ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 2 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u3	On 12 February, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Health - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 12 of 12 February 2021, laying down further urgent provisions on the containment of the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 13 February 2021 Dear President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decrees dated 12 February 2021, has accepted the resignation resigned on 26 January 2021 by the Cabinet chaired by prof. Giuseppe Conte, as well as the resignation from their respective positions resigned by the Subsecretaries of State. Having accepted the mandate to form the Government conferred on me on February 3, 2021, the President of the Republic appointed me, by his own decree on February 12, 2021, President of the Council of Ministers. The President of the Republic, on my proposal, appointed Mr Federico D'INCA', Mr Vittorio COLAO, Mr Renato BRUNETTA, Mr Mariastella GELMINI, Mr Maria Rosaria CARFAGNA, Mr Fabiana DADONE, Professor Elena BONETTI, Senator Erika STEFANI and Mr Massimo GARAVAGLIA as Ministers without portfolio. Ministers were also appointed: - for foreign affairs and international cooperation, Mr Luigi DI MAIO; - for the Interior, the State Councillor Luciana LAMORGESE; - for justice, Professor Marta CARTABIA; - for defence, Mr Lorenzo GUERINI; - for the Economy and Finance, Dr Daniele FRANCO; - for economic development, Mr Giancarlo GIORGETTI; - for agricultural food and forestry policies, Senator Stefano PATUANELLI; - for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Professor Roberto CINGOLANI; - for infrastructure and transport, Professor Enrico GIOVANNI; - for labour and social policies, Mr Andrea ORLANDO; - for education, Professor Patrizio BIANCHI; - for university and research, Professor Maria Cristina MESSA; - for cultural goods and activities and tourism, Mr Dario FRANCESCHINI; - for health, Mr Roberto SPERAAN. Moreover, the President of the Republic, by his own decree today, adopted on my proposal and after consulting the Council of Ministers, appointed the President of the Chamber of the Council of State Roberto GAROFOLI State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, acting as Secretary of the Council of Ministers. Finally, by my decree today, after consulting the Council of Ministers, I gave the Ministers without portfolios, pursuant to Article 9 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, the following tasks: to Mr Federico D'INCA', relations with Parliament; to Dr Vittorio COLAO, technological innovation and digital transition; to Mr Renato BRUNETTA, public administration; to Mr Mariastella GELMINI, regional affairs and self-government; to Mr Maria Rosaria CARFAGNA, South and territorial cohesion; to Mr Fabiana DADONE, youth policies; to Professor Elena BONETTI, equal opportunities and family; to Senator Erika STEFANI, disability; to Mr Massimo GARAVAGLIA, coordination of initiatives in the field of tourism. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders defined the organisation of the debate on trust in the Government and approved the schedule of proceedings until 26 February. Scanning of the debate on confidence is as follows: after the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, the sitting will be suspended to allow the text of the programmatic declarations to be handed over to the House of Deputies, convened at 11.30 a.m. The sitting will resume at 12.30 p.m. with the debate, for which six hours and forty minutes have been allocated to the groups. After the first three hours of debate, the sitting will be suspended from 3.30 p.m. to 4.15 p.m. for the House's sanitisation. The debate will continue from 4.15 p.m. to be concluded at approximately 7.55 p.m. Further sanitization of the House will follow. The President of the Council of Ministers' reply and the final explanations of vote will take place from 8.40 p.m. Then follows the roll call for the vote of confidence orientally at 23 o'clock. All stages of the sitting are scheduled for direct television transmission, with the exception of the call. The follow-up of the current week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the decree-law containing further provisions for the containment of the Covid-19. The debate on this latter measure will begin at the sitting on Wednesday 24 February. The timetable for next week's work, with meetings until Friday 26, if necessary, also provides for the discussion of the decree-law extending deadlines, currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies. At the opening of the session on Wednesday 24 February, the figure of Franco Marini will be commemorated and the Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met yesterday with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until February 26: [[Wednesday 17 February h. 10 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers and subsequent debate]] [[Wednesday, February 24, h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 2066 - Decree-Law n. 2, Further provisions contained COOVID-19 and elections 2021 (decades on 15 March) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 183/2020, Extension terms (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 1 March) Thursday 25 " h. 9,30 Friday 26 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 183/2020, Extension of time limits) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission of the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion on trust in the Government (6 hours and 40 minutes) [[M5S 1 h. 20' L-SP-PSd'Az 56' FIBP-UDC 52' PD 40' Mixed 42' FdI 50' IV-PSI 30' Eu-MAIE-CD 24' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 24']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2066 (Decree-Law No 2, Additional provisions contained COOVID-19 and elections 2021) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 33' Mixed 27' FdI 26' IV-PSI 25' Eu-MAIE-CD 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 183/2020, Extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' PD 33' Mixed 27' FdI 26' IV-PSI 25' Eu-MAIE-CD 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u7	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion that I invite the Assembly to join in the memory of President Franco Marini. Abruzzi of origins, of adoption crime, firstborn of seven brothers in a family of modest economic conditions, Franco Marini was a true man of the people, all his life at the service of the citizens. A trade unionist of race, always ready to confront, even hard, when necessary, but still aimed to build, never to fuel conflicts. A man of few words, but every time concrete, authoritative and incisive. A passionate politician, strong of an innovative vision of the world of work, but attentive and sensitive to the demands of the workers and to the defence of their rights; those rights that Franco Marini has always supported, with the determination of a wolf and with the proud tenacity of an alpine, which were his distinctive trait, along with that dodged, reserved character, sometimes burbera, which however concealed a generous spirit, loyal and rare moral integrity. Historical exponent of democratic Catholics, he led for many years the most reforming wing, and then handed down its cultural and political heritage in the experience of the People's Party and therefore of the Democratic Party. The union commitment of a lifetime and the decisive role assumed at the head of the CISL, in an era of great social conflicts and strong tensions in the field of collective bargaining, led him to the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security in the seventh Andreotti Government: an assignment that Franco Marini knew how to interpret with rigour, responsibility and deep respect for the institutions. For the first time elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1992, with a veritable plebiscite of votes, testifying to its strong bond with the territory, Franco Marini was parliamentary for six legislatures, two of which in the Senate. On 29 April 2006, on the occasion of his election as President of this Assembly, at the beginning of a parliamentary term that was supposed to be complex in the parliamentary balance, he recalled: The strength of a mature democracy like ours also lies in knowing how to converge together on the best decisions and choices for our country; doing so without the fear of losing our identities, which are a precious asset, and the same responsibilities that have majority and opposition. It is a reflection that, today as then, faithfully reflects his thought, impartiality and the wisdom with which he led the Senate and his tireless commitment to the consolidation of a parliamentary dialogue democracy, based on the values of the Republic and the Constitution. His disappearance leaves a great void in Italian politics. In renewing to the family of President Franco Marini my personal condolences, together with the closeness of the Assembly and of the entire Senate of the Republic, I invite you to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u8	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers and subsequent debate. I'm warning you the broadcast is on. Before giving the floor to the President of the Council, Professor Draghi, interpreting - I believe - the sentiment of all the senators, I would like to wish Pier Ferdinando Casini a prompt recovery, since today he cannot participate in the work, because he is in hospital. [[Applause.]] I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u9	Mr President, the first thought I would like to share in asking for your trust is our national responsibility. The main duty to which we are all called, first and foremost as President of the Council, is to fight the pandemic by all means and to safeguard the lives of our fellow citizens. A trench where we all fight together: the virus is the enemy of all, and it is in the emotional memory of those who are no longer there that our commitment grows. Before explaining my programme, I would like to address another thought, shared and supportive, to all those who suffer from the economic crisis that the pandemic has triggered, to those who work in the most affected or stopped activities for health reasons. We know their reasons, we are aware of their enormous sacrifice; we are committed to doing everything possible so that they can return, as soon as possible, in the recognition of their rights, to the normality of their occupations. We are committed to informing citizens sufficiently in advance - although compatible with the rapid evolution of the pandemic - of any change in the rules. [[Applause]] The government will reform, but it will also deal with the emergency. There is no before and after; we are aware of Cavour's teaching: The reforms carried out in time, instead of weakening authority, strengthen it, but in the meantime, we must take care of those who suffer now, those who lose their jobs or are forced to close down their activities. In thanking the President of the Republic once again for the honour of the office I have been given, I would like to say to you that there has never been - in my long professional life - such an intense moment of emotion and such ample responsibility. [[Applause]] I also thank my predecessor, Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause. Comments]] , which faced a situation of health and economic emergency as never had happened by the unity of Italy. Much has been said about the nature of this government. Republican history has dispensed an endless variety of formulas. In the respect that we all have for the institutions and for the proper functioning of a representative democracy, an Executive such as the one I have the honour to preside over, especially in a dramatic situation such as the one we are living in, it is simply the Government of the country, it does not need any adjective that defines it, it sums up the will, the awareness and the sense of responsibility of the political forces that support it to which it has been asked a renunciation for the good of all, of their electors and of the voters of other groups, also of the opposition, of the citizens all. This is the republican spirit of a government that is born in an emergency situation, gathering the high indication of the Head of State. The growth of an economy depends not only on economic factors: it depends on the institutions, on the confidence of citizens towards them, on the sharing of values and hopes, the same factors that determine the progress of a country. It has been said and written that this Government has been made necessary by the failure of politics. Allow me to disagree. Nobody takes a step back from their identity [[Applause]] , but if anything, in a new and completely unusual perimeter of collaboration, he makes one further, in responding to the needs of the country and in approaching the daily problems of families and businesses that well know when it is time to work together without prejudice and without rivalry. In the most difficult moments of our history, the highest and noble expression of politics has been translated into courageous choices, into visions that until a moment before seemed impossible, because before any membership comes the duty of citizenship. We are citizens of a country that asks us to do everything possible without wasting time and without jeopardising even the smallest effort to combat the pandemic and combat the economic crisis. And today we, politicians and technicians who form this new Executive, are simply all Italian citizens, honored to serve our country, all equally aware of the task that has been entrusted to us. This is the republican spirit of my government. The duration of the governments in Italy was on average short, but this did not prevent, at even more dramatic times, from making decisive choices for our future. The quality of decisions and the courage of visions count, not the days of time: the time of power can be wasted even in the sole concern to preserve it. Today, as happened to the governments of the immediate post-war period, we have the possibility, or rather the responsibility, of starting a new reconstruction, but above all, thanks to the conviction that the future of the successive generations would be better for all, in mutual trust, in national brotherhood, in the pursuit of a civic and moral ransom, in that reconstruction they collaborated ideologically distant political forces, if not opposed. I am sure that even this new reconstruction will not fail, in the distinction of roles and identities, its contribution. I have often wondered whether we - and I am referring first of all to my generation - have done and are doing for them everything our grandparents and fathers did for us, sacrificing themselves beyond measure. They are our children, our grandchildren, our future. This is a question that we must ask ourselves when we do not do everything we need to promote human capital, education, school, university and culture. It is a question to which we must give concrete and urgent answers when we disappoint our young people, forcing them to emigrate from a country that too often does not know how to evaluate the merit and has not yet achieved an effective gender equality. It is a question that we cannot evade when we increase our public debt without having spent and invested at the best resources that are always scarce. Every waste today is a wrong that we do to the next generations, a subtraction of their rights. I express before you, who are the elected representatives of the Italians, the hope that the desire and need to build a better future will wisely guide our decisions, in the hope that the young Italians who will take our place, here too, in this House, will thank us for our work and have nothing to reproach us for our selfishness. [[Applause]] This government is born in the wake of our country's membership as a founding member of the European Union and as the protagonist of the Atlantic Alliance, in the wake of the great Western democracies, in defense of their indispensable principles and values. Supporting this government means sharing the irreversibility of choosing the euro and the prospect of an increasingly integrated European Union [[Applause]] which will arrive at a common public budget, capable of supporting countries in periods of recession. The national states remain the reference of our citizens, but in the areas defined by their weakness they surrender national sovereignty to acquire shared sovereignty. [[Applause. Comments]] Indeed, in being convinced of Europe's destiny, we are even more Italian and even closer to our territories of origin and residence. We must be proud of the Italian contribution to the growth and development of the European Union. Without Italy there is no Europe, but outside Europe there is less Italy. There is no sovereignty in solitude; there is only the deception of what we are, in the oblivion of what we have been and in the denial of what we might be. We are a great economic and cultural power. I have always been amazed and a little saddened, in recent years, to note how often the judgment of others on our country is better than ours. We must be more proud, more just and more generous towards our country. [[Applause]] and recognize its many primates, including the profound wealth of our social capital and our volunteering, which others envy us. Since the outbreak, there have been - and official data underestimate the phenomenon - 92,522 deaths and 2,725,106 citizens affected by the virus. At this time 2,002.074 are hospitalized in intensive care. [[Comments.]] That's 2.074. Sorry. There are 259 deaths among health workers and 118,856 are those infected, demonstrating a huge sacrifice sustained with generosity and commitment. These figures have put a strain on the national health system, subtracting personnel and resources from the prevention and treatment of other diseases, with heavy consequences on the health of many Italians. Life expectancy due to the pandemic has decreased: up to four or five years in the areas of greatest contagion and one and a half years or two for the whole Italian population. A similar decline was not recorded in Italy since World Wars. The spread of the virus has also had very serious consequences on the economic and social fabric of our country, with significant impacts on employment, especially that of young people and women: a phenomenon destined to worsen when the ban on dismissal will cease. Poverty has also been aggravated. Data from the Caritas listening centers, which compare the period May-September 2019 with the same period of 2020, show that from one year to the next the incidence of the new poor goes from 31 to 45 percent. Almost one in two people who today turn to Caritas do so for the first time. Among the new poor, in particular, the weight of families with children, of women, of young people, of Italians, who today are the majority compared to last year, and of people of working age, of groups of citizens so far never touched by poverty. The total number of hours of cash-integration for health emergencies from 1 April to 31 December last year exceeds four million. Employment fell by 444,000 in 2020, but the decline focused on term contracts and self-employed workers. The pandemic has so far hit mainly young people and women; it is selective unemployment, but it could soon start hitting workers with permanent contracts. Serious and with few historical precedents are the effects on inequality. In the absence of public intervention, a measure of inequality in income distribution, called the Gini coefficient, would have increased by four percentage points in the first half of 2020 compared to 34% in 2019. This increase would have been greater than the cumulative increase during the two recent recessions. However, the increase in inequality has been mitigated by the protection networks in our social security system, in particular by the measures that have strengthened them since the beginning of the pandemic. However, the fact remains that our social security system is unbalanced, not sufficiently protecting people with fixed-term jobs and the self-employed. The forecasts published last week by the European Commission indicate that, although the European recession was less severe in 2020 than expected (therefore already in just over a year the levels of pre-pandemic economic activity should be recovered), in Italy this will not happen before the end of 2022, in a context in which before the pandemic we had not yet fully recovered the effects of the crises of 2008-2009 and 2011-2013. The spread of Covid has caused profound wounds in our communities, not only in terms of health and economics, but also in terms of culture and education. The girls and boys especially those of secondary schools of second degree, had the school service through distance teaching, which, while guaranteeing the continuity of the service, cannot fail to create discomfort and highlight inequalities. One fact clarifies the current dynamics: compared with 1,696,300 secondary school students of second grade, in the first week of February only 1,039 million students, 61 percent of the total, had provided the service through distance teaching. This unprecedented emergency situation requires that we take a path of unity and joint commitment with determination and speed. The vaccination plan. Scientists in only twelve months have performed a miracle; it had never happened that a new vaccine could be produced in less than a year. Our first challenge is to get it in sufficient quantities and distribute it quickly and efficiently. We need to mobilize all the energy we can count on, using Civil Protection, the Armed Forces, the many volunteers. [[Applause]] We must not limit vaccinations within specific places, which are often not yet ready. We have a duty to make them possible in all the facilities available, public and private, taking advantage of the experience made with swabs, which, after an initial delay, were also allowed outside the narrow circle of approved hospitals, and above all learning from countries that moved faster than we, immediately having adequate quantities of vaccines. Speed is essential not only to protect individuals and their social communities, but also now to reduce the potential for other variants of the virus. On the basis of the experience of the past few months, we must open a wide-ranging debate on the reform of our health care. The central point is to strengthen and redesign territorial health, creating a strong network of basic services: community homes, community hospitals, consultors, mental health centers, centres of proximity against health poverty. [[Applause]] This is the way to make what are called the essential levels of care truly enforceable and to entrust acute, post-accustomed and rehabilitation health needs to hospitals. The "home as the main place of care" is now possible with telemedicine and integrated home care. As far as school is concerned, not only do we need to return quickly to a normal school schedule, even if it is distributed over different time slots, but we need to do everything we can, in the most appropriate way, to recover the hours of teaching lost last year. [[Applause]] , especially in the regions of the Mezzogiorno, where distance learning has encountered more difficulties. [[Applause]] The design of the annual school curriculum needs to be revised and the school timetable aligned with the needs of experience from the beginning of the pandemic. The return to school must take place safely. [[Applause]] It is necessary to invest in a cultural transition from internationally recognised humanist identity heritage. We are called to draw an educational path that combines the necessary adherence to the required quality standards, also in the European panorama, with grafts of new subjects and methodologies, combining scientific skills with those of the humanistic areas of multilingualism. Finally, it is necessary to invest in the training of teaching staff in order to align the educational supply with the demand of the new generations. From this point of view, special attention should be paid to technical institutes. In France and Germany, for example, these institutions are an important pillar of the education system. It has been estimated in about three million, in the five years 2019-2023, the needs of graduates of technical institutes in the digital and environmental area. The National Resilience Recovery Programme allocates 1.5 billion to technical institutes, twenty times the financing of a normal pre-pandemic year. [[Applause]] Without innovating the current organisation of these schools, we risk that those resources will be wasted. Globalisation, digital transformation and ecological transition have been changing the labour market for years and require continuous adjustments in university education. At the same time, it is necessary to invest adequately in research, without excluding basic research, aiming at excellence, i.e. internationally recognised research, for the impact it has on new knowledge and new models in all scientific fields. When we get out of the pandemic, what world are we gonna find? Some think that the tragedy in which we have lived for more than twelve months has been similar to a long power failure: sooner or later the light returns and everything starts again as before. Science, but merely common sense, suggests that it may not be so. The warming of the Planet has direct effects on our lives and our health, from pollution to hydrogeological fragility, to the raising of the level of the seas that could make large areas of some coastal cities no longer habitable. The space that some megalopolis have taken from nature may have been one of the causes of the transmission of the virus from animals to humans. [[Applause]] As Pope Francis said: "Natural tragedies are the earth's response to our ill-treatment. And I think that if I asked the Lord what he thought, I don't think he would tell me that it was a good thing: we ruined the Lord's work. [[Applause]] Protecting the future of the environment, reconciling it with progress and social well-being requires a new approach: digitisation, agriculture, health, energy, aerospace, cloud computing, schools and education, protection of territories, biodiversity, global warming and the greenhouse effect are different faces of a multifaceted challenge that focuses on the ecosystem in which all our actions will develop. Also in our country some models of growth will have to change: for example the tourism model, an activity that before the pandemic represented 14% of the total of our economic activities. Companies and workers in that sector must be helped out of the disaster created by the pandemic. [[Applause]] But without forgetting that tourism will have a future if we do not forget that it lives on our ability to preserve, that is, not to waste, the environment, cities of art, places and traditions that successive generations, through many centuries, have been able to preserve and handed down to us. Getting out of the pandemic will not be like rekindling the light: this observation that scientists do not stop repeating us has an important consequence. The government will have to protect workers, all workers, but it would be a mistake to protect all economic activities indifferently; some will have to change, even radically and the choice of which activities to protect and which to accompany in the change is the difficult task that economic policy will have to face in the coming months. The ability to adapt our production system and unprecedented interventions have allowed us to preserve the workforce in a dramatic year. There have been seven million workers who have benefited from wage integration instruments, for a total, as I said before, of four billion hours. Thanks to these measures, supported by the European Commission through the SURE programme, it was possible to limit the negative effects on employment. Young people, women and self-employed people paid the highest price. First of all, we must think about them when we are dealing with a business and labour support strategy. [[Applause]] , a strategy to coordinate the sequence of interventions on labour, credit and capital. Active labour policies are central. In order for them to be operational immediately, the existing instruments, such as the redeployment allowance, need to be improved by strengthening the training policies of employed and unemployed workers. The staff and digital resources of employment centres in agreement with the regions should also be strengthened. This project is already part of the National Recovery and Resilience Programme, but it should be anticipated immediately. Climate change, like the pandemic, penalises certain productive sectors without any expansion in other sectors that can compensate. We must therefore ensure this expansion and we must do so immediately. Economic policy's response to climate change and pandemics will have to be a combination of structural policies that facilitate innovation, financial policies that facilitate companies' access to capital and credit, and expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that facilitate investment and create demand for new sustainable activities that have been created. [[Applause]] We want to leave a good planet, not just a good coin. The mobilization of all the energies of the country in its revival cannot be without the involvement of women. The gender gap in employment rates in Italy remains among the highest in Europe: around 18 points on a European average of 10. Since the post-war period, the situation has certainly improved, but this increase has not gone hand in hand with an equally evident improvement in women's career conditions. Italy today has one of the worst pay gap between genders in Europe, as well as a chronic shortage of women in senior managerial positions. True gender equality does not mean a pharisaic respect for pink quotas required by law [[Applause]] ; calls for a level playing field between genders. We intend to work in this direction, aiming at a rebalancing of the wage gap and a welfare system that allows women to devote to their careers the same energies as their fellow men, overcoming the choice between family or work. [[Applause]] Ensuring a level playing field also means ensuring that everyone has equal access to the training of those key skills that will increasingly enable them to become a career; digital, technological and environmental. We therefore intend to invest economically, but above all culturally, because more and more young women choose to form themselves in the areas on which we intend to relaunch the country. Only in this way will we be able to ensure that the best resources are involved in the development of the country. Increased employment, primarily for women, is an essential objective in the Mezzogiorno. Well-being, self-determination, legality and security are closely linked to the increase in female employment in the Mezzogiorno. Developing the capacity to attract private, national and international investment is essential to generate income, create jobs, reverse demographic decline and depopulation of internal areas. But in order to achieve this, we need to create an environment where legality and security are always guaranteed. There are also specific instruments, such as tax credit and other measures to be agreed at European level. In order to be able to spend and spend well, using the funds that the National Recovery and Resilience Programme gives to the Mezzogiorno, it is necessary to strengthen the southern administrations, also paying attention to the experience of a past that has often disappointed hope. With regard to public investment, infrastructure investments must be invested in the technical, legal and economic preparation of civil servants, in order to enable administrations to plan, design and accelerate investments with certainty of time, costs and in full compatibility with the sustainability and growth guidelines set out in the Programme. Particular attention should be paid to investments in the maintenance of works and in the protection of the territory, encouraging the use of predictive techniques based on the latest developments in artificial intelligence and digital technologies. The private sector must be invited to participate in the realisation of public investment, providing more than finance, expertise, efficiency and innovation in order to accelerate the implementation of the projects in compliance with the expected costs. Next generation EU: The strategy for Next generation projects can only be transversal and synergistic, based on the principle of co-benefits, i.e. with the ability to impact multiple sectors simultaneously in a coordinated manner. We will have to learn to prevent rather than repair, they are not deploying all the technologies at our disposal, but also investing in the awareness of the new generations that each action has a consequence. As has been said several times, we will have about 210 billion available over a six-year period. These resources will have to be spent aiming at improving the growth potential of our economy. The share of additional loans that we will require through the main component of the Programme, the Recovery and Resilience Facility, will also need to be modulated according to public finance objectives. The previous Government has already done a great deal of work on the National Recovery and Resilience Programme. We need to deepen and complete that work which, including the necessary talks with the European Commission, would have a very short deadline, at the end of April. The guidelines that Parliament will express in the next few days to comment on the draft Programme presented by the outgoing Government will be of fundamental importance in the preparation of its final version. I want to summarize here the orientation of the new government. The Missions of the Programme may be re-modulated and re-accomplished, but they will remain those set out in the previous documents of the outgoing Government, i.e. innovation, digitisation, competitiveness and culture; ecological transition; infrastructure for sustainable mobility; training and research; social equity, gender, generational and territorial; health and its production chain. We will have to strengthen the Programme first of all with regard to the strategic objectives and reforms that accompany them. Let's see the strategic goals first. The Programme has so far been built on the basis of high-level objectives and combining project proposals into missions, components and project lines. In the coming weeks, we will strengthen the strategic dimension of the programme, in particular with regard to the objectives of renewable energy production, air and water pollution, the fast rail network, energy distribution networks for electric vehicles, the production and distribution of hydrogen, digitisation, broadband and 5G communications networks. The role of the State and the scope of its interventions will have to be carefully assessed. The State's task is to use the levers of research and development expenditure, education, training, regulation, incentives and taxation. [[Applause]] Based on this strategic vision, the Programme will indicate objectives for the next decade and longer term, with an intermediate stage for the final year of the Next generation EU, 2026. It will not be enough to list projects that you want to complete in the coming years. We will have to say where we are going in 2026 and what we are aiming for 2030 and 2050, when the European Union intends to achieve zero net CO2 and climate-altering gas emissions. We will select projects and initiatives consistent with the strategic objectives of the Programme, paying close attention to their feasibility over the six years of the Programme. We will clarify the role of the third sector and the contribution of individuals to the National Programme through leverage financing mechanisms. We'll emphasize the role of the school. In health we will have to use these projects to lay the foundations for strengthening territorial medicine, as I have just said, and telemedicine. The governance of the Recovery and Resilience Programme is embedded in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, with the very close collaboration of the relevant Ministries, which define policies and projects in the sector. Parliament will be constantly informed about both the overall installation and the sector policies. [[Applause]] Finally, the chapter on reforms, which I shall now address separately. As you know, the Next generation EU envisages reforms. Some have been dealing with problems that have been open for decades, but that is why they should not be forgotten. Among these, the certainty of public investment rules and plans, factors that limit investment, both Italian and foreign. In addition, competition. I will ask the Competition Authority and the market to produce its proposals in this area quickly, as required by law. In recent years, our attempts to reform the country have not been completely absent, but their concrete effects have been limited. Perhaps the problem lies in the way in which we have often drawn reforms, with partial interventions, dictated by the urgency of the moment, without a comprehensive vision, which takes time and competence. [[Applause]] In the case of taxation, for example, we must not forget that the tax system is a complex mechanism, the parts of which are linked to each other. It's not a good idea to change taxes one at a time. [[Applause]] Overall intervention also makes it more difficult for specific pressure groups to push the government to take written measures to benefit them. Moreover, experience from other countries teaches that tax reforms should be entrusted to experts, who know well what can happen if a tax is changed. For example, Denmark, in 2008, appointed a committee of tax experts. The committee met with the political parties and the social partners and, only after that, presented its report to Parliament. The project included a cut in the tax burden of 2 points of GDP. The maximum marginal rate of income tax was reduced, while the exemption threshold was raised. A similar method was followed in Italy in the early seventies of the last century, when the Government entrusted to a commission of experts, including Bruno Visentini and Cesare Cosciani, the task of redesigning our tax system, which had not been modified since the times of the reform Vanoni of 1951. It is up to that committee to introduce the income tax of individuals and the substitute tax for income from employees. A tax reform marks, in each country, a decisive step: it indicates priorities; it gives certainty; it offers opportunities. It is the architrave of budgetary policy. [[Applause]] In this context, a thorough review of the Irpef must be considered, with the dual objective of simplifying and rationalising the structure of the levy, gradually reducing the tax burden and preserving progressiveness. [[Applause]] A renewed and reinforced commitment to combating tax evasion will also be an effective means of achieving these objectives. [[Applause]] The other reform that cannot be procrastinated is that of public administration. In the emergency, administrative action, at central level and in local and peripheral structures, has demonstrated the capacity - as we say today - for resilience and adaptation thanks to a widespread commitment to distance work and the intelligent use of the technologies at its disposal, but the fragility of the system of public administrations and services of collective interest is, however, a reality that needs to be addressed quickly. Particularly urgent is the disposal of the setback accumulated during the pandemic. The offices will be asked to draw up a plan for the disposal of the setback and to communicate it to the citizens. The reform will have to move on two directives: investments in connectivity, with the creation of efficient platforms and easy to use by citizens who can make their voice heard; continuous updating of the competences of public employees, including selecting in recruitment the best skills and attitudes in a fast, efficient and safe way, without forcing tens of thousands of candidates to long expectations. In the field of justice, the actions to be taken are mainly those within the context of the European Union's expectations. In the country-specific recommendations addressed to Italy in the years 2019 and 2020, the Commission, while acknowledging the progress made in recent years, urges us to increase the efficiency of the civil justice system by implementing and facilitating the application of the insolvency reform decrees, ensuring a more efficient functioning of the courts, facilitating the disposal of the backlog and better management of workloads, adopting simpler procedural rules, covering the vacant posts of administrative staff, reducing the differences that exist in the management of cases from court to court and, finally, promoting the repression of corruption. In our international relations, this Government will be convincedly European and Atlanticist, in line with Italy's historical anchors: European Union, Atlantic Alliance, United Nations. [[Applause]] Anchors that we have chosen since the post-war period, in a path that has brought well-being, security and international prestige. Our vocation for effective multilateralism, based on the irreplaceable role of the United Nations, is profound. Our attention remains strong and our focus is on areas of natural priority interest such as the Balkans, the enlarged Mediterranean, with particular attention to Libya, the Eastern Mediterranean and Africa. The most recent years have seen a growing push for the construction of privileged bilateral and plurilateral relations networks in Europe. It is precisely the pandemic that has revealed the need to pursue a more intensive exchange with the partners with whom our economy is most integrated. For Italy this will involve the need to better structure and strengthen the strategic and indispensable relationship with France and Germany, but it will also be necessary to consolidate the collaboration with States with which we share a specific Mediterranean sensitivity and the sharing of issues such as the environment and migration (Spain, Greece, Malta and Cyprus). We will also continue to work towards a more virtuous dialogue between the European Union and Turkey. Italy will work to feed mechanisms of dialogue with the Russian Federation, but we follow with concern what is happening in this and in other countries where citizens' rights are often violated. [[Applause]] We are also following with concern the increase in tensions in Asia around China. Another challenge will be the negotiation of the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, in which we will pursue a decisive strengthening of the balance between the responsibilities of the countries of first entry and effective solidarity. [[Applause]] Crucial will also be the construction of a European return policy for those who do not have the right to international protection, alongside full respect for the rights of refugees. [[Applause]] The advent of the new American administration suggests a more cooperative change of method towards Europe and the traditional allies. I am confident that our relations and cooperation will only intensify. From last December and until the end of 2021 Italy holds the presidency of the G20 for the first time. The program that will involve the entire government group revolves around three pillars: people, planet, prosperity. Italy will have the responsibility to lead the group towards the exit of the pandemic and to relaunch green and sustainable growth for the benefit of all. It will be for us, as I have already said, to rebuild and rebuild better. Together with the United Kingdom, with which we have the parallel presidencies of the G7 and G20 this year, we will focus on sustainability and green transition in the perspective of the next Conference of the Parties on Climate Change, with particular attention to actively involving the younger generations through the event "Youth4Climate". Let us come to the conclusions: this is the third government of the legislature. There is nothing to suggest that it can do well without the strong support of this Parliament. It is a support that is not based on political alchemy, but on the spirit of sacrifice with which women and men have faced the last year, on their vibrant desire to be reborn and return stronger, and on the enthusiasm of young people who want a country capable of fulfilling their dreams. Today unity is not an option, it is a duty. [[Applause]] Unity is a duty, but it is a duty guided by what I am sure unites us all: love for Italy. [[Live and prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u10	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, in order to allow the President of the Council to go to the Chamber of Deputies and deliver the text of the programmatic declarations, the sitting is suspended and will resume at 12.30 p.m. with the speeches under discussion on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers according to the allocation of time already communicated. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.09 p.m. and resumed at 12.34 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I remember that direct television broadcasting is in progress.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic, in an exceptional context of a system crisis on the health, economic and ultimately political profile, has seen you, President Draghi, the best personality that the country could express in order to face the enormous challenges of the present and the near future at national, European and global level. And the large, transversal and composite parliamentary majority, who today is about to vote for the government that you chaired, clearly shared the choice of President Mattarella. But the solution of the crisis in full emergency does not lift this Parliament, as a direct expression of the will of the people, from the reflection on the inability to be self-sufficient in expressing a Government for the country. I therefore believe that all political and institutional actors are now called upon to take a deep responsibility for the choice of behaviour and rules that honor parliamentary democracy. In other words, it is not good all that ends well, even if it is good - and it is important to reiterate this - that you are here today, at the Government's desk, representing Italy in European fora and assuming for all of us the Presidency of the G20. The government to which we are called today to give confidence is born to correspond to the health and economic needs of the pandemic emergency. On the economic front, one of its most urgent tasks is to equip the country with a national recovery and resilience plan and the necessary tools for the greatest investment of public resources in the coming decades to reflect positively on the coming generations, on those young people to whom the European recovery plan Next generation EU is dedicated. In fact, it is on their shoulders that it will weigh, for the most part, the burden of repaying the additional huge debt that we are taking responsibility for in these months. At the meeting in Rimini last August you indicated that education and more generally investment in young people, in which - always to continue to quote the words of then that perfectly reflect my feeling - the present situation makes imperative and urgent a massive investment of intelligence and financial resources. Yes, Mr President, it is imperative and urgent to combat and reduce as much as possible the dispersion of schooling: a phenomenon of worrying proportions in our country, among the highest in the European Union and which has become even more acute in the pandemic emergency. Equally imperative and urgent is that all research be promoted with adequate attention and public resources. This morning you said that we need to invest adequately in research without excluding basic research, aiming at excellence, i.e. internationally recognised research for the impact it has on new knowledge and models in all scientific fields. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is not enough not to exclude basic research, but it is necessary to defend it and promote it as an irreplaceable forge of new ideas never imagined before, of new cognitive paths and of future innovative applications. It is impossible today to imagine any recovery plan without putting the research, the study at the centre. Without it today we would still be wandering in the dark in facing the pandemic. Suffice it to say that the father of one of the innovative vaccines developed thanks to the use of the messenger RNA, approved and used throughout Europe, is Ugur Sahin: a scientist who was only a few years ago the winner of an important funding for basic research by the European Research Council. It is by guaranteeing the freedom to study in order to know the unknown and to engage in an idea to understand the complexity that is created a public space where trust increases and young people remain, rather than feel forced to flee. Knowledge grows in quantity and quality and uncertainty lags behind in the face of the strength of the evidence that is advancing. But for decades, Mr President, the freedom to seek in our country has been restrained, underfinanced and subjected to any kind of diversion or stagnation. Our country is the country of excellence spread in every sector, in every corner of Italy - from the North to the South - but it is also the country of abandoned research and contempt for public research, free, that puts ideas in competition, because without competition and competition ideas are emptied and passions are extinguished. Ours is also the country of the many senseless prohibitions and regulatory obstacles that our fellow European researchers do not have and whose removal at no cost would already be an act of achieving normality. In recent years I have seen the closure and dissolution of top-notch research groups due to lack of funds and organization; I have seen scholars from universities, CNRs and other prestigious research bodies forced to pay for the repair of electrical installations or laboratory air conditioners in order to move forward in their studies. I ask you, Mr President, to defend and promote research in all areas - from humanistic to scientific - in the only way possible, keeping it free, open and competitive according to the simplest and most important principles of public ethics. Only then can we hold back and attract the best minds. Only then will we be able to fill the gap with the other European countries that have twice as many researchers as we do. Only then will we have young enthusiasts in our country. Research and education are among the sectors with the highest added value in the medium and long term, with returns not only economic, but also of increasing the social, cultural and cognitive capital of a country. Dear President, I would like to close by quoting your words once again, but I would like to remind you that, in order to ensure that the policies financed and the action of the Government are credible in the eyes of the citizens and of the world that observes us, public investment in research and not only cannot be without transparency and sharing, always necessary, but especially today - I quote his words - that the discretion that often characterizes the emergency is accompanied by choices destined to project their effects in the years to come. Well, in designing the policies of the coming decades I hope that the orientation of this Government is to reform even deeply the existing to improve and support it, but without falling into the easy temptation to create, once again, new containers and extemporaneous organizational formulas in derogation from the ordinary rules. Mr President, preferential lanes in the name of proclaimed self-attributed and never measured by merit and free competition, the country is exhausted. Every scholar of any institutional and geographical origin must be guaranteed the same freedom to compete for the sources of public funding that policy will identify, so that the idea, the project, the group, the institution or the network of better bodies can win, first in the interest of taxpayers citizens, in order to really participate in the relaunch of this country. I have been a member of the community of scholars for thirty years and I know that it has all its strength, skills, skills and strong desire. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u12	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, like the whole country, I have listened carefully to your programme speech and I want to tell you that I have listened to what I expected and hoped to hear. I appreciated the sharing of the awareness that we are all living, each in its own role, a historical moment and that the greatest possible unity and determination are necessary to fight the pandemic and defend our fellow citizens from the emergencies that challenge us all, appreciating the work so far carried out by the previous Government chaired by Giuseppe Conte. I appreciate the definition of the nature of this government that you gave. He told us that this is the government of the country, that is, the one that must make each of us recover the republican spirit, indicating a new perimeter of collaboration, placing the duty of citizenship before political membership, in order to try to meet together as Italian citizens. This is an appeal which I feel I share strongly and which I hope will also be shared by my colleagues, senators and senators. I liked the call of his vision in that sentence that summarizes so much: young people will not have to reproach us for our selfishness. Personally, the theme that I am most passionate about, and on which I will measure the goodness of the work that we as parliamentarians are preparing to resume with the new government, is that - even you obviously touched - of the ecological transition that - as you have mentioned - is changing also the labour market and research. The challenges of the climate emergency and the consequences for the next increase in the level of the seas, the space taken from nature, the words of Pope Francis: you summarized the multifaceted challenge that sees the whole ecosystem at the centre. I would like to stress that such a consideration of the subject arises not only from an ecological sensitivity, but also from the awareness of the opportunities that technological challenges offer us and that we cannot fail to grasp also in terms of research, design, manufacturing capacity and industrial cycles, of terrestrial mobility and much more. With regard to the PNRR, you said that it was necessary to reformulate and reformulate what was done by the previous Government. There we touch on the subject of renewable energy, hydrogen - I very much liked your mention of hydrogen - innovation and - as you mentioned - we will work together, Government and Parliament, in the coming weeks with the European Union's interlocution. I believe that the energy issues will be crucial and the projects we are going to carry out will necessarily have to be transversal with respect to the six missions foreseen by the PNRR: competitiveness, green revolution, ecological transition, infrastructure for sustainable mobility, education and research, territorial cohesion. This point also reminds me mentally of the opportunity that we have to contribute to raising the South, because in the area of territorial cohesion it will be appropriate that the projects that we are going to achieve can fill the famous differences that still weigh between the parts of our country. I also remember that projects for the South represent a higher marginal increase than the contributions that we will also give to the other more developed areas of the country. For me, who have promoted a parliamentary intergroup on green hydrogen and energy communities, which currently gathers about 40 Members and senators, its call to hydrogen is crucial. We must ensure that the choice is made on so-called green hydrogen, i.e. from renewable sources in the future. [[Applause]] , betting on this as our European partners and competitors, such as France and Germany, are doing, and resisting the possible and probable pressures of visions anchored in the system of fossil sources, which I fear will not fail to make their voice heard. It is necessary to create hydrogen valleys, electrolytes, fuel cells; to significantly increase the production of electricity from renewable sources. We know that already before the entry of green hydrogen as a possible protagonist it is necessary to multiply for six times the production capacity of electricity from photovoltaic and wind (also off-shore, environmentally compatible) and therefore will be necessary a new policy of permitting. The time available to me is about to end and, therefore, I conclude my speech by calling to the attention also of the new Minister for technological innovation and digital transition the need to affect the regulatory and regulatory... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u14	Senator Buccarella, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u15	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: confidence, optimism, courage, dedication. We have heard this in your speech, Mr Draghi: the analysis of the problems, but above all the identification of the way to solve them. We are grateful for this message, because that is what the country needs. The crisis is serious, indeed it is very serious; but even the most promising opportunities can arise from a crisis, provided that one has the ability to look to the future and there is the determination to change things without giving up. We in Italy Viva are convinced that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are the best person to face this challenge, thanks to the experience you have gained in your prestigious positions and thanks to the programme you have been endowed with, for which our support can only be more convinced, since it puts at the heart of the agenda of Government many of the points that we ourselves, like Italia Viva, have carried on for years. The fact that you are choosing the right priorities is also demonstrated by the continuing decline in the spread of these days; a decline so large that it has already resulted in a significant saving in interest expenditure on public debt; massive savings, which can be translated into greater health resources, in the restructuring of schools or in several places of asylum. I mean, you can only have unimaginable shopping margins a few weeks ago. We are pleased, Mr President, that your statements clearly show that this Government is deeply pro-European and Atlanticist. The international chessboard is constantly evolving. That is why we strongly reaffirm that our natural framework is given by Europe and the Atlantic Alliance as an optimal starting point, as is the reaffirmation of our commitment to respect for civil rights, including with regard to our various international partners. We are also very convinced of the priority you have set out, Mr President, from the need to invest in the new generations. The conditions must be created for our country to become attractive again for young talents eager to work here. We must reverse the course that has taken so many of our promising young people abroad. Important measures are needed to restart growth in favour of employment, with attention also to the South. There are billions of public resources already allocated for years that must be unlocked, restarting the yards. Especially women have suffered a great deal from the crisis. Here his words are fully acceptable: female employment must be increased in all sectors of the economy, even in managerial frameworks, because no country can afford to neglect 50% of its intelligences. We are grateful to you, Mr President, for entrusting two strategic objectives for the future of our country to highly competent names. For a stronger Italy to emerge from this crisis we must focus on digital and green economy. Digitisation does not take away work, if anything it creates it and creates a future; an environment-friendly economy also produces new jobs. Digitalization and environment are two pillars of the Next generation EU. That is why we have insisted that the funds that Italy will receive from Europe should be spent in the best possible way, with professionalism and competence. His considerations on school, university and research are also excellent. It is important to put training, culture and knowledge at the heart of government action, aware that an effective vaccination plan is needed, which can immunize 50 million people in just a few weeks. Only if we succeed in achieving in a short time an immunity of flock that covers virtually the entire population will we be able to return to living and working in normality. Then there is civil justice, where a sharp change of pace is needed. You were right, Mr President, to assign this task also to the best of hands, the hands of a woman. I am sure that a justice that works better will be a central element for an Italy that can transform the crisis into an opportunity to revive. In conclusion, Mr President, we are optimistic that our country will be able to achieve an ambitious transition: from a country that is still retrograde to a country that is projected into the future, leading in Europe, a country that we are asking you today to build, with our support, with the support of this Parliament and with the courage of those who have the will to change things for the better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u17	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u18	Mr President, I am going to break the ice for my parliamentary group, which is the only one who will not vote for your trust, but I do so by wishing you good work. She knows how hard her work and the emotion with which she began, mistaken the numbers of intensive therapies (from 2,000 to 2 million), makes it clear. We wish you good work because we are a patriotic force that always cheers for Italy and, therefore, we do not hope for the failure of its Government. Of course, we would have liked you too, a very high-profile, highly esteemed person, with the international relations you have been able to build in your years of activity, to have passed through an election. Italy is the only case of democracy in which the Premier is not only not chosen by the citizens - as in this case - but has never passed through an electoral consultation. [[Applause]] I would say that this is a vulnus to democracy that would be somewhat correct. Mr President, we also expected a break after the words of the President of the Republic. We were waiting for a high-profile government, the government of the best. On the contrary, none of this: indeed, a great continuity with the governments that preceded it. Actually, it took a few hours to realize that. The order of Minister Hope, which in fact brings down an entire sector, that of the mountain, is not only against skiers, but severely penalizes all those operators who live in the mountains, like me, and would like to continue working on it. Mr President, instead of discontinuity, we have noticed rather a transhumance, as in the case of Minister Patuanelli, which goes from MISE to the Ministry of Agriculture. Look: Minister Patuanelli is probably one of the best of the previous government [[Applause]] and we who deal with agriculture welcome it with high expectations, because there are so many issues on your table, Minister. One of them is the defence of Made in Italy. I remember being Brothers of Italy and not another political force that wanted and brought to the Assembly the strong opposition to the Nutri-Score, which today puts in great difficulty our products. But there is also the issue of export and the issue of the fight against Italian soiling. For the truth, you, Minister, had gone ill with the previous budget law trying to reduce the resources to consortia and with the elimination of Italian soiling, but then the measure was promptly corrected by an amendment. We will have to pay attention to market infrastructure, logistics, innovation, but also, and above all, to the remuneration of farmers' work, because there is no talking about the supply chain when farmers then have incomes crushed by the large-scale distribution and do not find dignity in their work. [[Applause]] If we were to talk about duties, we would like to talk about duties of civilization, precisely to protect the Italian product; duties of civilization towards those countries that do not fulfil any of the safety standards that we apply and that guarantee food security to our citizens, but also those of the nations to which we export our products. Mr President-in-Office, I come back to you. It is true: you have called for unity as a duty and not an option, but I remind you that unity must never be at the expense of pluralism, democracy and tolerance of those who have a different idea than yours. You will see that when you turn to this part of the House, you will find much more fairness and loyalty than you will receive from so many parts of your majority, because we love this nation and we are a patriotic political force that has always put national interest ahead of our own. We will be here, bulwarks of democracy, for the benefit of those who today support it, perhaps someone for opportunism, someone else for conformism. But we will be here to defend Italy - as you say - whatever it takes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u19	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u20	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all, I would like to thank President Mattarella for giving a solid, impeccable solution, and with the best personality that Italy had at its disposal, for a difficult crisis and I am grateful to you for having accepted this task. We sometimes forget that a parliamentary Republic, with a President of the Republic like the current one - as has often been unanimously recognized - has the ability to find solutions that other countries sometimes envy us and that our parliamentary formula also allows the formation, when necessary, of governments of national unity or broad, very broad coalition, to face, sharing the weight of the possible unpopularity on several shoulders, the burden of reforms. I believe that it is a happy circumstance to find ourselves at this moment with a man of such personality and charism at the head of our country, with a formula that I believe - hopefully - of national unity. I shall confine myself, Mr President, to commenting on a passage towards the end of President Draghi's speech, which I quote: There is no sovereignty in solitude. There is only the deception of what we are, in the oblivion of what we have been and in the denial of what we might be. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you come into contact with a legislature born in 2018, which in both Chambers saw very deep, genuine and devastating debates and conflicts on the issues of Italy's international personality in Europe. I believe that the things you say will be well received by everyone because we have been the subject of experimentation in these five years of many variations looking for solutions other than those you suggest. We have also seen outside our borders the most powerful country - at least in the whole Western world - seeking a primacy for itself outside of a multilateral framework, which belonged to its tradition, without having found it and having diminished its role in the world context. You also added that we are a great economic and cultural power. I've always been amazed and a little saddened over the years to notice how often the judgment of others on our country is better than ours. We must be more proud, more just and more generous towards our country. I would like to hear it, in one of its upcoming public demonstrations, urge us all not to lower ourselves using - only us, the other countries do not do the equivalent - the expression "Italian solution" in a pejorative sense. It's a terminology we use very often. You have never heard a German, a French, an American or a Russian say that. You invite us to change our language too, if we want to be serenely proud of our country, to which you, with your ministers, to whom I wish - if you can still use this expression - from the bottom of your heart, will be able to prepare a worthy future for our children and grandchildren who otherwise would have every right to condemn us irreparably. Congratulations, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u21	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Democratic Party expresses its firm and loyal support for your Government, we recognise its authority and we recognize ourselves in the choices you propose to us because they are able to look appropriately beyond the two gigantic emergencies, the vaccination campaign and the recovery plan. You, President, inherit a very tired country - as you have rightly acknowledged - from the heavy health and economic crisis, but a country standing, thanks also to the work done so far, for which I want to express a real thanks to President Conte. Today a new phase opens, we need to understand very well, because it is a phase that rests - in my opinion - on a joint that is far from easy to interpret: we are in the wake of a phase break between the first (the concern for health) and the next (the hope of revenge, the hope of reconstruction). It is impossible to stand still: it is necessary to give immediately the idea to the Italians that we have the clear ideas and sustained step on the reconstruction, even if we do not stop taking care of their health. You have rightly wondered who and how it can be done, whether a technical or political government, in the sense of the broad social dimension of its choices; a government in time, the one useful to deal with the two major emergencies mentioned above, or a government that will also have to do something else. The government of the country can and must do this, moved by the spirit that you represented us. Italy does not have time to waste, it does not demand - be careful - just normal, it does not even pretend to spend the 200 billion of Europe well. Italy wants to return to dream and see every day that its collective dream becomes reality: nothing more similar, on paper, to a Government of all or almost everyone, guided by a feeling of national unity. But that is the answer of reason, and then precisely there is feeling and feeling does not admit reservations. That is why we, so different in this majority, have even more responsibilities. No cancellation of subjectivity, but from tomorrow we look for reasons that affect us in our diversity, thus going along parallel paths, or we put our most sincere energies to meet in those junctions from which the future of Italy passes. I choose the second path and I do it with my own history, which is the story of those who, with regard to European integration, choose the vision of Colorni: that of the construction of the European dream not as an imposition of an ideology on others, but as a progressive and true unity of all European peoples, of those who have spent several years with friends Luca Meldolesi and Marco Vitale to animate the dialogue between two cities symbol of Italian diversity - Milan and Naples - on policies to create enterprise, work and development; of those who believe that Carlo Cattaneo was right and not Massimo D'Azeglio, because the point is not even today to do Italy, but to free it, releasing the full administrative freedom of citizens. [[Applause]] Europe of persons, work, administrative freedom; People's Europe, President, as the only possible perspective in which the absolute priority is given to human capital and work as the conquest of new indispensable - and here its references to the process of integration - balance between opportunity and fragility; administrative freedom as full emancipation - I do not use this term at random - of citizens from a public administration too unwilling to make their interest, too unable to assess the impact of their choices. These are some of the junctions on which we must - I think - try to meet. Who wants to look at things from the left can have reservations about these priorities? I think not, dear friends and colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and LEU. I could say of many other priorities, but I remain on the political point today: to understand if we want to find a common approach. Do we try to be between us in a relationship of reciprocity, starting with this Parliament? Are we able, colleagues of the League, especially of the North, to promote that cultural step of integration between North and South, between institutional levels, between public and private, from which will inevitably pass also the sustainability of the great social processes of transition and ecological-digital transformation, which will be great social processes of transformation? If so - we must say so knowing that nobody here is naive - I think it is worth it. Speaking of sacrifices - and I concluded - someone said that when the gods want to punish us our desires come true. Each of us will deal with our punishment and find out. I am sure, however, that it will be easier for everyone to accept it, if we have done everything we can to wish for a better Italy, for women and for young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u24	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you could take note of this Government's formula: Government of technicians, government of politicians. I say: a government of politics; a government that has a large majority, an expression of the noblest part of politics. I say this because, perhaps, someone would like to treat these solutions as a hypothesis of transformation. Transformation, however, in the history of Italy is good and bad. It's like debt, Professor Draghi. You taught us that there is good debt and that there is bad debt. Good transformation was what led to the Unity of Italy. [[Applause]] You mentioned Cavour, 1852 and Rattazzi-Cavour. Then, again, the turning point of Salerno, Togliatti and De Gasperi and, if we want to go even further, the seventies, the years of terrorism, the difficult years in which this country, despite ideological divisions, managed to produce important laws: divorce, abortion, the establishment of the universal National Health Service: universal. This is our country and you did well to remember with pride, as President Monti did, that we Italians must be proud to be Italian. [[Applause]] Having said that, a senator of this Assembly, who loved to call himself a simple senator, but who I think has a Kubrickian vision of complexity, managed to make a very important interview - which marked the end of a Government, giving birth to the Count bis - expression of a gerbid transformation, in which he affirmed that Italy was running the risk of pursuing a drift that would take it out of Europe and fully registered in the countries of Visegràd. That senator also built part of this government. I must say that that interview was prophetic, salvific, perhaps "salvinifica," so that today the only courageous captains are able to make significant changes of course in their address and understand that the main address is that of the Italians. The League and its secretary must be recognized this. [[Applause]] This government must solve the problem of vaccinations; it must "decurize" the complexity put in place during this period; it must land - allow me the improper expression - the recovery plan and accompany all this path with reforms. I can talk about justice, but if I were to say what I feel in my heart, I would have to shut up because, unfortunately, the range in which you have to operate is very limited, although extremely effective. We must, in fact, have an impact on two and a half points of GDP, on the effectiveness of civil justice, where the bottleneck is located, which - as I say to Minister Cartabia - lies in the relationship between the first and second levels, that is to say that most of the decisions of the second grade are confirmation, for almost two thirds, of the decisions of the first care judge. In my heart, I cannot help but think that I come from a political history that wants the separation of careers. But today the real separation of careers is not between the magistrate judge and the magistrate investigator; the real separation is between the prosecutors and the short media-judicial circuit. [[Applause]] There's no way the investigation ends in the papers. Sooner or later there will be a Parliament that will deal with these issues. [[Applause]] I'm not quoting Palamara. I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u25	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u26	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish President Draghi, his entire Government and the Ministers good work. As chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I wish Stefano Patuanelli, our Minister of Reference, a good luck. The Committee on Agriculture, which I am honored to represent, has always cooperated across the board: we have almost always voted unanimously because we know that the primary interest is the interest of farmers. [[Applause]] Agriculture, which is experiencing a time of great difficulty, has historically been a great resource for this country. Agriculture has allowed us to survive and restart after the First and Second World Wars. During this year, when we were locked in the house with lockdown, we were able to appreciate those who fed us: the farmers, who are the real and great resource of this country. [[Applause]] It is right to remember that Italian agriculture is experiencing serious moments of difficulty; we are facing great challenges. We will certainly need resources and considerable attention because there are many dangers to Italian agriculture. Mr President, I would particularly like to address you, who have some important knowledge in Europe, and I quote, for example, the nutri-score (the traffic lights). It is not possible that our olive oil, Parma ham and Parmigiano Reggiano have the red kettle as dangerous foods and that Coca Cola Light has the green kettle. [[Applause]] Something's not working. We must go back because the skill of our farmers has ensured that the Mediterranean diet is recognised as an immaterial heritage of humanity. Tony Blair in 1986 in the United Kingdom took her as an example of food education to fight the obesity of our boys. Something has obviously changed in recent years. Dangerous multinationals resent Italian farmers. We have faith in her. I listened to your speech and I liked it very much. I was optimistic before and today I am even more optimistic because we of the League are convinced that, thanks to its help, we will defend agriculture in Italy with labelling, but above all we will fight the European multinationals that good for Italian agriculture do not want much of it. [[Applause]] We also have great and important challenges to fight. I am thinking of climate change, which certainly creates considerable difficulties for the production of Italian farmers. They must fight climate change, but they have a great burden to bear on their backs. I am referring to bureaucracy: 30% of Italian farmers' time is spent drawing up cards. President, in order to ensure that bureaucracy is not a burden, we need you. I turn to Mr Patuanelli. We've been talking about this for too long; we need to get this jump off. Italian farmers are good at producing; they are people who produce quality and who need to invest and produce. Italian farmers will be the ones who will restart the country. I, along with the League, am counting on you. We are convinced that after his intervention Italy will certainly improve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u29	Mr President, I begin this speech with a thank you to my colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars who will vote for confidence tonight. It is useless to turn around: this passage is not easy for our Group and many of us are politically and personally fought, as is the case with myself; but I, like them, respect the results of our vote on the network and, adapting to it, do not disregard my role as spokesperson to express confidence in this Government. President Draghi, I suppose it is not as important to you as I am convinced of my yes to trusting your Government, but I want to be very direct and determined to say that today's agreement can be transformed very quickly into a "no" to any measure the Government will run counter to the principles of Movimento 5 Stars; not a time trust, therefore, but certainly a confidence that will have to be won day after day, measure after measure. And don't think that on the themes you can make a partition at the table, giving every now and then a small confection to the right and one to the left. I have to admit that until a few days ago I would never have thought of voting in favour of trust. I would have liked to say 'no', as I did with the online vote last week, or at least in the alternative, take refuge in abstention. But I respect the majority of my colleagues and take on my share of this responsibility, as requested by our members: this is democracy. I am proud to be part of a political movement that involves tens of thousands of people to make such important choices, rather than having four or five party leaders locked up in a room. I want to add one thing, because I particularly care: the one who preceded it, Giuseppe Conte, did not deserve the treatment to which it was subjected. A beloved President, who has well managed the country also facing a pandemic, has been disassembled by partisan interests and by the personal livor of some, by a policy that self-sustaining restoration. The spirit that led the Government of President Conte is still present in this House and I would like to reiterate - listen to me well - my political contempt and my total disrespect for the person responsible for the political manoeuvres that have deprived the country of a President loved by the people like Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] Italians will not forget the responsibility of those who first tattooed the word MES on the chest and then was ready to hide it from the need: shame! Let's move on. President Draghi, the Movimento 5 Stars knows very well that the moment that the country is living requires everyone to take their responsibilities. Of course, the most important of these is to continue to be the voice and the bulwark in defence of the citizens. Themes such as environmental sustainability, the ecological transition of the productive fabric and transport, the minimum wage, the defense of workers, a reduction in the tax wedge, a definitive "no" at the ESM and a modern inclusive school will always be the pillars on which the political action of the Movimento 5 Stars will be based, inside and outside this Palace. We do not propose to Parliament words such as incinerators, drilling, taxation of the liberal professions, privatisation, reduction of the superbonus (reduction of the superbonus?) and do not come and propose the word "sacrifice," perhaps accompanied by the adjective "necessary" to make us swallow unacceptable toads. It surprises us: to put social and environmental justice at the centre of every measure that will be submitted to this House and, above all, to act quickly to deal with the health and economic crisis. Do it with courage, the courage that the Italians are asking for to gradually return to normality, while keeping high a threshold of attention as necessary in a pandemic. On these fronts you will find in Movimento 5 Stars a fair side and a healthy collaboration in the interest of our fellow citizens in difficulty. Be a diligent member and get your government to work right away. Let us work; we have wasted too much time on this absurd crisis. We are also available on Saturdays and Sundays: we must make the citizens' interest, exhausted by the pandemic, because of which everything gets worse. Waiting for the necessary reopenings, we put in circulation the refreshments and help, as soon as possible. But be careful not to weaken measures that we care about: I will save you the list, because you know it and other colleagues will talk about it. We immediately expect a government that respects the role of Parliament and of every single Commission; an executive that, within Parliament, does not ignore the role of the 5 Star Movement. Mr Draghi, it will not be easy to achieve such good results for the citizens and to be equally loved, as was the case for President Conte. For the good of Italy, I wish you good work. Today it receives a drop of trust, something really precious and to be guarded with responsibility and intelligence. Jean-Paul Sartre said that trust is earned drop by drop, but you can lose to liters: make it treasure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u30	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and good work. Allow me to wish Renato, Mariastella and Mara a special wish. [[Applause]] , because they are engaged with us, with dedication and responsibility, and I want to thank them for the burden they have assumed. Mr. President Draghi, ours is a strong support to the Government of the country - as you said - for the sake of Italy. It has been declined by President Berlusconi over the course of these months and we certainly have the will to interpret the sacrifice of many families and the desire to be born again of so many young people and our community. You have made a picture defined as a multifaceted one. I want to give you, if I can, modestly, only two small suggestions, the first of which concerns justice, since I am a member of the Justice Commission. The fact that I want to submit them to you, for further information, is that in Italy there are 10.6 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, against a European average of 18. I would also like to point out to you that the reforms of civil law have been many since 1990 and - you are right - the effects are not known, although they are present within them important levers, which, if monitored, could give excellent solutions. With regard to the issue of crises and insolvency, I would like to mention the recent corporate crisis code, which has been well seen at government level, but in a less detailed way by the Commissions. Surely this is the tool through which to see which companies and enterprises can grow and innovate, on the one hand, and which others must be accompanied instead. Finally, Mr President, I leave you a territorial assessment. They are Umbrian and, if we look at the data, Umbria is a region that slides from the North to the South. To understand, in a synthetic way, there is a great deal of attention from the President and the entire Regional Council to use the recovery fund in the best way possible and also from our university, for projects of excellence in telemedicine. We are a region that suffers a lot, but we are available with our skills and our proposals. Mr. President Draghi, I conclude by recalling the message of our Cardinal Bassetti, archbishop of Perugia: a message that has gone to all of us... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Faith. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u33	Mr President, President Draghi, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we come to this vote after very difficult weeks, in which Palace maneuvers have put an end to our government chaired by Giuseppe Conte: a government and a President who have led us over the last year in an unprecedented health and economic crisis, starting from a situation of total unpreparedness in the country, but managing to bend the curve of the contagions and limit the damage. Today we deliver a nation mainly in the yellow area thanks to the work of the Italians and the sacrifices of all. In this situation of pandemic world emergency and economic crisis, President Conte was able to gain confidence and credibility both from the vast majority of citizens and from the leaders of the main European countries, who recognized him, in words and in fact, a central role, in many respects historical, in a process that is in fact, finally, transforming Europe, which we knew and criticized in many, in a more communitarian sense, solidarity and inclusive. Thanks to this trust, this credibility, this work, we have recovered with our commitment the more than 200 billion that constitute the recovery fund, today the center of the future political actions of the government to which we are going to give the confidence. Unfortunately, it is clear that this consensus, gained in one of the darkest hours of our nation, was a shadow to someone. For us the recovery fund is an important resource for the country; perhaps for others only a mountain of money to manage. Certainly, in spite of the rhetoric about the skills and technicians that is raging in these days, for you, Professor Draghi, it is a challenge not indifferent to arrive after Giuseppe Conte, but I sincerely wish you to follow and improve the work of the outgoing president, and they are very sincere wishes, because its success would mean an even better fate for all of us, so we also rely on this. Like Movimento 5 Stars we are used to moving forward despite the difficulties, internal discussions even very heated, because we have the ambitious and exciting goal of achieving reforms that bring real improvements to the lives of citizens, as we have done since the 2018 general elections. We are responsible people, President, and so it already seems irresponsible, to the limit of madness, to have invented a political crisis in the middle of a pandemic, causing the country to lose weeks, with totally incomprehensible ways for most citizens. The Italians, exhausted by this pandemic, do not deserve to attend these games, organized on their skin. Today we are called once again to look ahead, to respond to the appeal of the President of the Republic, who has called for an act of responsibility for all the political forces present in this House. We are called to pronounce, for the third time in this parliamentary term - you have mentioned this - our trust, which - I remember - has never been betrayed by us. We are, therefore, reliable and consistent partners to support Italians in this struggle that has left almost 100,000 victims in the last year - it is a problem known to all - and very heavy damage to our economic and social system. Among other things, we too, as soon as the emergency began, called for unity and national responsibility, but, unfortunately, it remained unheard for over a year, in which, from the comfortable benches of the opposition, it has always pretended nothing, playing to make the bastian opposed for a small electoral convenience, denying at the beginning the pandemic, denying complexity, suffering and difficulties, feeding legends and confusion. We all know each other, we know our stories, our differences, our distrust, our past, but, as we have asked - without obtaining it - responsibility, now, consistently, we offer our responsibility by giving this Government confidence, also because we do not let ourselves be guided by prejudice, vengeance or personal interests, but always and only by the interest of the citizens. It is also true that in this nascent government the choices were not ours; we knew the composition of the team of ministers only after its hearings, the intentions for the future we listened to today, but the real, concrete choices, we will have to adopt them tomorrow, with rules to write together with very heterogeneous forces. For this reason, our confidence will not be in blank and unconditional, we are not here to listen and be informed, but to build, with mutual respect, starting from the protection of our previous results, on which I hope - and you have confirmed it - a proper parliamentary support also of the other forces that make up the new intergroup in the Senate. We will look at the concrete acts, continue to propose fair reforms and to ensure that the important resources coming are used for the general interest and not the usual known ones: for a real environmental change, also with our Ministry of Energy Transition, proposed by MoVimento; to facilitate social inclusion and harmony, starting from the income of citizenship; for the improvement of the real estate of the Italians, supporting the superbonus; to limit corruption, as we will see already Friday in the House with the vote on the prescription. We owe this vigilant trust not only to you - we certainly offer it to you - but we owe it to the Italians, as well as the family members of the victims of the massacre in Viareggio, and to our members. Our effort will have to convince them all, even that 40% of our base that was not favorable. Good work, President! Together we will face complex challenges with loyalty and respect, confronting us and closely monitoring each other's work because our results and goals will proceed quickly, but with timely and constant checks. We have placed our best men at your side; I thank those who have done this work before you, and we are available because the interest of Italians comes first of all. Thank you, President! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u35	Mr President, President Draghi, we started with a ski slide, not skis. We hope that it will be the first and that it will not happen again, because the technique is important, the numbers are important but also the political mediation and the meaning of the decisions and their consequences on the citizens: it was enough to say two days before. Allow me to make a few suggestions: I think we can make what we have work well. The bureaucracy can be overcome with normal diligence and discretion. Public works can start with current laws or even with minor changes, but they can start today or tomorrow. There are many residual projects that need to be carried out. There may be a cash problem, but there are. 110 percent of the ecobonus is a gem, just let it go, let the citizens go and not fear controls or denials that want us, but with an interpretation that is realistic. May I suggest that you abolish some of the mistakes of the past, namely lotteries, cashbacks, scooters. I also suggest less tax and regulatory pressure. As far as vaccines are concerned, the most experienced health officials in Italy are asking, for a month or two, to be able only to vaccinate and do first aid in hospitals. But you have to have vaccines. If Zaia found them, the government can also find them, at any cost within the limits of economic common sense. [[Applause]] As far as public debt is concerned, I would like to suggest the Salva Italia fund, conceived by Paolo Panerai, Paolo Savona and others and which is the subject of study by a parliamentary intergroup that I will try to carry out with my colleagues. You mentioned in some interviews, and even today, to the NPL (non-performing loans). Allow me to add zero rates and the fact that BCCs must be non-significant, they must be subject only to the Bank of Italy. Explain well, President, what recovery means. The subsidies should also be returned directly or indirectly. It is necessary to design and implement well in order to create the ability to repay through an effervescent, lively and free economy and an industrial policy that resolves the outstanding cases. We are Europeans, yes, but we do not want to be told what we have to write on the labels of meats, meats and wines. Finally, I would like a parliamentary committee of inquiry into justice, as some Members have already asked. On all the political and administrative slippery everyone said his. I see you're making a note. I hope that what I said will help and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u37	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is the day to talk about here and now. Long and useless would be the speech to tell the stories that led us before you, President Draghi. We all know them. I think it is equally useless to talk about dissatisfaction, distinctions, denials, adulations. We are here for one reason only: do not plunge the country into the social and economic abyss during a pandemic that hit us cruelly. I think it is clear how much our people expect of you, who now sits in the Upper House at the top of the executive power, before the sovereignty of the Italian people and no one else. It's just the well-being of the citizens and nothing else. These are the words that we must sculpt in our minds. Those who preceded it did so: they really represented these only interests. Money has arrived, a lot of money, which today represents the center of gravity around which everything revolves. You, President Draghi, are mainly here for this. Great is the responsibility for economic investments with considerable resources: 209 billion euros from the previous Government Count, whom we thank, with which Italy will decide for the next decade and beyond. The Movimento 5 Stars has a program to be realized, which you know, and has received the mandate from its members to support this Government in order to realize its essential points and assets: digitisation, school, health, environment, research and achieved results of welfare and social justice, such as the income of citizenship (which cannot be erased at this dramatic moment, but - indeed - must be completed and implemented), fundamental for families, workers and enterprises. I am comforted by your statements on this matter. I'm here to offer my support and help to the weakest, not those who speculate on them. I am ready to distrust this Government as soon as I realize that these principles are not shared. My willingness is to all ministers to make a constructive contribution: I am interested not in which party they belong, but where they want to go. When the bell rings for Italy, the targets can only be unique. I have decided that nothing else is worth but the future and how we imagine it. I think this may be a good reason not to give up, despite everything and everyone. President Draghi, colleagues, ministers, history has thrown this rock at us, the pandemic put a noose around our necks. Despite a confidence almost in the dark, from today the only goal will be to build a different future, of hope and bright, as of dark days this Republic has seen too many. We're all exhausted with ominous predictions about us, about the government, and about destiny. Let's make sure it's not like that or it's our end, but it's all yours. Thank you and good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I very much appreciated your speech because it started from placing this Government and our country in the wake of the Italian tradition that Italy wants in Europe and in the Atlantic context. You used a phrase that embodies the history of our country from De Gasperi onwards: I am referring to the passage in which you said that without Italy there is no Europe, but outside Europe there is less Italy. That is very true. While I am convinced of the need for some reforms in the European system, starting with those of the European Parliament and the legislative initiative of each Member of Parliament, I must acknowledge that from the common budget to which you refer, to the need for some common authorizations for the activities of the various countries, your sentence is the one that convinces me most in that it puts Italy in that wake of great European brotherhood that has led us to the results of today. I appreciate one more thing. Among the first things you have stated the need to combat the pandemic and achieve total vaccination of the population, placing health as the primary right. Putting health protection as a first objective is a great intuition, despite the gaps still present in the health system, which has shown some inefficiencies that you have properly announced. The realization of the full right to health is placed in perhaps not only by the pandemic, but also by the possible delays of the government that affect the possibility of countering the further variants of the virus, since we do not know with certainty how we will be able to fight them. A final appreciation is for the precise listing of what will be the task of each Ministry and of each Minister. Allow me to say something to President Cartabia, the new Minister for Justice, in the time I am lacking. I hope in one thing: that you want to make a cultural revolution in our country. I am not asking you for reforms, but to start a cultural journey aimed at giving back to the notice of guarantee and the registration in the register of the suspects their true value. They cannot be considered an anticipation of a non-existent judgment of guilt. At the same time, the real function assigned to it by the Constitution for the re-education of the condemned should be restored to punishment. In order to do this operation, which is fundamental for our country, however, it is necessary for you to address the press, as I believe you intend to do. If you will allow me, with the experience that comes from my knowledge of the real, I would so much like you not to follow the vulgates in the reform of the civil process. Let me give you an example: years ago we had an absurd race to the monocratic judge, as if it were the panacea of all evils, instead we lost a collegial system of great guarantee and we did not speed up the time of the trial. Finally, the Cassation has a huge delay in the tax section. In order to resolve this, it is necessary to make a section by law with 40 magistrates, not to resort to the palliatives of the past; in the same way we cannot say that there are no magistrates prepared, because then I must remind you - you know better than I do - that last week there was the judgment of the Constitutional Court that finally affirmed a principle in relation to indeducibility, which contradicted a constant affirmation of the... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator D'Angelo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council Draghi, representatives of the Government, colleagues all, the days preceding the birth of President Draghi's Government have been experienced with intense and often troubled debate within the 5 Star Movement, it is not a mystery; on the other hand, as is often the case, we have seen that even the chronicles have given great prominence, not always rigorously in the contents, but also this is not a novelty. All of us at Movimento, the family of Movimento, from the first activist to the last spokesperson, have put on the table our history, the path so far completed, the social battles on which our political strength was born and consolidated, which has undoubtedly revolutionized the scene and the very way to deal with the public thing. We have lived days of strong emotions, certainly incomprehensible for those who, superficially and instrumentally, have stopped only on low concepts such as armchairs or annuities of power. Together with the base we have decided to join your government, President of the Dragon Council. Italy has already lost many weeks, I would say months, for a crisis of Government that had no reason to be and this has not come only from the formalization of the crisis. The alleged paralysis of the activity of the Count II Government was actually an integral part of the strategy put in place by those who wanted the crisis and for this reason from that political force throughout the autumn came the zavorre that slowed the work. Today therefore Italy needs to run, with a firm guide, and we hope that this Government can be, surely with our responsible support. The President of the Council said in his speech that his Government cannot be regarded as a failure of politics. And in fact he said well, not only because there is a strong representation of the parliamentary forces inside it, but also because Chamber and Senate will have to monitor the respect of precise political guidelines. The Movimento 5 Stars has decided to support it, fixing some thematic points on which the Count government already worked and certainly trying to push the accelerator on the ecological transition, a theme that we dearly love. Those commitments, based on the themes, will be subject to constant verification in daily work, because the positive legacy that leaves to Italy Giuseppe Conte cannot be dispersed, even in the inevitable dialectic of the new articulated majority. Those in this House who gave a strong and sincere applause to President Giuseppe Conte have made themselves the representative and spokesperson of millions of Italians, who in him and in his Government have finally seen their ideas, their sufferings and their hopes represented. Surely - as you also pointed out in your speech - well-being, self-determination, legality and security are closely linked to the increase in female employment in the Mezzogiorno. Developing the capacity to attract investment is essential to create jobs and to reverse demographic decline and depopulation of internal areas; but, in order to achieve these objectives, an environment must be created where legality and security are always guaranteed. We have dealt with this in the Justice Commission since the beginning of the parliamentary term; measures have been adopted which have strengthened the certainty of punishment, the rights of the weakest and the fight against domestic and gender violence, while respecting the guarantees of all parties. We must continue the work, speeding up the times of the trials, in the civil and criminal, and certainly not take steps backwards, dismantling what good has been done. It is precisely the reforms of the process that are fundamental pillars of the recovery plan; on this point too it is certainly appropriate to start from the draft of the Recovery and Resilience Plan developed by the previous Government. In this respect, I feel it is my duty to make a comment on your speech: you said that the guidelines that Parliament will express will be of fundamental importance in the preparation of the final version. I therefore welcome the centrality which it recognises in this passage to Parliament, which will certainly not only have to be informed, but will continue to play a central role in achieving the recovery plan. It is precisely in the plan that we will have to present to the European Union by April will have to play a fundamental role in the development of the South, with particular attention to the recovery of the female employment gap, the truly indispensable infrastructure, health, industrial growth, the protection of the environment in areas with high pollution and the enhancement of the historical and artistic heritage. In the past months, both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic have spoken about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, stating that the clause of 34%, i.e. the distribution of funds by reason of the resident population, unfortunately does not seem sufficient to promote the reduction of territorial gaps still existing today between the different areas of our country, where a differentiation in relation to GDP per capita and the unemployment rate persists. Therefore, it was necessary to apply any other adjustments to the criteria of the division between the countries foreseen by the subsidies of the recovery and resilience mechanism: population, GDP per capita and unemployment rate also within the country, between the Regions and macro-areas, in order precisely to support the economically disadvantaged areas. That is why, Mr Draghi, we are asking you to take up this time of presentation of your policy lines in order to make a specific commitment to the allocation of RRF resources. We need to start with new conditions to highlight these funds. The Next generation EU is a great opportunity for Italy and is the right tool to fill the territorial gap that has been dragging for decades and that concerns not only development, but above all the level of well-being of individual citizens. Therefore, Mr Draghi, in ensuring that the new Executive, which you chaired, has the cooperation necessary to achieve the objectives set, we also feel the need to point out that there will never be a lack of serious and rigorous control over your work, with a constant which I want to define as a beautiful obsession: the maximum attention to issues that are at the heart of the citizens. The Draghi Government was born in times of health, economic and social emergency and we adhere to the call of responsibility put forward by the President of the Republic. We are the first political force in Parliament and for our part this sense of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u42	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as a citizen and as a politician, both Italian and European, I am particularly pleased to see you here in the Senate today on these benches. I am happy that, for the first time in this parliamentary term, I will be able, on behalf of more Europe-Action, to express my confidence in a government, its own. Here, until not too long ago, it was all a "out of the euro". This legislature was born and lived in hostility, more or less explicit, towards the European Union. It is clear that today, with the birth of its government, we are witnessing the failure not of politics, whatever it may be, but of that political one, which is another thing. I will not repeat the points of the programme, but I hope that your Government's experience will serve this: not to return to situations in which we call for the exit from the euro from Europe, to phrases such as "I live better in Moscow," "Maduro" and then to yellow vests. Stop. You have given a line and who will support your government has clear what the stakes are. It is not up to us to give licenses, much less to me, but if anyone has radically changed their judgement on the European Union, I am happy about it and we must all be. You are called, on the advice of President Mattarella, to lead a government that will have heavy tasks. One is called Next generation, not next election; I don't know if the difference is clear. I do not repeat the points he has made, but what I know is that citizens and citizens, workers and workers, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs will have a better future the more united and strong Europe will be. If we succeed, it will be a success for everyone. If we fail, the enemies of Europe, who are many and very obvious, will be celebrating. Mr President, your navigation will not be easy; it will not always be as it is today, it will not take pleasure in us: it is not so. There will be divisions, misunderstandings and opposing interests and it will take all its authority to keep the bar straight. Someone's gonna have to be displeased. +Europe-Action will support it, as I said, in good and bad luck. We have not become a single party, everyone has his own (Miner Cartabia knows how much I also care about points of reform of criminal justice and a beginning of solution of the problem of prisons, which is shameful to our country). You'll remember that. When I was a young girl, I was very impressed by a phrase by Adenauer "The unity of Europe was a dream of a few. It has become hope for many. Today it is a necessity for all. A government led by you and all of you was a hope of few, very few; today it has become an opportunity for all and I hope we will seize it. Finally, I greatly appreciated his sobriety of communication that was not efficiency, it is another way. I hope that it will not be overwhelmed immediately, however, by the extemporaneous quarrels of its ministers (we already have those of scientists, we can no longer). They will fuel the talkshows, but also the confusion and anxiety, of which we already have enough. I would also like to point out that, despite the social era, there are still phones: if by chance you telephoned before you went out to all spy, you would do a great cultural pleasure to the citizens and citizens of the country. This is also very important to me; politics is doing and letting people know, not just letting people know. I hope that on these points and also on this behaviour of institutional respect and respect for... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, these days many have compared the current political situation with that of other exceptional emergencies that our country has faced in the past. You, Mr Draghi, in your speech, first of all recalling the dramatic numbers of the victims and the disastrous economic consequences, rightly mentioned the spirit of the governments of the immediate post-war period, which were faced with the possibility - or rather the responsibility - of starting a new reconstruction. Today, as then, in fact, we are faced with dramatic, unforeseen and probably unpredictable emergencies, which impose a compactness of the political forces present in Parliament and of all the representatives of the institutions, because it is impossible not to give an answer to the country. Patriotism, in fact, did not leave, but only one interest: to serve the country when it needs it more [[Applause]] , postponing the sharp confrontation between opposing ideas and interests at least until the health and economic situation is stabilized. Many citizens, probably, and many voters from various political parties of so different background, who today are preparing to give confidence to the birth of a government of national unity, could misunderstand this choice as a lack of coherence, a surrender before the political opponents or, worse still, a form of new consociativism. It's not like that. As you rightly and correctly pointed out, President Draghi, in your speech, the birth of this new Executive is not the failure of politics, but the victory of the republican spirit, an act of patriotism of each of us. [[Applause.]] This is a huge effort by all political forces to put aside the aspects that most divide us and, in some cases, the livor that characterized the political dialectic. Get out of the nightmare of this pandemic that threatens all of us and ensure the drafting of a credible, effective and innovative recovery plan that can revive Italy and ensure a solid future for the next generations: these are the two crucial challenges that you rightly mentioned and there are no other options. Well aware of this, Forza Italia, my political movement, was among the first political forces to call for a government of national unity and public health, which would solve the health crisis and the consequent economic crisis of the country. Only last Sunday, President Berlusconi said again that at a time of such serious difficulty for the country we must put aside the interests of the side and give Italy a high profile government. The choice has fallen on you, dear Professor Draghi, by President Mattarella (who I thank for this), for your experience, for your ability, esteem and trust on the part of the European institutions. You embody exactly the figure that can lead the country in these challenges, reassure the Italians and call to yourself the various political parties, as you have done these days and this morning here in the Senate. With regard to the chapter on reforms, I would like to take a moment to comment on some of the issues that I particularly care about in the work I do here in the Senate. With regard to the Next Generation EU programme, I feel obliged to recall my draft law on the repeal of the Procurement Code and the subsequent use of EU directives. [[Applause]] The decree-law simplifications that was produced by the previous Government unfortunately - I regret to say - did not achieve the stated objective. The relaunch of public investment requires a drastic simplification of legislation and a transition - a time you have rightly referred to the start of your experience as a government - to good administration, that is, a rapid and decisive one. Dear President, at the end of my speech, I would like to recall your final words...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u46	I invite you to deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u47	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). I'll hand it over, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u48	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u49	Mr President, never before has our country faced an unprecedented economic crisis at this time. Since last year Italy has changed, the whole world has changed. Today this Government is preparing to receive from Parliament a mandate full of expectations and responsibility to lead Italy with commitment towards recovery, bringing back trust and hope among our fellow citizens. It is at times like these that the call to unity launched by President Mattarella must find support and foundation in the message that left us those who wrote the Constitution and began to rebuild our country after the war. Those women and those men sanctioned that our Republic is founded on work, but that it is not only a source of gain or occupation: work is dignity and belonging to the productive fabric of a territory, that bond that makes us an integral part of a system and a community. This bond today has undoubtedly been broken and bent on lockdowns, restrictions and continuous containment measures imposed on the population. If this Government really wants to affect the next generations, then it will have to make the message of the constituent Fathers and restore dignity to millions of Italian citizens who paid dearly for the sacrifices imposed since March. [[Applause]] I would like to mention the thousands of self-employed, VAT matches, artisans, small and medium-sized enterprises, family-run activities, businessmen in the catering and tourism sector and the major events and operators in the entertainment and sports sectors. This crisis didn't give discounts to anyone: it didn't do it to entrepreneurs or employees and it didn't just take away their resources and earnings, but it literally sucked, day after day, energy and passion. As is well known, on 31 March the blockage of redundancies will expire, a measure that will necessarily have to be extended, just as it will be indispensable to extend the social shock absorbers to give serenity to workers and families and give a new perspective to employers. It will not be enough to give up the tax deadlines, it will not be enough to give up the tax deadlines. We will need concrete action plans, which combine security and freedom to return to their jobs, to be able to return to normal. A normality that will certainly be new and to which all of us will have to adapt, but that can no longer be postponed with sudden or improvised measures, like that that that has overwhelmed the managers of the ski resorts a few days ago. The League, supporting President Draghi, has chosen the path of responsibility, making itself available, as our many local and regional administrators teach us every day, and at the service of the citizens. I do not deny that it would have been easier to remain in opposition, but we could not escape this call and we could not fail to play a role as protagonists, with the custody of important Ministries, such as that of economic development and that of tourism, to those responsible for whom, Giancarlo Giorgetti and Massimo Garavaglia, goes our wish for good work. [[Applause]] Thank you, President Draghi, thank you for listening to the request of Matteo Salvini and the League and having given back to our country the Ministry for Disability, Ministry unfortunately eliminated by the previous Government Conte- bis. To those who have recently hurled against this Ministry I want to remind you that, never as at this time, disabled people, fragile workers and their families need particular attention and attention. This is not a discriminatory choice, but a clear intention to strengthen policies aimed at protecting the most at-risk categories. I am convinced that, thanks to the sensitivity and pragmatism of the new Minister Erika Stefani, to whom we wish good work, the demands from this category of workers will be heard again. [[Applause]] President Draghi, there is so much to do and we will do our part with responsibility and common sense, but on one condition: that it is always put forward for all the good of the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u50	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and members of the Government, we are experiencing a very critical historical period. We must face a global challenge, because the current pandemic is a global problem, such as climate change, the depletion of natural capital, inequality and poverty. Therefore, we are a single community, which must support the common home if it wants to have a future for its children. For this reason, the green new deal, which is simply a green pact among all nations, a strategy that aims to achieve climate neutrality in 2050 by adopting shared actions among all stakeholders in each country; for this reason I share his words, President Draghi. Today, in this House, no one takes a step back from his identity, because we must put together the competences, the skills and the spirit of sacrifice in order to make Italy start again. We are in the era of resilience, of the anthropocene. We need to make a quantum leap: we need to move from a balance regime, which in reality is no longer one, to another. The green deal is the only way. Unity is the only way. The ecological transition is precisely this: it is a necessary process of transformation at the technological, economic, ecological, sociocultural and institutional levels. Stairways that influence and strengthen each other. It is a systemic process, which takes account of the complexity of nature and which must focus on the interactions and interconnections that exist between the three systems: economic, ecological and social. Barry Commoner, 1971, in his book "The Circle to Close." Nature, man and technology remind us that in ecology there are no free meals. But Milton Friedman also tells us, with the principle of cost-opportunity, when he says that nothing is free and that, if an individual gets something for free, surely society will give up the opportunity to devote the same resources to alternative uses. So, in ecology as in economics, the price must be paid. Perhaps it is possible to postpone over time, but everything that is taken from the environment system, even in free mode, has a cost and everything that is put into nature, as waste or emission into the atmosphere, sooner or later will change the resilience of the system and it will not be possible to return to the initial state. You, President Draghi, today said this, when you said that this virus is the result of human activities, of non-compliance with the laws of nature, of non-compliance with the balances between systems. Therefore, a radical transition, a revision or a dismantling of the current way of producing and consuming, even traveling, feeding and relating to each other is necessary. The ecological transition is an opportunity. There is great potential. In global markets there are low-emission technologies, sustainable products and services. In order to steer the market towards sustainability, key variables must be addressed. New rules, laws and regulations are needed to support innovation, decarbonisation, sustainable mobility, the transition from a linear economic model to an ecological and inclusive model. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan must do this, be the basis for a new economic and ecological model, in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the green deal. We must continue the excellent work carried out by the previous government. I thank President Giuseppe Conte and Minister Sergio Costa for the great results they have achieved. However, we must correctly measure the maximum sustainable scale. From an ecological point of view, we could define it as the transport capacity of homo sapiens. Gross domestic product is an excellent indicator, but it is not sufficient for a real ecological transition; it is necessary to quantify and estimate the economic value of ecological services, the value of biodiversity in order to protect it, soil, water resource, air value to combat particulate emissions and NO Policies must focus on correcting market imperfections and giving proper value to natural resources. These evaluations can be developed by structures that can proceed with a systemic and multidisciplinary approach. That is why I am convinced that the Ministry of the ecological transition is an excellent step, but it is only the first because economic skills must also be aligned. You said today that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan has as governance the Ministry of Economy and Finance and I hope that macroeconomic models of integrated evaluation will be used which, together with economic variables, also have physical variables such as CO2 in the atmosphere and that standardised methods of assessing environmental and social impacts will be used. Financial activity, public investment and project can be considered sustainable if they contribute to mitigation and adaptation to climate change and water protection. In conclusion, as Einstein tells us, the true value of a man is determined by examining to what extent and in what sense he has come to rid himself of the self. We are here for other men and above all for those whose smile and well-being depends on our happiness, but also for that multitude of strangers whose fate binds us with a bond of sympathy. We are here, therefore, at the service of our common home and Italy. Good job! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since your name broke into Italian politics, after the dramatic appeal of the President of the Republic, there is a question that is buzzing in the head of politicians, in party discussions and - I would like to say - also in the country. The question is, who is Mario Draghi? Not because nobody knows the biography of the most famous Italian in the world, as you often call it, but because, President, I think it is not rhetorical exercise and needless to ask the nature of the course of history that is opening up today and, therefore, also the nature of the government that you will have the responsibility to lead. Mr President, you said something that impressed me very positively in your report. You come at the moment of the greatest fragility of politics, where politics has not been able to find within it the reasons for its revival. Politics, however, is not dead and this particular majority must not only be the space in which the parties do not cancel their differences, but a space - I think - in which a legitimate and - you will see - even harsh, albeit respectful, battle of ideas must be consumed because politics must find its space again. Of course, there are things that we have to do together and that require the utmost urgency and responsibility, but I think - to be the question I asked at the beginning - that it is right to ask what we mean when we launch some of the definitions that we risk becoming attached to. What is the ecological transition that we are talking about so much? For me - excuse me for the lack of time - risks becoming a great brushstroke of green if it is not linked to the social dimension of the processes, to the issue of the re-tracking of the relationships of strength in society, of how to ensure the creation of quality employment, where this must mean bond of protection of the rights of workers and workers. You mentioned the coefficient of Gini, which is an algid indicator that perhaps does not fully indicate the materiality of the condition in which thousands of families live in the country. Is that what we're talking about? Do we have an idea of the centrality of public school? Allow me to make the only known controversy that I would like to stress: we have listened to the attacks on the Minister of Health these days, and fortunately the tones have changed. But those attacks, Mr President, are not addressed to a minister who has done well and even less to the political side who expresses it: they risk being attacks on that principle of caution that must also inform his Government in the protection of public health and, therefore, also in the fight against the pandemic. That is why I say to you, Mr President, for what is of course important, that I shall vote for the government of the country - as you have called it - and of course I will not do so without suffering. There are seasons that feel on you and fit you like a dress and the others that you don't feel on you. Probably, as far as I'm concerned, this is one of those, but I will respond to the President of the Republic's appeal. For what matters, however, I say to you, with equal honesty, that you will find me against whenever you have to have the perception that your Government - and therefore also this majority - should deviate from constitutional values, from respect for human rights, from the values of social justice, fiscal progressivity, the centrality of public research and public school, from the National Health Service that is and must remain public. [[Applause]] I think it is useful to say all this at the beginning of this political affair. And, always with regard to the question of who Mario Draghi is, I do not have all the clues that can put me in a position to answer, but above all, President, I fear that you are not the technician called to save the country that we all expected, and perhaps, even yours, that must be the most political among politicians. It is an absolutely difficult task - I do not envy you - and it is the reason why I make you a big good luck and wish you good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u55	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, these days I have heard several of us lamenting the death of politics and regretting its primacy: I context the reasoning, although I appreciate the sentiment. The context because Mario Draghi is not the cause of the death of politics, but the effect of a political crisis. When an order, a power or a single personality occupies the vital spaces of politics, this is never the fault of that order, that power or that individual personality: it is always and only the fault of the politics and the institutional system of which politics is at the same time the cause and effect. I consider that the First Republic actually collapsed in 1989, when the ruins of the Berlin Wall overwhelmed a political system that was no longer necessary. Well, since then, with rare exceptions, the government of the national economy has always been entrusted to a non-political. Since then, in thirty-two years we have had twenty-one governments, one every year and a half. Since then, whenever the country has been touched and hit by a particularly complex global crisis, there has been a need for a non-political one. This is not the sign of a conspiracy or an evil device: it is the sign of the weakness of our institutional and political system. Today we are called to vote for a government of national salvation, which is clearly not even a political choice: it is a pre-political choice, a patriotic, institutional choice. I am personally sure that with everyone's contribution we will be able to get the country out of its grip, between pandemic and recession. I am equally sure that, if we were to limit ourselves to this, we would betray our mandate, because we would not secure the future of the country. The problems must be addressed and solved a little at a time, those structural problems that have made this economic crisis almost unmanageable by politics. The structural issues are well known: the form of government, the perfect bicameralism, the relationship between the central state and the regions, the quality of the legislative process and the role and function of Parliament, the role of political parties, the application of Article 49 of the Constitution, the formation of the political class - of the political elite, as once would have been said - and the establishment of a high-education school, on the model of the École nationale d'administration (ENA) in France. [[Applause]] We are in a position to deal with and dissolve these nodes and not to do so would be a serious fault. All of us, today, envy the estate, the authority and the strength of the French State, but let us forget that the Fourth French Republic was a fragile, ineffective, inefficient and corrupt system, in which the Governments lasted on average six months, after which the wind took them away. What's changed? It has changed that a gentleman, named Charles de Gaulle, and a political context have reformed the French state. The gentleman then, on a pretext, discharged himself from politics and passed in full title to history. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a similar task, of historical significance, and a great opportunity, which we risk not taking. If we didn't grasp it, the consequences would be on us and on the future of the country. It would be unforgivable not to take this opportunity, because I believe it is clear to everyone that, in a globalized world, never as now without a geopolitical order, experienced by increasing tensions and by profound, radical changes and never as fast as today, other pandemics and other global crises will certainly wait for our country. So we need to secure the country, because next time a Mario Draghi might not arrive, no one might arrive or a malicious person could arrive, because we live in an era of recession even democratic. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be more than a mistake to simply vote for the Draghi Government today, without having enough of them, in our capacity as parliamentarians, and without having confidence in the possibility of honouring this institution, by putting hand, after decades of unnecessary chatter, to the crooked wood of the State, by reforming our institutions, on the one hand, would be more than a mistake: it would be a serious fault, which our children could one day reproach us for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Italy was already experiencing an important economic and social crisis before the pandemic, with so many business crises that were opened and never closed, as in the case of the former Ilva. Today, after a year of lockdown, the situation of the country needs an exceptional effort and, therefore, an exceptional Government. In this delicate phase of the history of Italy, the League has chosen to put the interests of the country, businesses and citizens ahead of those of the party. With courage and sense of the State, our leader Matteo Salvini has responded with responsibility to the appeal of President Mattarella, accepting the challenge of a Government of national unity, which takes Italy out of the health and economic crisis. For this important political choice, I feel, today and in this Chamber, that I must thank Matteo Salvini, on behalf of the people of the League and the Italians. [[Applause]] Mr President, today all of us Members of Parliament and the members of the Government have the obligation not to err, to do well and, above all, to do quickly, because until now, unfortunately, a great deal of time has been wasted, without building a political-economic plan and vision, to restore confidence, hope and opportunity to the many Italians, who have lost their jobs or have their activities closed. The situation outside the palace is very serious and we must re-establish political action to real life, overcoming the stasis and quarrels that have characterized the last months of the past government. The main challenge facing us is to return to life, by vaccinating the population, without any more waste of time and writing a new page of economic development, making the best use of the resources that will be lent to us by Europe with the recovery plan, because the future of our children is at stake today. As he betrays my accent, I am a Apulian senator, a Southern legist, proud to be southern, and it is precisely in the South that a historical game is played, to create development and not to divide poverty. The South today must become a national issue, because the development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy is an opportunity for economic growth throughout Italy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must move from the logic of subsidies to development: this is the qualitative leap we are asking you to make in the policies for the Mezzogiorno. It is necessary to intervene in order to equalize the infrastructural deficiencies between North and South, because as long as it will take five hours to go by train from Bari to Naples, two hours to go from Bari to Matera and a ferry to connect Sicily to Calabria is useless to speak of development in the epoch of the transports and the logistics. The South must be sewn up, the distances between the regions and between the productive excellences of this part of Italy must be shortened. The League asks to be able to inaugurate to the South a season of great yards, opened for a real modernization and extraordinary creation of the occupation. For this reason, as a League, we ask that the investments of the recovery plan be calculated in qualitative terms and above all of immediate cantierabilità. The ability to spend and the speed of realization must be the polar star to which we direct our action. To the vision of economic engagement of the recovery must follow, indeed, it must anticipate a normative and regulatory simplification that can allow the model Genoa also for the high railway speed, the potenziamento of the highway network and the bridge on the Strait. The realization of the bridge on the Strait is one of the very few projects that the European Union could never reject, because it is already executive and immediately cantierabile: a work of system that not only would impact positively on Sicily and Calabria, favoring its tourist and commercial development, but would have positive repercussions also in Puglia, where only the supply of steel could guarantee to the former Ilva of Taranto committed for at least the next five years. We therefore call, Mr President, for the polemics of mere welfareism, which they have done so badly to the South, to be closed, and for a strategic vision to be set up to fill the gaps and overcome the methadone of subsidies, which, like all painkillers, suffer but do not treat it; on the contrary, prolonged use can also aggravate the situation. The government that preceded it has kept for months in the drawer the dossier on the Ilva of Taranto and now the lack of decisions risks creating an occupational disaster and at the same time an environmental disaster, if they have to stop the Bonifiche that require huge and immediate financial resources. We know that Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti is already at work on the subject and we are counting that, from the whole Government, he can receive fruitful support to resolve this issue. Mr President, the achievement of the South's growth objectives is possible; economic policy actions focused on public investment, taxation and... PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u58	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u59	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, colleagues, a year and a half ago the Count II Government was born: a government that has worked to accompany the country at the most difficult time, from the post-war period to today; a government that has faced a pandemic, strengthening the territorial network of our National Health Service, keeping under control the number of contagions and managing to be among the first countries in Europe for the administration of vaccines. A government that has supported the economy, placing on the market 140 billion euros in support of families and businesses. A government which, as you mentioned, Mr President, has changed Europe's political vision, which, for the first time in history, not only shared a debt plan, but also acted unitedly on the health front with the purchase of vaccines in the Community. A government that has obtained 209 billion of the recovery fund, which will serve to implement those reforms that this country has been waiting for for a few decades. So first of all, I say thank you for what has been done so far and thank you to President Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] At some point, however, although the theatres were closed, Senator Matteo Renzi decided to use this House as a stage. And so we found ourselves - the only country in the world - faced, in addition to the economic and health crisis, also a political crisis. [[Applause]] It was not easy for 60 million Italians to attend this staging. For the umpteenth time the politics has given a show little constructive, while outside these palaces the citizens waited for the refreshments, the patients crowded the Covid departments, the young people asked to be able to return to school in presence after months. Then the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella first tried the path of a political government and then, to the failure of this attempt, called to responsibility all political forces to give life to a high-profile Executive, who faced promptly the emergency health, social, economic and financial. Since then we have started a process of analysis and confrontation that has seen us all involved, from the summits to our base, from the activists to our voters. Before making the decision to support this Government we consulted our members, as we always do, and we are proud of this process of democratic participation that has characterized us and has always characterized us. [[Applause]] There are many doubts, however, that we have and many things we will have to work on: the diversity of political forces that constitute this new majority with issues still not shared today; the complexity of the creation of the new Ministry of the ecological transition, which will take long time to enter the regime; the fragility of this Government of national unity, a unity that lasted only a few hours because we have already recorded the first discordant positions of the Ministers of the League regarding the decisions taken by Minister Hope to postpone the opening of skiing facilities. President Draghi, I personally hope that you will not hesitate to clarify to your ministers what their areas of action are and that you will be able to strongly support decisions aimed at protecting the health of citizens. In these days we have heard many appeals for responsibility and you too have spoken this morning of national responsibility. We have shown by the facts that we are always responsible, out of a sense of duty and institutions, so responsible that we choose today to support this Government, sacrificing not only our voters, as you said, but the unity of our Group. The suffering that each of us had to face before entering this House today, and of our pain and suffering, you, President Draghi, must take into account, aware that this trust will have to be earned by the government every day, showing by the facts that it was worth it. [[Applause]] We in this House also feel another responsibility, that of cultivating memory, even the recent one. We do not just want to cope with the emergency in order to return to normality, but we want to imagine a new normality, a new model of society that leaves no one behind, a model based on the ecological conversion of the entire economic system, on smart working with a vision of work that puts the person at the centre, on the safeguarding of the National Health Service to ensure access to care and uniformity of the essential levels of assistance, on territorial cohesion. Every political force will try to dictate its conditions. Our programme is clear, however, because our themes are the same from the 2018 policies, the same ones shared by the forces with which we have governed, and from these issues, President, we are asking you today... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u60	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u61	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, Brothers of Italy will not trust you, or rather will not trust your Government. There will certainly be no lack of confidence in you, so I want to start my speech wishing you good work, a wish that I wish you in the interest of the country and in the name of a political force like Brothers of Italy that, as our President Giorgia Meloni said, will surely be loyal and correct to you, that loyalty and that correctness that I so much wish that you could find in the majority of minestrone that must support you. We will not trust your Government because we believe that without a cohesive majority in programmes, ideals and values we cannot achieve the objectives. However, we trust you, Mr Draghi, and in a few steps in your speech today, when you spoke about monetary and fiscal expansion. We really hope so. Know that on these issues Brothers of Italy will be with the Government and with you if you really give an expansive perspective to the economic and financial policies of the country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I appreciated - as an accountant, as well as coordinator and promoter of the consultation of accountant parliamentarians, which is a cross-cutting body - when he spoke of an expert-led tax reform. Vivadio, until today the professional experts have been highly disassembled by politics and governments and we hope that President Draghi will be able to really mark a discontinuity on these topics. Of course we were less pleased to hear (but we would like to understand better in fact what you mean) about the transfer of sovereignty, because we all agree on membership of Europe, but there are those who can have a vision of federal Europe and who can have a vision of confederal Europe in which sovereign countries join for supreme ends. We would like to understand more from you what you mean for Europe, because on the concept of Europe and collaboration Brothers of Italy there is and has always been in the history of the Italian right, as you should remember. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I therefore wish you every success. Help us out of the health drama of the pandemic and also - let me say it with a joke, but not too much - from the drama of the virologies, which perhaps would do better to shut up, work for those who consult them and leave to politics and the government the ability to express themselves. We try to get out of the pandemic, but also from this melodrama of Italian virologies that has really tired and is only creating problems for the economic sector of our country. Mr President, I would also like to make a recommendation to you. You know that I wrote a letter to you and to the Presidents of the House and Senate to invite you to be as much as possible ambassadors of Made in Italy. Our productions - here yes, really, transversally - must make us proud of the Italy system: from clothing, to food, to cars. Let's promote Made in Italy, especially when we play institutional roles. I know that you, as a great economist, understand me and I am sure you will follow up on my invitation. I would also ask you to make our opposition work difficult. We would be happy because it will mean that the provisions and the work of his and his Government will finally be in the interest of the Italians, in which case they will receive the vote of Brothers of Italy. The role of opposition, which is democratically essential and fundamental, will be more difficult. We, as lovers of our land and homeland, could only I'm glad to hear that. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to sum up the first steps of your Government and, in particular, what has happened in the field of tourism. I am a representative of Trentino, of that world of the Dolomites which, unfortunately, in the early hours of its government received inadequate and timely wrong answers. The tourism and winter tourism sectors are on the verge of the precipice. If you remember, Mr President, I really ask you as an Italian, a Trentino and a mountain man. Continuing in summary always because of the tight times, I remind you of those 5.5 million members of the world of sport who have not heard anything in the program of your government and expect answers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I submit four proposals by Brothers of Italy, confirming our collaborative role. On tourism, I call for an immediate declaration of the state of crisis in the sector, Article 107 (2) (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: it is necessary to allow our tourism to restart. As I said before, I would ask professionals to be heard and the withholding tax reduced to 10%, because at such a dramatic time professionals cannot be cashiers to the state: I am thinking, for example, of the youngest and the most peripheral. I therefore hope that the fair compensation and taxation of the social security funds will be equal to those of the supplementary pension scheme. Finally, Mr President, the Covid debt of companies must be socialised, it must be extended to at least twenty years or at least nationalised. I'm talking about the Covid debt of those lockdown companies that have lost more than 30%. In conclusion, Mr President, we also discussed the Governor of the Bank of Italy, who gave us a favourable opinion: the bad bank for non-performing loans (NPL) Covid at European level could be a solution to give concrete answers to those citizens and businesses who are unfortunately suffering on the NPL issue. These are the first four proposals that I also offer on behalf of Brothers of Italy, to show you that we are here, loyal, correct and collaborative. Give us answers. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u63	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all express the satisfaction of Cambiamo, a small component which, in the first instance, in the face of such an eclectic crisis, especially in the course of time, called for a government of national salvation. We used the expression "Gabinet of War" because it seemed to us that this was the only solution to the times. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your words today we have found the echo of that concern. If this solution has been established it is due to the principle of reality, which sometimes works miracles and also allows small political forces to become a majority. You responded to the words spoken by President Mattarella when, in those six minutes that have been a turning point in this crisis, you felt the duty to appeal to all the political forces present in Parliament to give confidence to a high-profile government, which should not identify itself with any political formula. It was the leap compared to the proposal of the Government Count 3, where instead there was a clear and clear reference, which was expressed by reference to Europeanism. You have also referred to Europeanism, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but - if you have a degasperian Europeanist to say so - there are two ways of conceiving Europe. In history Europe has been a popular necessity; it was when Jean Monnet said that we had to take a problem understood by the people we had to practice the minimum of transfer of sovereignty necessary to resolve it and then start from there in order to achieve greater integration. This is what we are living today for the umpteenth time, with the citizens of one state having to pay taxes for citizens of another state. It is clear that if the solution goes well, we will have greater political integration. Europe, when successful, was a response to contingent problems, such as at the time of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), when Spinelli and De Gasperi found themselves on a practical need. Europe has never been a substitute ideology, it has never been a belt of chastity. I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to refer to this high concept of Europeanism, so as not to bring back from the window the formula that President Mattarella kicked out of the door. His is not a coalition; his is a republican government of salvation, where the various political forces refer to her. We are not joining a new coalition; this is a chapter of a political struggle that looks and must look to the future (and that is why the proposition of old intergroups makes little sense). We hope that your Government will not be the re-edition of a chapter that has already been seen, but that it will be able to write a reform of the political struggle. And this will be all the more possible the more you will keep in mind what are the real emergencies of the country. You spoke of the antidepressant government and we appreciated it, without maramaldeggiare against those who preceded it because in reality he found himself facing a real jump in the dark, which sometimes history proposes, as at the time of the First World War there was the machine gun and at the time of the Second World War the tanks. This country, like the rest of the world, did not know how to deal with the pandemic. But the problem remains. Today, after a year, there is a need to harmonize the response to two emergencies, which need to be seen together and not as two separate chapters. We have the medical emergency and we have the economic emergency of a depressed and, in some cases, even desperate country. Mr President, at that time, which is called a vacant seat (when one pope dies and another is made), there was a blunder. Certainly it did not give harmony to the country having denied a lunch on Valentine's Day to couples who celebrated this date in the orange area; they could wait twenty-four hours to bring into force the new measures. Certainly it was not a good thing what happened at ski resorts, where there was almost a hatred of businesses and entrepreneurs. Some of them told me they weren't even angry anymore, but to be resigned. And certainly it is not a good thing that a government consultant, instead of consulting inside, speaks outside as if he were a representative of the government. I understand that these things have happened at a very special time, and that is clearly why it is not possible to blame your Government even remotely. But it is necessary, Mr President, that we now give a sign of change, that we keep the bar straight on what are the real emergencies of the country, that there is the strength to harmonise the answers that concern the pandemic and those that concern the economy. The more your government succeeds in doing this, the more you will be able to ensure this as a point of conjunction between the various political parties that refer first to you, even more than to one another, and the more we will be next to you. Mr. President, good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u64	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u65	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this morning we heard from you important words, words of trust, hope and responsibility. We knew we were in strong, wise hands, and your words this morning confirmed that. You didn't just tell us this morning about a country to rebuild or how to make this dramatic pandemic an opportunity for departure and recovery. You have above all indicated in which direction to do so and to what idea of country to go in the next few years. And his words - I tell you with sincerity - have heartened us. In front of us there is a tired country, a tried country, a country with many strengths, but also - ahinoi - characterized by too many distortions and failures, which we have seen exploding tragically during this pandemic. Justice, public administration, school, health are key areas, which have shown all their fragility. The health system has stood up, it is true; but we have understood that considering the costs of what should have been investments for years was a very serious mistake, just as it was for school and justice. Our production system as a whole has still proved to be plastered, unmodern and competitive, too resistant to technological innovation and digitalization. A backwardness that not only reproaches us for Europe, but whose gravity is expressed by the quality and quantity of employment in our country. You are right, Mr President-in-Office, when you say that we cannot just think of turning the light back on and going back to the way we were before, as if everything had been just a road accident. Also because this pandemic - we want to say this clearly - we have not all gone through it in the same way. Divariations and inequalities existed before and were exacerbated during and after; disparities and inequalities that I would like to remind all of us not because we are a left-wing force, but because for all economic and social observers today represent not only social injustice, but increasingly a heavy brake on the growth and restart of a country and a system. Of all people, the most transversal and unfair - and I am very happy that you have called him back several times in your relationship this morning - is the one between the women and men of this country. Today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy - we must recognise this - is not a country for women. If again - I say this frankly and with some bitterness - some colleagues, even in this House and today - alas - in this majority may think of questioning the goodness of the Constitutional Court's judgment on the double surname, because the woman brings her children into the world with her own body but then it is always and only the father who gives them traditions, family and history, you understand well that the road is still very, very long. [[Applause]] I ask you and us: then we are surprised why during the pandemic the male violence against women in our homes increased? We wonder why the feminicides resist as the murders descend? Are we surprised why a man feels entitled to abuse a woman without his consent? But if this woman is for us a box, an object, an inanimate body, I ask you the problem where is she? Instead, I give amazing news to Senator Pillon and to everyone who thinks like him, even today. Women in this country today are an extraordinary power, representative of a wealth of skills, knowledge and passions that, as you rightly reminded us this morning, are still too unused. [[Applause]] This leads to weaker and more unjust economic and social development and this happens because the system is discriminatory; it is only apparently neutral, while it is instead thought and built on a model in which man was the only protagonist of social, economic and public political life, while the woman was thought at home, to look after daughter and family. A gap that today weighs mainly on the youngest in terms of lack of employment; a gap that then, when it interweaves another, the territorial one, becomes insurmountable. It is here that a change of pace is necessary, especially to attack the biggest mortgage of the future of our country: women no longer have children or make few, because women have children if they work, if they have a certain and stable job, with the necessary safeguards and guarantees, not if they are at home if anything waiting for a piece of extra land to be cultivated. Well, then let's give priority to women's employment. I would add that in this Parliament we have already voted on so many clear guidelines that have been produced in recent months, and then we have added those of the Colao Plan, made by women in the task forces. There are clear indications. However, let us talk about sharing, please, rather than conciliation, because we need social infrastructure capable of lifting women from care jobs, starting with day care. There is a need for equal leave and protection in career paths after maternity. To bring a child into the world is a feminine prerogative, of course, but it is good for everyone's future. This means recognizing the social value of motherhood: taking charge of it all together. For all these reasons, while recognizing the value of the quality of the Ministre present, to which we address our sincere and warmest wish, we cannot hide that we would have expected a greater presence of women in the government team to which we are going to give our confidence today, because the numbers in democracy - I do not know if it is a matter of quota - especially if representation of different points of view, make or can make a difference. No hypocrisy, though. What we have before us is the photograph of a country system that struggles to recognize, invest and promote female leadership, which makes power one thing for men alone. It is a vulnus of which, starting from my party that in this passage showed on this one its difficulty to make a qualitative leap, we must take note to attack and resolve it. There he is, so... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u66	If you want, you can deliver the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u67	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I thank you very much for having accepted such a difficult role at a dramatic time for the country. You represent the country that wants to rise again, the country that with a blow of kidneys understood the importance of competence, training to get to be competent, responsibility, sacrifice and humility; pillars that have rebuilt our country in the post-war period. The importance of training and studies is back in his words. I remember how many times my friends told me that at the age of thirty, they had been studying for twenty-four years and working for ten, as tens of thousands of young doctors did in my own situation. You don't buy credit online. On the other hand, we have seen people who are not competent to occupy important roles, with much arrogance and often even perhaps bad faith, if this is established. We have seen wheelchairs abandoned in schools, medical devices not usable, super-paid syringes and, fortunately, we will not see unnecessary primroses for essential vaccinations. Our country has lost the social elevator that thanks to the training allowed many young people to build their future and their family. We have 14 million people with an average license and, above all, two million young people aged 15 to 29, who have a record in Europe, who do not work and do not study; a lost generation. Screaming politics only serves to have a temporary consensus, it does not solve problems, it becomes a bar policy. Politics at this time has been mortified by incompetence, tweets, Facebook ads at midnight. Parliament has been mortified, but now we no longer want to accuse anyone, we want to look ahead (the Ministry of Reconciliation would like us), we do not want to turn back because we do not want to become statues of salt, but we want proudly to contribute to his work and to the work of his Government for a better future for the country. We also count on his courage to keep the line straight and lead the government to the objectives set out in his report and the policy points he has outlined. Congratulations, we're with you. Good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u69	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote for the new government today, while the Italians, one year after the appearance of Covid, are still fighting against the virus and not dying of hunger. President Mattarella's call for all political forces present in Parliament to give confidence to a high-profile government, precisely to cope with the emergency situation that the entire nation is experiencing, saw the League respond promptly. An immediate response that did not put vetoes on who should or should not be part of the new majority. On the other hand, those who had put vetoes precisely on the presence of the League in the formation of the new Government, once it became the backbone of the new majority, had to reverse and find justifications to say the least embarrassing. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the time of the political flag, but the time of responsibility for the common good. Each of us must give up our garden because the future of the entire nation is at stake. Someone called Salvini's choice to support the Draghi government a reversal in the League's policy towards Europe and on immigration. In fact, the League hasn't changed its mind about either of these issues. As far as Italy is concerned, it cannot and must not be left alone to manage the phenomenon of immigration and the European countries must play their part. During the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union, German Interior Minister Seehofer met his counterparts in July 2020 at an online conference to discuss security and immigration issues. Mr Seehofer called on European colleagues to work out and agree on a better and fairer solution for the distribution of migrants rescued at sea. He said it was shameful that the European Union has not yet found a solution to this phenomenon after about five years of the so-called migration crisis. "Every landing requires scrupulous efforts to achieve a redistribution of migrants between Member States," said Seehofer, "and every time only a small number of Member States are ready to do so," he added, pointing out that: "the European Union cannot leave Italy, Malta, Greece and Spain alone to address this problem. "This is a situation that is not worthy of the European Union," he said. Europe is a community of values. Respect for human dignity and human rights is the most important thing and the prevention of deaths in the Mediterranean is our common objective, he said in a note at the end of the conference. Mr Seehofer therefore called on Europe to adopt a pragmatic approach for those arriving at its external borders and announced that he wanted to bring new impetus to the issue of immigration by making it one of the priority objectives of the German Presidency of the European Union. Well, the objectives set by Seehofer are the same as our objectives. We are waiting for what has been announced, indeed we are waiting for words to be moved to action. What the German Minister has said is what we have always said: Italy cannot be left alone to manage the phenomenon of immigration, since the borders of Italy are the borders of Europe, so every European country plays its part. What is expected today from Europe is a change of pace, a proper management of immigration, which means that what applies to France or Germany also applies to Italy. [[Applause]] , therefore immediate relocations, thus avoiding situations such as that of Lampedusa, which have nothing to do with respect for human dignity and human rights. The time has come for every European country to take on the burden that has so far been the sole responsibility of Italy. The purpose of this Government through you, President, is precisely this: as a European Government you will be able to defend the interest of Italians better than has been done so far. Among the challenges you have mentioned, we find negotiations on the new Pact on Migration and Asylum. Well, the time has ended when Italy is considered the Cinderella of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u71	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u72	President Draghi, to date you have represented everything I have opposed in recent years: a long career in institutions interspersed with a break in Goldman Sachs, with a single recurring point: the financial stability of markets and investors. Too bad that too often citizens have been the object of the investment. That financial stability that has seen you as the protagonist in the era of privatisation, which, on the one hand, has led our public debt to decline, on the other, has taken away great opportunities for growth. Not to mention his season in Banca d'Italia, during the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, of which we still pay the bill. Everyone recognizes the merit of quantitative easing as President of the ECB, but the European Central Bank is also synonymous with the euro, because of which, from evening to morning, we have seen our prices doubled and our salaries halved. For me - and I believe for a number of colleagues - today is one of the hardest days we have had since we entered the institutions. We've moved from a political government to a technical government disguised as a politician. All of us have listened and have often taken up the words of the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, who from the beginning of this pandemic reminded us of responsibility and unity. Instead, we saw what happened: violent clashes in this House, the exploitation of every argument to exasperate the souls, until we came to drop a government because, as it is said, the ideas were different. [[Applause]] Colleagues, do we think it's gonna work out now? May our ideas, in an instant, all be on the same side? I hope so, for the good of the country. There is no majority or opposition at this time. It is a government of national unity, which will see us engaged for a year, 18 months at most. We put on the table the measures to be taken immediately: decree ristori, previewing the gradual restart of all the social and economic activities; update of the pandemic plan and definition of the recovery plan. [[Applause]] Another fundamental issue, Mr Draghi, is that of European constraints. The next few years cannot be planned unless we have the confidence that the Stability and Growth Pact will be changed, removing these constraints. We have seen the effects on Greece and today the whole European Union realises that austerity is not possible in times of crisis. The State has a duty to accompany its citizens out of the crisis, in order to enable them, subsequently, to contribute, according to their own possibilities and choices, to the progress of the State itself. What about sovereign debt and private debt accumulated during the pandemic crisis? Even the banking union doesn't work that way. Our entrepreneurial fabric, made by small and micro enterprises, is totally different from what we find in the rest of Europe and is unable to recover liquidity from the market without the contribution of the banking system. [[Applause]] European banking rules need to be amended now. It's been a tough year. In addition to the pandemic, an unprecedented social and economic crisis. We have seen how difficult it is to combine everything: health and economics, freedom and restrictions, but we cannot start from scratch. We must continue with the work we have done so far, with citizenship income, support for businesses and workers, the 110% superbonus and the 4.0 transition plan, in order to avoid finding ourselves, once out of the crisis, without competitive entrepreneurs and people in irreversible poverty. I am part of Movimento 5 Stars and, in recent years, we have represented for many the confidence and hope of a better future. Today we must continue to do so. Through the Rousseau platform, our members decided to support it. For me, I tell you quietly, it was hard to accept it and reach a decision, but there are times when you have to go further and decide. Politics have a duty to decide. Personally, I have decided to implement the words of President Mattarella, to respect the outcome of the vote of our members and to grant her today the trust, giving life to this Government. It will not, however, be a blank trust and forever. I will be careful and attentive to every measure and only when I consider that the measures you propose will guarantee a better future for my country will I be on your side. Otherwise, I will be the first to call your attention to changing them. While waiting for your first steps, I wish you good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u74	Mr Draghi, you are about to become the Premier with the greatest trust ever recorded in the history of the Republic. It is an exceptional record, especially for those who have never presented themselves - not once - to the electoral judgment, even if this seems to become a custom for Italy, the only democratic country in the world where the electoral test is considered a nuisance to avoid, especially when the left is given loser in all predictions. The most amazing record won him the very day of his office: you are the first President of the Council in charge of our history to have instantly gained confidence from all political forces - except one, mine - even before knowing the program and government team. It is a completely closed box credit opening, unprecedented, certainly based on his person, but which is also certainly outside the rules of our democracy. Perhaps too many commentators have forgotten in these first days of frantic geography that Italy is a parliamentary democracy and not plebiscytic, in which moreover the polls and the ratings of liking have replaced the plebiscite. In all parliamentary democracies that respect majority and opposition are not formed on the basis of an act of faith towards a single person, however authoritative it may be, but on the basis of comparison on programmes and ideas. To forget this elementary rule means to open the door to transformation and to qualunquism; it means to condemn oneself to paralysis, because there is no fundamental decision on the goal that we want to achieve. The chaos of these first days of your government is a unfortunately significant prelude. Massimo Cacciari explained this very clearly in the newspaper "La Stampa" a few days ago, with an article with an emblematic title: "Dedemocracy last act", in which he wrote: Reforms, like all decisive acts, in times of peace, as war, whether economic crises or pandemics, can only be undertaken by strong political majorities that feel themselves involved in a common vision and a common destiny. That is why, in our opinion, it was a serious mistake to give up the democracy of alternation. Especially in times of crisis, democracy, on the contrary, must be strengthened, and this is the main reason why Brothers of Italy have chosen the path of opposition. We have done so in order to guarantee, within the limits of our forces and having as sole objective the national interest, the democratic dialectic, without which democracy is destined to end up in the swamp of unanimity of facade. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful because, if politics renounces its function, the risk is that other powers will take over in its place, which all too often, rather than the will of the people, will respond to a lot of other interests. The most naive - or perhaps the smartest, who knows - wanted to explain to us that this vacation of politics would, however, allow the creation of the Government of the best. Well, with all due respect, I think a lot of people were very disappointed when the list of ministers came out of the box - to your business - they would say from the package. Nine ministers of the twenty-one of the Conte- bis Government have been confirmed, including those of foreign, interior and health, who alone - and to the silence of others - testify to a continuity even embarrassing between his Government and the previous one. Continuity is even more evident when one considers the disproportionate prevalence of PD, which, between political ministers and fake technical ministers, can undoubtedly boast the majority component in its Council of Ministers, without considering that even the ministers of Forza Italia, strictly without portfolio, and even a couple of those of the League seem to be chosen specifically among the less unwelcome personalities on the left. This further confirms the hegemony of the PD, a party that is however only the fourth in number of MPs among those who support it in its government. I am sure that with such a Government it will be very easy for you to proceed towards the transfer of sovereignty that you wanted to put at the center of your programmatic relationship; a transfer of sovereignty to which, however, as you know, Brothers of Italy remains firmly opposed. On the contrary, I believe that it will have a few more difficulties in reversing the proportion so far adopted by the majority of its majority between productive expenditure and welfare expenditure, which - as you know better than I do - is shamelessly unbalanced in favour of the second. You know that only in the last year has the government spent, in many cases wasted, more than 150 billion euros in what you, as an economist, called bad debt. I firmly hope that Italy will not be forced to change its mind about this. One last joke about returns, which you mentioned in your report. I invite you to read well the immigration decree of last October, with the signature of the Minister of the Interior (that of then and that of today, because it is the same person, Minister Lamorgese). That decree opened the door to whoever is illegally arriving in Italy. I fear that, more than return, you will be forced to deal with the social tensions that a reception of unprecedented proportions is bound to worsen frighteningly, at a time when millions of citizens have collapsed below the poverty line. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u76	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are countless and well-known studies which have undoubtedly shown that the South is still heavily discriminated against by the central state. The European Union itself, in granting Italy EUR 209 billion for recovery, has recognised that the South of our country is the largest underdeveloped area in Europe as a whole. Yet, President Draghi, the formation of his Government once again manifests a serious disattention towards the South, which is not represented in his group, completely with Northist traction. Mr. Draghi, all the major anti-mafia district directions in our country have for months launched the alarm on recovery fund, which is likely to turn into recovery clan, because the mafias are organizing to get their hands on this money, as they did forty years ago with those of Irpinia. We don't learn anything. Today Libera has published a study that says that 83 percent of Italians think that in these classrooms politics favors the mafia. Yet there is nothing in his speech, nothing about the mafia and the fight against organised crime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u77	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you have reminded us of responsibility and cooperation as a figure of the reasons for our 'yes'. But you have traced a path and an analysis that I am not neutral and we thank you for that. That is also why we are not at the sunset of politics. You have started from the unbreakable European and Atlanticist choice and it is in this Europe and now that you have called us, for this reason it is not neutral, a Europe that is beginning to be political and not only monetary, which is probably obliged to do so also by the pandemic emergency. I do not agree with anyone who derudes or underestimates the fact that someone today who is in the majority and before he was in opposition can stand there on this Europe, unlike past positions. The real and high politics, useful to the country, is the one that manages to move balances and positions, obviously respecting the views of all. I think it is not by chance that many colleagues, especially the women of the League, have put the issues of work at the centre of their intervention. I think we can have a lot of discussion about this, because the facts are stubborn. What, then, is the Europe to which you have referred, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and which has expressed itself in the lines of the recovery plan? These are the lines of a Europe that thinks there is a collective responsibility for the climate emergency, as you have reminded us, and the solutions to resist and overcome the health drama of the pandemic, which is also social and economic. With regard to the ecological transition, of course, we must not stop at the definition: it means industrial policy, work, research and care; it keeps these figures together and invests in work, particularly in quality. Here comes the role of the public hand, with investments and fiscal policies, on which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have drawn very precise lines, with the progressiveness of the tax levy, which certainly takes into account a world that has changed and considers which classes must be not only to be supported but on which to invest. So it is certainly not about the fiscal progressivity that our constituents thought about, as far as the indications on the classes are concerned, but the principle is obviously the same. Then there are the issues of humanitarian protection and refugees, which must be taken care of, and women. We are very keen on this point and we have included it as one of the main proposals of the Democratic Party. We know that gender quotas are not enough: we think that they are a necessary condition, but we know that they are not enough, because we have heard it on our skin. As for the public lever and the reconstruction, you rightly recalled the post-war era as a paradigm, a great moment of reconstruction, which saw a great rebirth, especially in our country, because there was everything to rebuild. The analogy with today is that there is everything to innovate: it is here that public and private investment and research and the creation of quality work are engaged and this is where the civic and moral ransom lies. Forgive me, Mr President-in-Office, if for a moment I address your person and not your role. I hope to remain within the limits, but I would like to make a contribution on one point. Today we are in a very symbolic era and she too is fully in this paradigm. I want to say mine: its great value, its great contribution and the generosity with which it has put itself in the field - of course you know - do not only refer to its great competence; its history speaks, with reference to the use of the public lever and to the battles that can and must be done, which are obviously political battles. I believe that, from this point of view, this symbol is very much felt by the Italians, who put a lot of trust in it. I shall conclude with the last remarks. On support for employment he made very clear and far from neutral comments, also saying that there is a need for selection. We discuss this, but when you lose a job or close production centers, you need to immediately have another job qualified and guaranteed by state policies: these are the active labour policies. A final conclusion: in recognizing as ours the contents and the approach it has given, we are not participating in marking the territory of a political part: keeping the point on these very clear directions and on these traces is our contribution to the stability of the government. In reply, we [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u78	Senator Rossomando, you can deliver the full text of your speech, so that it can be annexed to today's report. Colleagues, I suspend the session until 4.15 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.30 p.m. and resumed at 4.19 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u79	Welcome, Mr. Draghi. Welcome. Today he has given this Parliament and the country the most powerful vaccine: hope. Today, if we close our eyes, we can finally imagine the future, the future of Italy, of Italians, but above all of our children - it is nice to hear the young people put at the centre - and, if one can imagine one thing, it means that it can be realized. With your speech, Mr Draghi, you have confirmed - if ever needed - that today we are faced with the extraordinary person we expected. He spoke with his head and heart, with firmness and emotion, demonstrating that he can be the right person and that he wants to give our country the cure, precisely in the sense of care and dedication to those who love one another, with a sensitivity that has managed to make everyone feel, but just everyone, understood in his thought. We welcome the new government team that sees all forces deployed side by side in the country's exclusive interest. We live an exceptional moment and, at times like this, we need exceptional actions and a strong, authoritative, far-sighted and composite Government in the best sense of the term, because differences, when they do not divide, exalt thoughts and actions. In this context, Europe intervenes with a recovery fund of colossal dimensions that, in order to become a recovery plan, requires immediate actions to simplify procedures, investment and vision. You are great when you are humble and you have the ability to listen and share. You, President Draghi, impressed us on the three pillars on which you declared that you will merge your action, which are competence, courage and humility: competence, to fully understand every issue; courage, to act with determination; humility, to listen to every single voice that arises, with the skill of being able to make the ideal synthesis so as not to leave anyone behind. I would like to tell you many things, but time is tyrant and so I focus on two areas that I have always followed - the environment and the school - on which the line of Forza Italia is clear: a revolutionary work is needed. As far as the environment is concerned, my heart has been filled by hearing his speech, as Forza Italia has the same rational, secular, liberal, concrete and reformist approach, based on sustainable development that cannot fail to support technological innovation. A special Ministry was born and Forza Italia is convinced that the private initiative is to be accompanied and supported in the path of the transition. I would like to move on to the second point by asking the Presidency to be able to deliver the full text of the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). The second point concerns trust and freedom for school, a pillar of society. We would like the true revolution, realizing that freedom of educational choice through the great alliance between state school and peer school. Mr Draghi, allow me to conclude the speech by greeting you in the manner of my people from Bergamo, who have never lowered their heads: my wheel, President Draghi, my wheel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u80	Senator Pittoni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u81	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a number of passages in the education commitments provided for in the contract of the first government of this legislature, according to which, in recent years, reforms involving the school world have proved inadequate and often inadequate... One of the essential components for the proper functioning of the education system is represented by school staff. The excessive precariousness and constant frustration of the expectations of our teachers are key points to be addressed for a real revival of our school. It will therefore be necessary to ensure, also through a transitional phase, a revision of the system of recruitment of teachers, in order to ensure, on the one hand, the overcoming of the criticalities that in recent years have led to a chronic precarious and, on the other hand, an effective training system. As a League, this is the battle that we have launched on the school, opening up also to a healthy collaboration between state schools and peers, if nothing else because the latter have the spaces that in the current state of emergency sometimes lack to those state. We believe that the use of the resources of the recovery fund for education must have the ambition to make a decisive contribution to the training of our children, ensuring homogeneous, efficient and quality services throughout the national territory. To this end, resources should primarily be devoted to ensuring an adequate teaching staff, so as to ensure a positive assessment, as set out in the guidelines, where the creation of public goods is favoured, including education and training. The answer, therefore, cannot be given by competitions, for which there are no technical times and which are too unbalanced on knowledge (to simplify, memory), with respect to competence (experience), contrary to the commitment of the transitional phase to the overcoming of the precarious "chronic" phase. Do we really want to start the next school year with all the teachers in their place, returning to guarantee what is a student's right? No less than 120,000 teachers need to be stabilised. The precarious teachers are figures to which the State gives confidence for five, ten, fifteen or twenty years, always postponing the final assumption (the reasons can be imagined). Lost the occasion of the current year, we have prepared a legislative proposal to put order in the rankings for the provision of supplements, at the moment burdened by a quantity of errors (materials and not) that compromise its legal soundness. Since it is from these rankings that it will have to be drawn for permanent recruitment, it is appropriate - in order to avoid complex and exhausting disputes - to make them more adherent to the individual legal situations, in accordance with the constitutional dictation on the necessary good performance of the public administration. Like it or not, at this stage recruitment for titles and services is an obligatory path, provided that, still in the midst of the most serious crisis in the history of the Republic, we do not intend to start without teachers also the next school year. There is another topic that we care about: culture, which, together with its induced, comes to generate 17% of GDP. That should be enough to put it at the centre of the country's restart project. It's not just jobs: culture is much more; it's our roots, what unites Italy in a mosaic of differences that the world envys us, a wonderful synthesis of genius and creativity. We promote the many places not yet included in the great cultural attractors, we value - in a respectful and eco-sustainable way - the paths that cross the country and tell it; we protect the workers of the show, bent by the pandemic crisis that hit them with particular hardness: they were the first to close and will probably be the last to start again. For a country like Italy it would be a serious mistake not to deal with it. Culture is the first great social garrison: it strengthens communities. We cannot miss the myriad of theatrical companies, artists and musicians that make up the fabric from which the great works that represent us of the world are born. We must protect the culture of Made in Italy, in design and fashion, with the many small and medium-sized companies in the sector in the sights of foreign funds in search of the deal. We are committed to what is needed for the audiovisual, great attractor and multiplier of investments; we promote, through the Agency for the promotion abroad and the internationalization of Italian companies (ICE), our music in the world. We have appreciated, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your passage on the protection of cultural heritage from climate change; this is an issue which the League has promoted on several occasions, including on a parliamentary motion. Culture can really restart the country, let's not miss this opportunity [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u82	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u83	Mr President, today the Senate is called upon to express its confidence in the government chaired by the President of the Council of Draghi, so I asked for action to express the reasons for what will be my vote and that of the Group to which I belong. The Movimento 5 Stars is born - we are born - to bring new air into the parliamentary classrooms, to restore respectability, legality and transparency, and we have done so: we have succeeded thanks to the great push that comes from below, from the citizens, from a huge desire for change and improvement. I am here to testify to this democratic and participatory nature, that sense of community that has distinguished us and has allowed us to get here and to carry out a large part of our programme. And so, again this time, we asked citizens to participate: to the large number of active citizens who inform themselves and actively participate in the events and choices of the 5 Star Movimento we asked to speak about whether or not to be part of this Government, evaluating all the elements and above all the outcome of the consultations. And here, President Draghi, I want to be very clear: today's is a careful trust, it is not a blank trust. We will be ready to verify it day after day; our trust is loyal, but vigilant, based on the acceptance of proposals and conditioned by the choice of priorities. Justice, environment, social inclusion and ecological transition must not be empty words, but filled with content to be checked constantly, so that there is a correct vision of the future, with the commitment to a strong and united recovery of the country. The Movimento 5 Stars, in this careful garrison of non-negotiable content, is not willing to take steps backwards on the reform of the prescription launched by us or on fundamental issues such as the protection of the income of citizenship, because, today more than yesterday, no one must remain behind. It is under these conditions, as spokesperson for all the Movimento 5 Stars, that I will respect the value expressed by the majority of our base; a yes that I take as the result of a difficult and tearing decision-making process, but also as a precious value, because it represents the collective consciousness, represents the expression of a great community that lives and decides together. This democratic footprint is a unique value, which no other political force in the world can boast of; a value that unites with the loyalty and self-denial that we have always shown and which has allowed us to contaminate democracy and sense of duty throughout the political landscape. Going towards the creation of the new Ministry of the ecological transition, which will include in the environmental sphere all the necessary and functional skills to the objective, brings with it a change of historical perspective, beyond the political positions of each. The most important choices for the future of the country will have to be filtered through the environmental lens, ecological and energy transition; we will have to talk about the future linked to alternative sources of energy to fossil and decide what projects we intend to put in place today for decarbonization. Aiming on renewable energy is a theme dear to us since the birth of Movimento; this is what we consider the backbone of the nascent government. The world of tomorrow, in the coming generations, requires new processes and new organizational solutions, also in mobility, as especially in technological innovation aimed at reducing emissions and improving the quality of life of all of us and of those who will come; all this requires new skills. I welcome the call you made to confirm the large funds allocated to the strengthening of higher technical institutes, thus giving the opportunity to many young people to train adequately to enter the world of work and enterprise in a challenging way and in line with the fast socio-economic changes already begun. That is what we are looking at today, as it was yesterday. In particular today, that the Covid-19 still causes so many victims and so many people are in conditions of suffering and deserve full and exclusive attention. For families, workers, businesses and all those who live with apprehension these days and ask for answers, initiatives and concrete actions for the future, the Movimento is there and will do its part. We will work with commitment and correctness, but also with attention and with a critical spirit, so that our country can be taken out of one of the most difficult periods of its recent history as soon as possible. The phase that opens now must be for everyone - and I say all - of construction, responsibility, foresight and will have at the center content dear to us: environmental sustainability, common goods, energy transition, starting from the important results already achieved. In addition to the citizenship income, I am thinking of the 110% superbonus, the cut of parliamentarians, the vitality, the golden pensions, the decree of dignity, the stop of drilling, the law of saving the sea, the climate decree, the cut of the tax wedge, the compensation to the scams of the banks, the law of corrupt sweeps, the plan of transition 4.0 and much more. It is from here that we want and must start again, Professor Draghi, from the results obtained and from the themes already outlined by the Government of President Conte, to which all our affection and gratitude goes. [[Applause]] On the continuity of action, which you have emphasized, we will be vigilant and we will verify that the funds of the recovery fund are spent quickly and well, with the utmost commitment, to build the country that our grandchildren deserve. We still have an opportunity to redesign the future. Let's not waste it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u84	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u85	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the programme of government which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have just described, if implemented at all points, you will certainly be able to trace the bow back, in line with the words of President Mattarella and the position of his Executive in a strongly pro-European and atlantist setting. The new Ministry of the ecological transition will have the important function of linking every initiative with the environmental and energy theme, and it is a great step forward. Emissions continue to rise and temperatures rise; a paradigm shift is needed to address the big issues at stake. The first game is that of decarbonization. Just two months ago, the European Union raised its targets: cutting emissions by 55%, and no more than 40%, by 2030. No less fundamental is the link with agriculture, to which, Mr President, I have devoted and continue to devote great attention. The birth of the European Community was based primarily on agriculture, and in 1992, with the reform of the MacSharry and the principle of conditionality, agriculture was linked to environmental protection well before industry. But today the main problem of relaunching the sector is the coverage of production costs: our farmers very often fail to cover these costs and, consequently, are impoverished, but not because they are not competitive. Unfortunately, agriculture is not mentioned in the debate on green deal in Italy. We welcome the appointment of Mr Patuanelli, who will certainly put this sector back at the centre. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have learned of your high regard for agriculture, but if the transition is to be fair and inclusive, agriculture cannot be excluded from the debate, because it is food, life, nature and culture. It is not enough that the air, the water and the soil are cleaned; food is also fundamental, the good food that can represent the real medicine to strengthen our immune system, very compromised during the epidemic, and to make our body produce the antibodies necessary to protect itself from microorganisms. The saying "we are what we eat" today takes on an even deeper meaning. Eco-sustainable agriculture with less pesticides, antibiotics, hormones and chemical fertilizers can reduce, on the one hand, the enormous health expenditure of European countries and, on the other hand, raise the quality of life and the productivity of citizens, because those who enjoy good health become a great resource for themselves and for their neighbor. The agro-industrial sector, on the other hand, is also one of the main factors of climate change, responsible for about 25% of total greenhouse gas emissions. Today, therefore, it is important a government that defends our mother earth from an ecological crisis, because, as you reminded us in your speech this morning, it was we who ruined the Lord's work. It has been since the 1970s that the Church's social doctrine has always warned us of the uncontrolled exploitation of nature, as Paul VI said. Last in order of time it was Pope Francis who launched the alarm on climate change. The earth - the Pontiff reminds us - is our common home and we have a duty to take care of it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in Italy not everyone is aware that the first to take care of the land are precisely the farmers, a distracted category in our country as precious. Agriculture in Italy has always been considered the cinderella of our economy. However, we must distinguish between those who use industrial agriculture and those who want to develop organic farming, which is more focused on ecosystems. Industrial agriculture has become one of the main causes of soil degradation, loss of organic substances, desertification, scarcity of water, loss of biodiversity, resistance to parasites and antibiotics, pollution of groundwater by Community infringement procedures. These sources of degradation in turn contribute to a number of human health problems for excessive exposure to chemical fertilizers, pesticides and toxic herbicides. Organic farming, on the contrary, is based on crop rotation and soil fertilization, has a very minimal carbon footprint as it does not depend on products derived from fossil fuels. The probability is that it will explode a pandemic also linked to the destruction of the environment; the more we devastate the forests, that is the places where the virus reservoir animals live, the more the probability of a new jump of species. Well therefore his reference to the space that man has taken from nature; in Italy we will have to increase the productive forestation. The data on the biodiversity crisis are dramatic; here too we are talking about a reduction of over 30% on average. That means that we, one species, have taken out a third of all the others. It never happened... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u86	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u87	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, first of all I would like to address you because I have to tell you that it is the only real element of novelty among the benches of the Government. I remind you that until a few days ago a dark lawyer sat in his chair who tried to defend himself, let's say to bring home his own skin, with an obscene market of parliamentarians. Therefore, people like us, intellectually honest, can only see an improvement from this point of view with his presence. But you see, President, if my gaze extends to your fellow travelers and - I open a parenthesis - comrades is not a term I use randomly, then I see, for example, the same Minister of Health, the Minister Hope of the Count Government. The Minister of Health who unfortunately has the very macabre record of the highest number of deaths in Covid in proportion to the population. The Minister of Health who was the same who quickly withdrew a book he had written to self-celebrate for the management of the pandemic. It is the same Minister, Mr President, who invited the Italians to be delators with their neighbours, in full harmony with what was East Germany. If I extend my gaze, President, your Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation is the same as the previous Government, the Government that has put the alliance with a historic country, like the United States of America, on the same level as China, which - if you will allow me - is a ruthless dictatorship. He is the same Minister - in this you, being a cultured person, should be careful - who believed that Russia was a Mediterranean country and that Pinochet was the former dictator of Venezuela. This is your Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. But if I look further, I see the same Minister of the Interior, the same Minister who has canceled the security decrees, the same Minister who has opened the ports to illegal immigration, what, again, has made Italy the refugee camp of Europe; the same Minister who has facilitated in fact that Islamic terrors arrive on this side of the Mediterranean. Mr President, they are not opinions, they are facts because the Nice bomber was a Tunisian who had landed in Lampedusa. So, I'm sorry, but yours is not the Government of the best and I'm sorry, President, that you are the fig leaf of a government of the worst and - if you will allow me - even the usual. In any case, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the Brothers of Italy will have an opposition or, better, a patriotic position and a responsibility because for us the national interest is not one of the possibilities of politics, it is the constituent element of our identity. I want to tell you, President, that as we have been in previous governments, to support businesses, to support workers and families in this period of crisis, we will be on the recovery fund, but that it is not thrown away for ideological welfare. We will be there for the growth of this nation, but explain to his traveling companions that growth is always happy, while the decline is unhappy for a nation. We will be there for an always high defense of the interest of our nation and you, President - I address to you, not to you - will have our votes when you do the right things for Italy and for the Italians. I understand that our position can also be incomprehensible to you, since you have had many meetings these days on Subsecretaries, Ministers and armchairs, while we will give you our votes without asking for anything in return. I have seen, however, that in its majority there was, even in the first acts, a sort of continuity with the habits of the Count Government: we talk about generalized lockdown without a strategy, there are evening announcements to entrepreneurs as the previous President did, the last of which to mountain workers, who knew on the evening that in the morning they could not open, in the absolute indifference of his Government, on the contrary I would use a worse word, in contempt for those who live their work and not thanks to the income of citizenship. We in the opposition tell you to be careful not to come to the police station, that there is no one who wants to use his name to keep playing on the future of the nation. I ask you, Mr President, which side you are on. Will he stand on the side of national interest or subjection to foreign powers, some even non-democratic? Will he stand on the side of those who want development and growth or who continues to believe in subsidies and tips? Will you, Mr President, be for the security of Italians, for the integration of regular immigration (which is what we also want), or will it be against the security of Italians, in the name of "free all" and for the trafficking of human beings? Are you going to be for the tax shock, to free companies, or are you going to be with those who are asking for the assets? President, when a majority is so divided on such profound matters... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u89	Senator, you can deliver the text of your speech. Like everyone else, you can't finish either.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u90	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u91	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a speech is understood by the things that are said, but above all by the things that are omitted. You, President, speak of a government of national responsibility, but this is a political government, because policies are the choices you have to make. It speaks of unity, but I see an arena, where the parties already face each other, from Salvini's attacks to disarticulated answers to the thanks to Count. It was necessary to choose a political area, not a government of all, which is a government of no one. In the key places of the recovery, however, he put technicians markedly of the ultraliberal area, because the technique is never neutral and you know it well. And the Colao plan, which didn't have a majority and found it? What about the project to corporateize the state that you see in your relationship to the G30 in creative destruction? But the state is not a company, the state must guarantee the constitutional rights of all and take care of the country: what will happen with this corporate governance? In this global economic and social crisis, how will we decide which companies will have to be supported and which ones will die because "zombie companies," as you define them? At the ecological transition he has a technical minister, a scientist from Leopolda. I'm afraid this could be a dangerous facade operation, if not a boomerang. France's experience tells us: after the real estate bubble, we live an ecological bubble. The global alarm over overheating has transformed environmental protection into the main argument for the self-legitimization of global capitalism in order to remain quoted on the market. President Draghi, you have a very prestigious professionalism, recognized worldwide. He is one of the top officials of global capitalism and the superpower of the markets. His statement on the death of the European social model is from 2012 and it is true that the conditions have changed since then and the expansionary actions put in place in Europe are the result of his work, for which we thank you. We do not believe, however, that this is due to a conversion to social democracy and ecology, but to the need to do everything possible to save that model of development. We are far from the integral ecology of Pope Francis, who must be structural, revolutionary, to completely convert and overturn the social and development model. These are choices that politics must make, not finance. It talks about transition, but it does not mention the need to revise the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC) of Environmentally Harmful Grants (SAD), of the capacity market. It says hydrogen, but it doesn't specify which. It's about tax cuts. But is this really a good thing for the social body? He says he wants to preserve progressiveness (i.e. the existing one) and not to make it a substantial revision. It speaks of territorial health, but it never speaks the word public. He talks about school and uses terms like "demand" and "offer" and "dream" of technical graduates. It speaks of the Mezzogiorno, but it does not say that much of the funds granted by Europe to our country have been calculated on the territorial gap and that they will have to go to that equation. Of course, looking at the composition of your Government and your team, I do not think I can see that this European constraint will be respected. He's talking about women, and yet there are very few women on his team. The choice of such an enlarged majority decrees the definitive death of politics. It wants to prove, once and for all, that politics is not needed, that it is not able, that technofinance must become a state, that it has already become a state. I hope I am wrong about everything, but, in any case, we are convinced that the country needs an opposition from the left to this Government, because we are not guaranteed the premises of the essential principles that we claim. We believe that the representation and defence of values can and should also be exercised, perhaps above all, by a critical and constructive opposition. We are few in Parliament, but I hope that we will become more and more in the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u92	President Draghi, the Democratic Party will strongly support this government. You will also strongly support the commitment you have made to this country. He will certainly do so, given the authoritativeness of his person, who has been ratified by a professional path at the service of the country and of the countries, but he will do it even more - if he permits - also for the programmatic lines that you have explained this morning. These are lines that define a horizon and demarcate a space. You have used very important terms that define a cultural and political space before it is partisan. He used the term Atlanticism. We are absolutely in favour of this approach and believe in the revival at international level of the policy of multilateralism and, in particular, of the polar star of the alliance of liberal democracies that have political and civil rights at their heart. You have made a very clear remark on this today, and we fully support it. You spoke of Europeanism. President, we believe that the patriots are the Europeans and we are convinced that nationalism is inevitably against our own citizens. Europe is a great space for us. In your speech this morning you asked - I have marked many of the things you have said - the national states to surrender their national sovereignty in order to acquire shared sovereignty. Mr President, we believe that Europe's destiny is a great space and that it must be the United States of Europe, exactly in analogy with the United States of America, with everything that derives from it. Mr President, we are convinced that either Europe is strengthened or Italy is declining. Within this panorama there is the great reasoning, project and common commitment on recovery. We believe that this has a political value for integration and an economic value for competition. For us it is not just a doubling of the ordinary budget of the State. This would be a serious mistake; it is not even a series of rain interventions and, less so, undifferentiated aid to guarantee the already guaranteed. It must be an enzyme, a multiplier and an accelerator of that process of radical change that allows our country and the whole of Europe to be a great area of research, innovation, production of added value, a large internal market and a great place of elaboration of ideas, industrial plans, integrated policies not only humanitarian, but also economic and fiscal. If that is not the case with Europe, Italy will not be. This is the underlying theme. For this reason, as we said before, the patriots are the Europeans for us. We are absolutely convinced of this. The third term you used today and in the previous days is environmentalism. For us, environmentalism is not simply a focus on the environment; it is not even a sectoral approach, but it is precisely the strategic commitment to the ecological transition and the green revolution. We are aware, in fact, that in a sick world humanity cannot remain healthy and we are aware that the three terms you mentioned in reference to the G20 - people, planets and prosperity - are exactly a system that is held together. So, when we talk about ecological transition and green revolution, we talk about industrial policies that look to the future, about labour policies, about what quality is created and which looks ahead and to future generations, about research and innovation policies, aware that technology and science are friends of the environment, of course not at the moment when technoscience becomes myth and replaces the medium at the end, overturning the relationship between human and technique, but at the moment when man has reached a level of cultural awareness so that he can use technology and science in a sound and wise way for the good of himself and the planet. President, I come to the last note. In the Senate we have done a huge job on these issues and we will carry it forward (end of waste, the emergency and so on). In my opinion, a note has been missing in your speech and I would ask you to integrate it: when it comes to regeneration, we must put in place a policy for cities. Cities are the place where people in the world live and will live more and more. We need an urban agenda, we need an organic policy and national governance that has never been there. We need to talk about regeneration, we need to rethink the development model from the cities. On this and on other points you will find us and you will find us at your side. Thank you and good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u93	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are not sitting there today. We believe that there are at least two reasons why he is sitting there as head of government. Professor Draghi, the first reason we want to write to the wisdom - let me say - and to the far-sightedness of the President of the Republic who, on the basis of his experience as a man of the institutions and civil servant, Professor Draghi, considered it appropriate to give the whole country this chance. President Draghi, I would like to focus on the last time you have served the institutions at the European Central Bank. Well, we believe that you have set the milestone with that experience as regards the closure of that circle which you saw in the founding fathers of the European Union, Adenauer, Schuman and De Gasperi, a united and supportive Europe. The quantitative easing went in that direction, we have to tell ourselves clearly: that was a great intuition. Certainly the pandemic accelerated that process. You see, President, Pirandello would say that it is ordinary the day that leaves no trace. You, in your experience, have never spent ordinary days. So let us tell him quite frankly: today, in this Parliament in which you sit, you have found and will find a great consensus on a fundamental principle that founded our Republic. The compass is the European Union; only with a strong European Union are the interests of individual Member States safeguarded. This is the compass, and we have fought on this in this time. I also have to say this for those parties that still express scepticism and that perhaps today do not consider it appropriate to support it. We are convinced that they too, legitimately in opposition today, may find some opportunities in this path to support it. The second reason why you sit there today is because politics has demonstrated in recent times, during this last phase of the pandemic, all its limitations, its inability to get out of the swamp, to put in place the reforms that the country needs and - let me say - has highlighted the distance with the needs of the Italian people. Mr President, it is not true for us today that politics is being silenced. For us today the good policy is exalted, the one in which compromise is also exalted, because the compromise has a noble value when the general interests of the country are placed at the centre, when you do not follow the likes, you do not follow the polls, but - I say it with extreme frankness - you sacrifice the pragmatism of the individual parts in order to elevate the general interest of the country. This is what is happening today. Some people call it "inciucius," which would not happen in Germany for example. Mrs Merkel has been running the Grosse Koalition for ten years, and no one has ever allowed himself to call that "inciucio," in a non-dramatic condition such as the one we are living today. Today we want to exalt the unity of the country and we want to exalt, as I said, good politics. It is important for us, Mr President, to start the recovery plan. Allow me to say this: we need a bureaucratic simplification. A few days ago the Council of State, after fifteen years, gave its definitive start to a public work, small but important: the Pontina. You think, it's been approved for 15 years, and a few days ago the sentence arrived. How can we think of restarting the country with these dramatic delays? [[Applause]] There is another point, Mr President: you spoke of the simple tax system. Let me add that it must be a convenient tax, to which it is better to declare how much you earn, rather than escape: this is a fundamental element. In conclusion, Mr President, on the rest of the world, we call for them not only to be timely but also respectful of the dignity of people. President, today those who want to complicate life for your government want to weaken not you, not your company, but above all the country. Allow me to confirm our support and also to conclude with a phrase by Winston Churchill, which I believe is, rather than a warning, an invitation: Sometimes doing your best isn't enough; we have to do what is necessary. Thank you and good work! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u95	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the country must leave: an immediate change of pace is needed. We must think about unblocking the yards and simplifying the procedures, which have been made too subjective in the application of the Procurement Code. We have to raise Italy's head, starting a country that has been blocked by rules that are too often confused and constantly changing: just think that the procurement code has seen 547 corrections in recent years and has seen the implementation decrees and the single regulation firm on the stake, which had to serve to overcome the guidelines of the National Anti-corruption Authority (NAC). There are works entirely financed, whose implementation is slow or, in some cases, completely blocked, due to Byzantine rules and too long bureaucratic procedures. It is essential to overcome these rules now, derogating from where it is needed. You can cite as examples the Pedemontana, both the Lombardy and the Veneto stretch, the Quadrilatero between Umbria and Marche and the state road 106 Jonica in Calabria. There are also many works that find the so-called financing deficit and in most cases these are works of absolute strategic importance, which are part of the European corridors: think, for example, of the Ti-Bre motorway, the Pontremolese railway and the Rome-Latina motorway. There are, again, interventions on the motorway network, with costs charged to the dealers, but they do not see the light for bureaucratic delays: emblematic is the Gronda of Genoa, of the value of 4.2 billion euros. At this time of economic and health crisis, we need to start again from the strategic sector of infrastructure, which must be the flywheel, to make our country competitive at international level and to recreate the lost jobs. The need, at this time, is to be able to return to life and work: it is up to us to create new opportunities for enterprise and employment. Our task and the reason why we decided to enter this Government, with the pragmatism of the League, based on the experience of many local administrators, is to allow the country system to move from theory to practice, to achieve a development that can serve future generations. The infrastructural development is functional to the Italian system of the transports: that is why you cannot continue to neglect the ports, that they need to investments for 4 billion euros, the airports, that they need of investments for beyond 2 billion euros, and all the section of the logistics. Without sacrificing legality, we must simplify and make procurement processes simple and transparent, reducing the burden on public administration, professionals and businesses, making clear the rules for easy application, avoiding interpretations that lead to disputes, which have as their effect the slowing down of works and, consequently, of our economy. It is not impossible, it is enough to be inspired by what has been done at European level, resetting the ugly copy that has been made of it in our country. We need to take advantage of the opportunity to recover plan and the Olympics of 2026, not as a list of spending, but as a country project and a concrete plan, which brings development. [[Applause]] We need to do quickly, to unlock, to sburocratize, to use the Genoa model, conscientiously, but decisively. This is not the time of the no regardless. It is not a possibility: Italy must be reborn and we will put our souls to do so. Let us not forget also the immediate need for maintenance of the existing, from bridges, roads, public buildings, schools (for too many years, with the constraints linked to local authorities, it has overshadowed their safety). It is time to move on and to give confidence to the thousands of public administrators, who spend their money on their territories. The construction sector has suffered a great deal in recent years: thousands of companies have closed their doors to the crisis, thousands of skills and jobs have faded. To restart the yards means to give new life to a strategic sector for our economy and it means to give back dignity to many, who at this moment have lost hope. For too long, you've been standing still. You need to start again and you need to believe it. Let's start again: time is now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to go straight to the subject: the establishment of the Ministry of the ecological transition, the great novelty of the new government. President Draghi has well illustrated the program of Government, tracing the tracks on which will travel the new supertechnological train, requested by the Movimento 5 Stars. I remember that the five stars are water, environment, transport, connectivity and development. The new Ministry will become the galaxy that includes them. On the other hand, it is in the same definition of ecology the interrelationship between the stars of the Movement, which conveyed the idea of an all-embracing and multifaceted environment in Parliament. And, with the tenacity of the drop piercing the rock, we are breaking obsolete conceptions of splitting socio-economic dynamics that relegate the environment to their contour as an annoying burden. In 2018, Minister Costa launched the slogan "Environment first of all." Thank you, Sergio, for all that you have done; your seeds will bear fruit. [[Applause]] Today we will go further and say: it is all environment. To those who should have doubts, science says that the Sars-CoV-2 was born, spread, causes death and depresses the economy because the environment is sick and is not respected. To those who tempt, we can show the images elaborated by Copernicus Sentinel data on the Po Valley, with a polluting hood that places it at the top for death rates from fine particulates in Europe. To those who still do not understand, we can remind them that science relies mainly on fossil energy sources the global warming and the consequent climatic emergency. We've created a wrong model of development. We have to make up for it. We're very late, even out of time. We reverse the course: development must become sustainable and sustainable. We must rethink the economic models to which we have been accustomed since the first industrial revolution and design them in line with ethical issues and the so-called knowledge economy. Obviously, when we talk about the binary system of stars, environment and development, we talk about energy. We know that we are working hard to bring together in the Ministry of the ecological transition delegations for energy today present in other ministries. Very well, but I hope that the extension of competences and the heavy coordination of all policies concerning the environment will not distract the necessary attention for the protection of the territory and the sea, basic focus of the replaced Ministry. In the President's speech are listed some fundamental issues, but will the protection of the territory and the sea remain a solid pillar of the new Ministry? Will the hydrogeological disaster, soil consumption, internal water bodies, sea and coasts, waste, land of fires, natural parks and biodiversity be central here? Will the mitigation, reduction and prevention of natural risks in a geologically fragile country have primary attention in the Ministry of the ecological transition? Will they be kept in that Ministry and even raised or could they risk migrating to erroneous mission structures? Only this Ministry can give organicity of strategic interventions for the security of the territory in favor of prevention. The protection of citizens and the territory from environmental risks is one of the issues to be resolved in order to revive national development. Will the geological mapping project be continued, which is fundamental for the planning of the territory? Will the knowledge of the territory really make a qualitative leap? Will it be supported by platforms such as Internet of things, with the use of artificial intelligence and with ready computing? Time should be set for each option. Time is not an independent variable in environmental systems, also because how could we talk about ethological transition with a polluted, abused, insecure, not sufficiently monitored and known territory? The recovery plan is an extraordinary opportunity to bridge the delays accumulated in the knowledge, repair and security of the territory, without which there can be no sustainable and sustainable development. I am thinking of the completion of geological mapping, of a major research project (geosciences, energy and the environment), of adequate funding for the fight against hydrogeological failure, the seismic safety of private and public buildings (schools, schools, schools). In conclusion, today with the Ministry of the ecological transition we will enter the future. We have to do this decisively. We erase barbaric predatory logics. With the mildness of the strong and with the power of love we care for and protect the environment for our well-being [[Applause]] , but mainly to deliver it beautiful and livable to future generations. I have thrown my heart beyond the obstacle, with the confidence that the Government will collect it gently and make it pulsate in favor of the environment and Italy. Good work, President Draghi. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u99	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the third parliamentary government - as you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - is based not on political alchemies to which the parties must give up at this time, but on the conviction and broadest possible support of the Chambers. Each Member of Parliament today in assessing the vote of confidence must relate not to the narrow tactical patterns of political formations, but to their direct responsibility towards the Italians, who have been exemplary in facing the last dramatic year with the right spirit of unity. The virus is the enemy of all and none of us is allowed to hide behind the announced magnitude of the majority vote. Of course, it is permissible to oppose the Government, but without pretentious arguments and ideological prejudices. In this respect, I share Mr Nugnes' wish that you should talk about green hydrogen on the environment, that you should talk about public school and so on. Your speech, President Draghi, was very broad and I shared every step of it. As far as the fight against the pandemic is concerned, we must get out of the trench from which we have so far fought the spread of the virus with enormous human, social and economic losses and we must act promptly, using every available resource: distance, swabs, tracking, vaccination campaign. In fact, it is not conceivable any form of coexistence with the virus, given its present danger, and the operational and strategic choices cannot be a bureaucratic mediation, which might appear adequate and proportional, but which is ineffective from the health point of view and is devastating for the economic and social fabric of the country. The effectiveness of the vaccination campaign depends on the lowering of the rate of spread of the infection, which also preserves the risk of variants. Reduction of the rate of spread of the virus and acceleration of the vaccination campaign are commonplace in order to be able to safely reopen public and private activities and, among them, the same school. In an extraordinary situation such as the current one, we need to assess in good time - time is important - and courageous political decisions must be made within Europe, and we have to go so far as to legitimately demand the transfer of patents in order to increase the production of vaccines. You said well: it was unimaginable that vaccines could be created in a year; however, the result is also the result of the mountain of public resources invested in research mainly by the United States and the European Union (about 80 billion). The global pandemic situation and the consequent need for public health seem to be a legal precondition for States to exercise the right to produce vaccines in other pharmaceutical companies, recognising royalty to discoverers. With regard to our country's foreign policy, it was right, Mr President-in-Office, to confirm that Europeanism and Atlanticism are elements that are not available for the political level, being now an institutional reference for our country, as well as the irreversible choice of the euro. Atlantism must be combined with strong Europeanism played by equals with Germany and France, which, like Italy, are the founding countries of Community Europe. This is a return to the natural riverbed of international alliances in which Italian independence is played in a dynamic balance between Europe and the United States. This independence cannot be achieved in a foreign policy characterised by confusing bilateralism. In the within of the plans that I think must have relief there are those thesis to valorize the attitude of our portualità - I have already heard it recall - if unitarily well coordinated, to be the door of entry of the products coming from the Far East, in logistic synergy with the railway transport for the distribution of the goods in all Europe. I'm gonna finish. I share the reform programme presented and the ambition to contribute to the transformation of Europe. The policy is not to please everyone, but to set a course, to explain it clearly and to follow it. President Draghi, you always speak with your clarity and we, Europeans, who were born out of a sense of responsibility, will not fail to support you. Good work and good wind. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u101	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u102	Mr. President Draghi, welcome. I have no doubt that yours will be an experience of which you will be proud. I say this because I have three factors that drive optimism: a government of broad unity, a change in the political scene and, above all, a decisive Europeanism. Firstly, crises generate opportunities. The phase that opens today is definitely an opportunity for Italy. We don't have to go around: it wasn't an easy delivery at all. To his predecessor we must recognize the honour of arms: however, two professors yes, yet two completely different seasons. It has been written that your government represents the end of politics, but I, like you, disagree deeply. Those who think of it keep the evidence and forget that the accounts are done, in politics as in life, always in the end. Nothing was born by chance. Opportunities must be cultivated, if necessary with a thoughtful gamble, as has been done, sometimes with a heresy that immediately takes you away from the popular feeling, and then regains it. The exit from the crisis was by no means a leap into the dark. A high-profile solution has been found thanks to the long vision of the President of the Republic, but a political decision made in Parliament, which the Quirinale has linked to a manual interpretation of the Italian Constitution. It is not death: on the contrary, it is the exaltation of politics and the triumph of law. You have faced a country bent by the crisis, with social relations of strength redesigned with brutality and, more than by merit, by privilege. Nevertheless, he faces a civilized nation that has rolled up its sleeves and wept its loved ones without giving up on life, although he has seen the coffers parade dead on Army trucks. The cure is that humanitarian reformism that was the compass of his intervention this morning: today with school priorities, mass vaccination and interventions to create work and reduce inequalities and then tomorrow, starting with spending well the money of the recovery plan. Secondly, its Government, President Draghi, has no precedent at all and does not resemble only partially the De Gasperi Governments of the Second World War: there at least there was a common feeling of son of the liberation struggle, here no. It has no precedent even for the changes it will bring about in the Italian political framework because since last Saturday the second or third Republic, that is to say, is nothing more than a twilight event. It is the end of a system, but it is not the police station. The potentials are all there to build a democracy where finally conservatives and reformists confront each other, where one of the most aberrant factors of the last thirty years of the Italian political story is eliminated once and for all: the delegitimization of the opposition, the transformation of the opponent into a political enemy and, consequently, tones from hypocritical Puritanism. Precisely because the geography of the powers is being redesigned during the passage, the centrality of the Parliament of which you have guaranteed is indispensable in order to create that republican spirit necessary to overcome the emergency. The Socialists will be there. The third point - and I ask you for only 30 seconds, Mr President, to conclude my speech - is the Europeanist framework in which your Executive is set: a European Union with a common budget in close relationship with the United States, in order to best support the Chinese challenge. It's the highway. There's no other way. It allows Italy to look with optimism at the future; it puts order in the framework of alliances and it will force the parties of its coalition to relate to the great European cultural political traditions and - if God wills - it will end up in this House at the festival of applause in Maduro and there will be more prudence... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u103	Senator, you can deliver the text of your speech. I cannot, to derogate from a principle that I have applied for all. I'm sorry. The Presidency shall authorise you to deliver your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u104	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u105	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u106	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you began your reasoning by quoting our national emergency, namely the Covid, the virus, and supported your reasoning by quoting dramatic numbers: about 92,000 deaths, a year and a half or two less of life expectancy. There are many other dramatic issues that we could have mentioned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would like to make a logical point: you come from the world of numbers, the world of results, the world of goals achieved, budgets, precise and timely analyses. Your consideration, to which I will obviously add others, imposes two solutions: either you immediately change your Minister of Health, or you change your name to that Ministry, because your Minister of Health accredits and brings to your Government, which does so, a series of failures. This is absolutely dramatic compared to the whole world and Europe. We attacked the pandemic with two strands of action: the first concerned restrictions on individual freedoms, freedom of enterprise (the famous closures) and on that side we abounded, we were truly and dramatically precise and I stop here. On the other hand, the fight against the pandemic, we have committed an endless series of errors, delays, and very serious omissions that can be taken into account in the extraordinary result of which your Minister is obviously an objective and partly subjective bearer. I am referring to a path, one year after the emergency, which takes stock of the numbers you mentioned. The first mistakes were on the swabs. This House has adopted a unitary resolution on this issue which has been disappeared. We have recorded at least five or six times fewer swabs than we should have done; we have failed tracking, which was one of the three pillars of the World Health Organisation. We have completely failed him because we have carried on that story of the Immuni app, which you know for sure. We have not yet transmitted the medical protocols at the level of the Higher Institute of Health and Ministry. You mentioned, President Draghi, the protocols of home care (the famous ADI), but we have not yet transferred to the Regions the protocols for home care of the Covid. We, President Draghi, are failing vaccines, we are failing the way out of the pandemic; and we are doing so in a very dangerous way. The last seven-day mobile average of double-dose vaccinees - the source is "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore), a newspaper that you obviously know well - is 14,000 vaccinees per day; at this rate it will take seven years, eleven months and eighteen days to cover 70 percent of the Italian population. His Minister's goal would be achieved on 2 January 2029 on the basis of these numbers, i.e. the last seven-day moving average. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is clear that you have probably been uninformed about the performance of this Ministry, at a time when we are still impacting today the biggest post-war emergency, as you yourself mentioned. Save us, President Draghi, the arranged combination of Hope and Arcuri. Save it for us, because Italy could succumb within a few months of this. You need to change paradigm. A better relationship between the State, the Regions and the professions is needed with the listening of the professions. Resources for the purchase of patents must be released. We need to get out of the trap of the agreement in Europe and free up resources for the purchase of patents for the autonomous production of vaccines, such as Sputnik V, a vaccine that has the same characteristics of sensitivity and effectiveness as modern vaccines and Pfizer. We must obviously review the complex of the Commissioner's structure, built to measure for Arcuri and for his actions: it must be reviewed completely, because today it is an obstacle to the structure of volunteering and the Prociv, which you have rightly mentioned, and it blocks everything. President Draghi, you will have to deal with an unanimism of facade and you know it. Do not remedy with anti-politics, do not listen to bad advisors, but remedies with the ability to stand to problems and propose their solution; serious and concrete solutions to problems. Only in this way will he be able to defeat and counter the unionism of the facade. Good work, ma'am. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Marzio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u108	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Government, ladies and gentlemen, if Senator Gallone would allow me, I would like to associate myself with your words of welcome and appreciation for President Draghi and immediately move on to the thing that is most dear to me. As a health director of the hospital, I express the grave malaise of the National Health System, which has been abandoned in the past years and which is now facing an epochal challenge. President Draghi, there is a need for vaccinations to be completed within eight weeks; it is not conceivable that we should follow the times that have been adopted so far. You know perfectly well what is the risk of variables and mutations that could affect not only contagiousness, but also lethality. Action must be taken as quickly as possible. But you don't save yourself: health problems are planetary problems. In 1948, together with the Italian Constitution and the National Health Service, the World Health Organization launched the health project for all in 2000, with the aim of guaranteeing health to the whole planet. All this on the vaccination plan happened only in the case of Dr. Sabin, who gave up patenting his vaccine. Europe must take care of a planetary strategy for the vaccination of the whole of humanity, if no one else thinks about it. I think Professor Caffè would have shared a strategy based on an investment in philanthropy - this is an oxymoron - that could change the destinies of the planet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u109	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u110	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am speaking on behalf of one of the many Italian resources: our communities in the world, unpaid ambassadors of Made in Italy. Italians around the world represent a great network of resources that we must enhance for the post-pandemic recovery of Italy. Unfortunately, in Italy we cannot fully understand this great potential and we often limit ourselves to a nostalgic and charitable vision, I dare say paternalistic. It's time to move on. Given the shortness of time, I will only give small examples. Tourism return: abroad there is a great interest also for small villages and many young people who come to Italy and would like to visit the places of origin of their grandparents and great-grandparents. We must make those places known and make them accessible with services and reception facilities. Together with Minister Garavaglia we will have to think seriously about what initiatives can help to raise tourism in Italy promoting also, but not only, the small villages. We use all the resources at our disposal: I think, for example, of cinema and television programs, which make Italy's beauties known and often produce significant multiplier effects; I think of television series such as "Montalbano" or "Un passo dal cielo" and the various Italian film festivals that attract so much interest abroad. Too bad that in many parts of the world it is difficult to access RAI programs. Ecobonus: Minister Giorgetti, let's make sure that even Italians in the world can take advantage of the facilities for house renovations. It is a great opportunity in particular for the small centres of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Just simplify the procedures. Another topic is the representative bodies of Italians in the world, who need regulatory reform to adapt them to the needs of the future. Comites, CGIE, regional consultants must team up and, together with the bodies responsible for the internationalization and promotion of the Italy system, involve the great network of professionals and experts in the world who have an emotional connection with our beautiful country. I'm talking about our kids and our grandchildren. Through this network we can attract investments in Italy and, in addition to the export of goods services and large infrastructure projects, provide sustainable development models and production processes to promote new companies and activities that, using commercial relations and distribution systems of foreign countries, can access new markets. I am thinking of Australia, where I live, which could facilitate access to Italian companies in the large market of the Pacific Ocean and Indochina. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I invite you to ensure that the issues of Italians in the world become part of the policies of yours, of our Government at all levels. Let me conclude by noting that Italian exports are more significant in countries where people of Italian origin live and where Italian language is taught. I therefore also address the ministers Di Maio and Franceschini to say that we must start from teaching the Italian language abroad, from cultural initiatives that can produce an impact in local societies, from programmes of professional and social academic exchange. These initiatives help to make our country known, but also to bring people together and promote human relations that allow us to establish relationships of trust over time. Trust - as I have also shown in my doctoral thesis - is undoubtedly the most important ingredient in achieving positive results from international economic and financial interchanges. I hope that I will soon have the opportunity to discuss these issues with you and your ministers. I wish you and our Government good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u111	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u112	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before that someone remembered the opportunity for which we are here today, with the new governing body. Thanks have rightly been given to you, Mr Draghi, who accepted a difficult task, and to the Head of State, who had the strength to put together all the political forces available for this difficult moment. However, I believe that, as far as we are concerned, and not only that, we must thank President Berlusconi's far-sightedness, who for months has been demanding an additional effort from the country and all the responsible political forces in order to face such a complicated historical moment. Then, to resume his speech, which I appreciated and shared, we are truly experiencing a historic moment in which we are all called to give up something for the greatest interest of the community. If we are unable to give up, it will not be us alone, but it will be our families, businesses and the economic and social system of our country. Based on the experience I have gained for almost three terms as mayor of my city, I believe, Mr President, that I can afford to make a suggestion: to exploit the eyes, ears and experience of the local administrators to get to the bottom of the real problems of the country. The mayors, the municipal councils and, therefore, the juntas are essential and fundamental elements in order to be able to carry out at central level a government action. When I was a mayor, I said that it would take a rule that would require ministers and parliamentarians to spend at least six months every two and a half years in the city council. I stayed on that city council because proximity, experience and contact with people's problems every day are essential. I would like to draw attention to tourism, something you mentioned in your speech; 13.07 percent of GDP, about 14%, with 3.5 million people employed; huge problems and an input that would bring the sector almost to 25%, with 7 million people employed in it. I then took the trouble to dust up the numbers that are also part of my professional life and remind the government that we lost 53 billion turnover and, objectively, almost 400,000 jobs, probably no longer replaceable. Arrivals from abroad have dropped by about 70 percent; hotels have lost 55 percent of customers; cities of art have lost more than 70 percent of visitors. We are not talking about fairs and conferences, which have lost more than 80%. We have lost about 54 million tourists; local authorities have lost more than half a million residence taxes and tourist buses more than 90% of the work. We have the problem of the Bolkestein directive, Mr President, and at European level we must intervene in this area because we cannot abandon a million people, including the induced one, and we must be able to give hope to the bathing system. We have put forward proposals: introducing the dry coupon for rents; introducing flexibility into the world of work; thinking about vouchers; working in the interest of flexibility and trying to give a chance to companies that are the only real engine of recovery for the country. [[Applause.]] I wish you good work. I wish the government and all of us good work. It will be a difficult and complicated moment, but Forza Italia will be at your side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u113	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u114	Mr President, Ministers, colleagues, ecological transition is one of the central themes of the new Executive's programme, which aims to be environmentalist. The League wants to make its contribution to this challenge with the pragmatism that distinguishes it, leaving ineffective ideological drifts behind the objective, often anti-business. If Europe's mother objective is climate neutrality at 2050 with a 55% CO2 cut by 2030, Italy will have to run by removing obstacles and pursuing various objectives, first and foremost those challenging by the PNIEC, but today we are far from achieving: renewables, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, decarbonisation, which does not mean deoxidisation. For the League, however, there are other important key objectives: it is necessary to reduce foreign dependence on raw materials through the circular economy, the end of waste, CAMs, transforming waste into secondary raw materials. There is no doubt that plants are needed, including composting and heat-to-energy. We need to reduce the high energy dependence, which is 75%, 20 points above the European average; the percentage that rises to 93 for natural gas alone, which we will need in the long term, both because they will pass lustrous before the large-scale affirmation of hydrogen, and because all consumption cannot be electrified. We need to reduce the weight of the bills, burdened by too many system burdens: a burden which, for households and small and medium-sized enterprises, is greater than the rest of Europe. The competitiveness of our companies also passes from here, as energy is an important factor in production. These are strategic objectives to be pursued with key principles. Environmental sustainability must be combined with economic and social sustainability. The transition must not lead to job losses and increase social inequality: not everyone can buy a Tesla [[Applause]] and the State must assess well the provision of bonuses for the benefit of wealthy people. It is also necessary to ensure the principle of technological neutrality and to promote sustainable and certified processes that adopt the principles of life cycle assessment. Too convenient to measure exhaust emissions of the vehicle: instead it is necessary to certify the emissions generated by production, supply, maintenance and demolition of the vehicle and its battery, that is, throughout the life cycle. President Draghi, with these objectives and criteria we trust in a review of the recovery and resilience plan. There is not only a lack of governance and assessments of the impact on GDP and employment, but there is no coherence with the PNIEC. For this reason we consider it important to support all renewables - not only photovoltaic and wind - by definition not programmable, often blocked by supervisors, but also hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass and agroenergy. On hydrogen, pending the maturity of the technology for the extensive use of green under competitive conditions, it is also necessary in the short to medium period to support the development of blue hydrogen with CO2 capture and storage. To produce green hydrogen, in fact, we do not yet have renewable electricity. For decarbonised mobility, in addition to electricity and hydrogen, it is also necessary to support compressed and liquid natural gas, biofuels, synthetic fuels and, above all, biomethane. For energy efficiency, it is necessary to put hand to white certificates, whose prices are skyrocketing. For too many months at the Ministry of the Environment, a decree awaited by the operators is still in place. And then we have to assess what to do with the superbonus, with over 18 billion commitments, but that is disappointing expectations, given the complexity, criticality and risks highlighted by companies and technicians. [[Applause]] It is also necessary to invest in research and innovation; to use competition as a lever for energy efficiency and technological transformation. But above all, we must give a blow to bureaucracy, remove obstacles for those who do business and want to invest. It is necessary to simplify the authorisation procedures for new plants and for repowering. Otherwise, we will continue to record humiliating comparisons for our country as recent ones related to the auctions for RES incentives, which in Italy are a failure, while in Spain they are a success. I start with the conclusions to highlight one aspect: the ecological transition, especially if very much pushed towards electrification, will lead to the shift of the centre of gravity of world geopolitics towards China, and I think this is a significant thing to think about. I will conclude by wishing the entire government team a good job, which will be able to make transparency, efficiency... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u115	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u116	Mr President, today we are called to give confidence to a government that is born in an unprecedented, complex and complicated historical context. A government that is located within a framework of the emergency, in which the causal chain that linked political choices and actions, with ignorance and aggressive unconsciousness, has easily provoked the black swan, just like a child who plays in a chemistry laboratory. President Draghi, you have an arduous task, the management and direction of the recovery plan, with a budget of EUR 209 billion. As a woman, but also as a Sicilian, I feel the need to claim the role of the Mezzogiorno. In fact, with colleagues in the House, we have made an express request, regarding the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, stating that the clause of 34%, that is the distribution of regional funds to the resident population, does not appear sufficient to promote the reduction of territorial gaps still existing between the different areas of our country, in which a differentiation in relation to GDP per capita and the unemployment rate persists. You will intervene using your team, but we need to explain well to our citizens whether it will be a technical, political or transitional government. Our citizens, in fact, have not understood this well. In my opinion, the government is always political, because it is inseparable and indispensable from the parties and, therefore, from political orientations. Our citizens have not understood very well, because they feel excluded from counting something, they feel that they are living a suspended time, with trite logics and resentment from political clashes. Our country, President Draghi, is agonizing and needs concrete and immediate answers. We can no longer afford to remain just hopeful and attentive to the near future and how this will evolve. We had become accustomed to Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, who we saw coming out of the political scene with grace and lordship, among the deserved applause and so much emotion. President Draghi, you must, of necessity, give continuity to the experience of the previous Government, to that respectful style, but with the time decided, thanks to which we have regained esteem and consideration, not only in Europe but throughout the world. President Draghi, you certainly have all the cards in order to complete what you have undertaken, but what is needed at this moment (and I ask you first of all to myself) is patriotic love, an unselfish love for the nation that is realized in concrete acts. We of the Movimento 5 Stars have shown responsibility and consistency during these two previous experiences of Government. We had to do so, even though among so many negotiations with the other political forces, despite the emergency Covid-19 imposed feverish rhythms and despite betrayals to the electoral pacts and calculations. We have pursued, with a high head and with dignity, our issues, related to social inclusion (think of the income of citizenship), important issues related to justice, the environment and above all, not least in importance, the protection of the issue of women, for all those women victims of violence and for all those feminicides that continue to perpetuate themselves. To date, February 16, 2021, we are seven feminicides. President Draghi, your standing and economic and financial competence are undeniable, but I repeat that it is not enough. It takes so much humanity that it can act on the furrow of its predecessor Giuseppe Conte. Its approach must be precisely that of the diligence of the good father of the family towards our citizens who are in distress. You, Mr Draghi, must acknowledge the great merit of saving the euro in your most critical period. To her, for our part, goes the same esteem and affection that Federico Caffè had. We need Keynesian economic models that revitalize our economic fabric, and you, with your training and history, let us hope. The confidence we give you today, President Draghi, is not a blank trust. It is a sensitive and at the same time fierce trust. We will monitor, thanks to our watchmen within its Executive (first of all, my great esteem goes to Minister Di Maio, Minister Patuanelli, Minister Dadone, Minister D'Incà and all his Executive), the management and direction of the work on our issues. In particular, I repeat my attention to the Mezzogiorno and to the protection of women. We have to go again. Therefore, my vote will be a yes to this Commission, albeit fought; a tearing yes to certain aspects, but, moreover, I am the spokesman for the Senate. A yes that is the sum of the assumption of responsibility indicated by the President of the Republic Mattarella, by the previous President of the Council Giuseppe Conte and, last but not least, by our base, involved because we do not give orders of stables. The basis was expressed with 60 percent yes showing itself in favor of the circumstance that the Movimento supports a technical-political government that provides for a Ministry of the ecological transition and that defends the main results achieved by the Movimento 5 Stars with the other political forces indicated by President Draghi. That same mode and platform allowed me to be here today as a senator of the Republic. [[Applause]] Good work, everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u117	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on the political crisis, the contours of which are still very blurred, which has led to this new government, which we are about to give its trust today. During the consultations, we have already had the opportunity to appreciate the broad lines of your political proposal, which has now deepened: Europeanism, Atlanticism, environmentalism and the need for structural reforms. On that occasion, we had the opportunity to submit to you the importance of our support for mountain policies, the protection of the special Alpine autonomy in their cultural, linguistic, geographical and economic specificities. All this is in full harmony with the Europeanist and federalist spirit dear to Altiero Spinelli and Emilio Chanoux. We have also stressed the need for the recovery plan to be the resource to support the projects proposed by the Alpine regions with a view to relaunching the mountain in the name of technological innovation and the best actions to combat the effects of climate change. It is clear that the contingent issue of restors to support all sectors of the economy and, in particular, those of my mountainous territories as compensation for pandemic damage is the most felt by my fellow citizens. There is no doubt - I am not the first to stress this - that the Government's decision to reconfirm the closure of cableway systems for amateur sport, which for us is not only fun, but above all work, has created in the territories great anger and perplexity. The method seemed profoundly unfair. I understand health concerns, but it is not justifiable to communicate at 7 p.m. on the day before the opening of installations that everything will remain closed. All this has led to incredulity, loss of credibility of the institutions and the feeling of being poorly respected. The president of the cableway facilities of the Valle d'Aosta says that they had spent a lot, had arranged the hiring of almost all the employees, making them rotate at reduced times and that they had been charged both to secure the facilities, both for the access part, for the distancement, the equipment and the training of the staff, for the purchase of materials, as well as for the signposting on the ski slopes. The same could be done for restaurants, hotels, bars and all related activities. What we are asking for is a real change of pace towards the mountain. I would not like to see our efforts, dealing with the great issues you have raised in your speech and also in order to amalgamate this vast and heterogeneous majority, putting our needs for small alpine realities in the background or forgot. They are necessary for everyone if I speak of hydropower and of contrast to hydrogeological failure. So, Mr President, my thoughts towards you are very high, given your great international authority. I also respect the choice made by the President of the Republic of Mattarella to overcome this difficult moment, but I am obliged to bring to this House the anger and disappointment that exists in my territory, Valle d'Aosta, at this moment. I believe that in parallel with the efforts being made from a health point of view, first and foremost with regard to the vaccination plan, it is at least necessary, as soon as possible, to give concrete answers and feedback to the territories and economic aid to the many, too many families in difficulty. So, at this moment, although there would be a lot of ideas to comment on his very high intervention, just the theme of the refreshments, together with the health one, will be for this Government the opportunity, and for us the reason, to give or not trust in his activity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u119	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the European People's Party supports the vote of confidence in the Commission which you direct, in full coherence with the approach that characterised our positions in support of the Count's Government. With your programme anchored to the values of European tradition, you have already achieved a result that seemed impossible: that of bringing Eurosceptics back into play from a European perspective. I believe that this clarification is good for Italy, especially if we all convince ourselves that the defence of national interests passes through the strengthening of the European institution, without which the future of our country will be more uncertain. We are for dynamic Europeanism. If we look at the long way ahead, albeit between ups and downs, we realize that a European public space has also grown with the single market. The Europe of rights has grown, the trust especially from young people who feel today, thanks to the years of school education, European citizens, as well as from their own country. However, we must recognise that, alongside the important achievements, there are many unfinished ones that still prevent the European Union from playing a leading role in the global scenario. We need a federal Europe, not a federal Europe; the right of veto must be surpassed as soon as possible in favour of a European government that governs with guarantees for all, starting with the countries of the Eurozone. Having a currency without a real European government is no longer possible; too many of the problems that have arisen in these two decades, starting with uneven fiscal policies and a public debt that travels at varying speeds. To arrive at a European tax and a European debt is no longer a taboo, but a concrete necessity; it is a question of internal cohesion, of solidarity and therefore of Europe's competitiveness. Just as thinking about a significant increase in the Union's budget means thinking about a common foreign and defence policy. What it costs us in terms of the credibility and competitiveness of contradictory foreign policies. The Next generation EU is an important achievement; we must make this approach stable, transforming the measure from extraordinary into ordinary practice. We have an important opportunity to address these issues and, on our own initiative, to impose them on the European agenda: I am referring to the Conference on the future of Europe strongly desired by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who should have started work last year, but which was postponed due to the pandemic until 9 May 2021. The objectives of the Conference are extraordinarily in line with those of its Government: sustainability, ecological transition, social challenges, innovation, competitiveness and digital transformation; fundamental values, rights and freedoms; the international role of the European Union. I believe that this Conference aims to revitalise the European process, strengthen the democratic area and promote the better functioning of the European Union, through the direct involvement of citizens at all levels, European and national institutions and local authorities. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the hope that, when defining the recovery plan measures, account will be taken of the needs of the Mezzogiorno of Europe and of island realities, such as Sardinia. The Sardinian problems are not comparable to those of the Mezzogiorno, but are linked to insularity, with higher energy costs and higher transport costs (and transport infrastructure). I believe that we should take advantage of this conference to relaunch Euro-Mediterranean policies, which are capable of setting out a new path to development in this fundamental area of the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u120	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the nascent government and Parliament have an arduous but at the same time fascinating task: to lay the foundations for a better world. This is the true meaning of the resources of Next generation EU, decided by Europe as a result of the terrible epidemic by Covid-19. Well: health first! As President of the Health and Hygiene Commission, I am already committed, with my colleagues and colleagues, to the issues of territorial medicine - mentioned by President Draghi - and home care. The Commission can also offer the Government ideas and proposals on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, resulting from listening to the citizenship and representation of the professional world, in a renewed relationship between the Government and Parliament. Mr President, at the same time we must be pragmatic and forward-looking, an example for all of us. While we must quickly implement an efficient national vaccination plan, as you have indicated, starting from the weakest and - I add - without distinction between territories, we have the duty, together with Europe - closely with Europe - to invest in research and industrial policies, which can increase the immediate production capacity of vaccines and treatments, but which are also able to help the dream and commitments of the scientists of the world, who have done so much in recent months, in order to arrive at a single type of vaccine, to counter any type of coronary virus, always updated with regard to variants, pooling scientific results. Mr President, I share your view of the call to arms on the new vaccination plan, from civil protection, to volunteers, to the armed forces. We need coordination between ministries, clear management in the relationship between the state and the regions and the contribution of working groups, with diversified skills: I am thinking of physicists, microbiologists, experts in industry and organisation. We must also make choices with Parliament, because some of them have been very ethical. An active national surveillance plan, including school swabs, is needed and has not been sufficiently done. Even in the presence of variants it is essential to anticipate the virus, without always chasing it, and we now have enough experience to do so. We must build the hope of a return to normal life, gradually, keeping the spread of the virus under control, because it will not disappear altogether in a short time. Meanwhile, the new government's task is to reconstruct an institutional communicative space, characterized by transparency and truth, also in giving serious information and at the right time, with the aim of close collaboration with the citizen, in order to respect the rules of contrast to the epidemic, without panicing economic operators, workers and workers. We must have the courage to make strong and innovative choices, such as the establishment of the national health guard and a major university and postgraduate training project on the social determinants of health and the fight against inequalities. Active labour policies and a single social shock absorber, incentives for the economy and employment are needed. It is essential to redesign the health system, learning from the lesson of the pandemic: a health care for all, but for all. It is necessary to design a widespread, personalized health care, put at the center psychophysical well-being and primary and secondary prevention, promote correct lifestyles, imagine future professions, encourage artificial intelligence, telemedicine, integrate the human with big data. Mr President, we must avoid the data that you have brought us and which we find: those of neglecting non-Covid patients. In a passage from Mark's Gospel it is told of the parable of the new fabric: no one sews a new piece of cloth over an old dress, otherwise the new patch takes away the old and the tear gets worse. Along with the young people, whom you quoted with founding words, we have to sew a new dress and above all not put more patches, to prevent a small virus from kneeling the world. We need to take care of the intelligence of girls and boys, invest in education, human capital, training and work to leave better children for the planet. Good work to you and to all of us, with the common will - certainly that of Italy Viva - to make the maximum contribution, with courage and determination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u122	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u123	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have respect for you, for what you have done in other contexts, also for the protection of Italy; for the spirit of service with which you are engaged in this adventure, for your intellectual honesty. However, with the same intellectual honesty we must tell you that this is not at all the Government of the country: this, if anything, is the Government of the parties or, if you prefer, the Government of the two Presidents. The Church has two Popes, we have two Presidents. It is not the government of the country because none of those who will give you the confidence today came to your voters saying that they would vote for a government of broad understanding or even a government led by you. In fact, many of those who will vote for you today had evoked it to their voters as a danger to the country. This is a Government of the parties, and we will carry out with great responsibility the role of sentinels of Italy. In this regard, we would like to tell you that the first acts of your Government, unfortunately, do not go in the desired direction. I am referring, of course, to the decree issued a few hours ago on winter tourism. I am referring above all to another dossier, on which we have asked a parliamentary question which will be published on the proceedings of tomorrow, i.e. because it did not place the golden power on the operation that the French bank Crédit Agricole has launched against the Italian bank Credito Valtellinese. You are well aware, Mr President, that Parliament had already expressed itself in a report unanimously adopted by the Copasir in which it raised the alarm about the excessive presence of French finance in Italy. He had given a mandate to the Government to extend the golden power in the banking, insurance and financial sectors and to the players of the European Union, extended until 30 June this year. Well, despite this, you received a dossier, a poisoned meatball that the former Minister of Economy gave you at the last useful hour, and you said it did not put the golden power. In this way a French bank will acquire at zero cost one of the best Italian banks; at zero cost, for the combined arrangement between the DTAs, according to a rule inserted in the budget law that should have allowed a great dowry for Monte dei Paschi di Siena, and the so-called free capital that Credito Valtellinese grants in fact to anyone the purchase: 350 million euros of DTA, added to 400 million free capital euros mean 750 million euros, exactly the amount that Crédit Agricole will spend - or rather will not spend - for the acquisition of Credito Valtellinese: zero cost, all to be borne by Italian taxpayers. That is why we do not agree with these first steps and our task will be to nuclearize the poisoned meatballs that the past is giving them and on which we will be very vigilant, as is apparent from the questions and motions tabled at this time. The privatization of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, according to what appears, should confer a dowry that can in various respects reach almost 10 billion euros, an unsustainable figure for the public funds and for the Italian taxpayers. We have submitted a proposal to you. I hope you read it. Then there is the mountain of deteriorated credits: 1,400 billion euros in Europe, almost 400 billion euros in Italy. We need specific interventions in Italy - we have proposed a sanatoria - and specific interventions in Europe to loosen the grip. The sale of the Italian Stock Exchange to the French is against any logic. There's a document from Copasir accusing Minister Gualtieri of the information he didn't give. It emerges from one of our questions that the French have already expressed a clear desire for hegemony and you know very well what this means with regard to government bonds and control over Italian companies: we advise you to read the question. As far as the sale of FIAT's establishments is concerned, it is not a joint merger, as was also said to the Council of Ministers: it is a sale, a sale, with a dominant governance of the French, which recently also bought shares that place them in a majority situation. We ask you what has been notified to the Council of Ministers. I advise you to read those acts, because it might happen that what has been notified is not what has happened, both with regard to governance and equity capital. I also advise you to look at the file on Iveco, because you want to sell it to the Chinese. We asked to put on this the golden power. We are not protectionists: France applies golden power to 69 percent of French companies and has recently even put golden power not on a bank, not on a strategic framework, but on a food chain like Carrefour, preventing a Canadian company from buying this large distribution group. As for the Italian steel industry, in two years' time there will be no Ilva, there will be no Piombino and there will be no Terni. We ask you for a national steel plan that will allow us to get out of the grip, from the corner where foreign investors have put Italy. Above all, in positive - and I conclude - we ask for the digitalization of the country. The fiber optic cables, the submarine cables, the unique network with public control to be taken back into our hands. Spark, a company that was a jewel, is now in disarray. We ask you for green energy, making Italy the green lung of the Mediterranean, the platform of digitalization... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u124	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u125	Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the catastrophe that has turned our lives upside down, we find ourselves in this House to express our trust in a government that has placed before the whole future of our country, which must surely be rethought. Hungerman, Buckles and Lugauer, from 1990 to 2007, identified the decline of births as a premonitory parameter of a country's recession. Fertility, therefore, can be characterized as a fundamental economic indicator. Moreover, you too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in 2016, at the annual meeting of central bankers, had to say that the collapse of births and the ageing of public debt create an evil chain effect. If, as you have pointed out several times, it is urgent to focus on the new generations considering it essential to invest through the use of the so-called good debt, I wonder whether the urgency of designing decisive proposals has been taken into consideration to determine an increase in the birth rate which cannot be separated from the protection of the core generation of age between the nineteen and the thirty-nine years, which emigrates punctually. Demographers, economists and sociologists talk about it. We are witnessing increasingly downward annual reports and we are seeing a constant process of urban and extra-urban depopulation. The International Monetary Fund states that the impact of ageing can reduce national GDP by almost one percentage point per annum. In the nascent government's programme there are voices referring to various areas of intervention, but perhaps we have forgotten something? Andrew Milligan of the Edinburgh Standard Life Investments identifies eight characteristics that have contributed to Japan's inexorable decline: zero interest rates, political stalemate and denatality, just like in Italy. Between primrose and demographic winter, do we want to assume a good debt by investing in demographic spring? The time is... spring is only a month away! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u126	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you, Mr Draghi, for wanting to put your competence, your authority and your political quality at the service of the country and for the health, social and growth needs that affect our present and our possibilities for the future. The urgency that President Mattarella highlighted in the most difficult moment of the crisis is all before us and I believe it is a precious asset for the country not to disperse the fact that almost all political forces have wanted and able to accept the appeal of the President, finding that unity that all the political history of our Republic teaches us to be decisive in times of particular difficulty. Unity, respect for others in mutual differences that do not disappear, the search for points of contact and sharing: these are values that are increasingly diminished and less and less practiced and that instead I consider fundamental, the heart of every political reformism and soul of every civil community, cohesive and supportive, capable of looking to the future with the prospect of a widespread well-being accessible to all and to all. This is the challenge and responsibility of all political forces, after trusting the Government, to renew the effort of unity every day to change tones, ways of relating to opponents and languages and finally to return to give a good example of a constructive and positive dialogue that overcomes extremism, aggression and personalism. Despite the difference in values and programmes which we certainly cannot forget, but which must never become barriers or vetoes, what matters is the general interest, the good of Italy, the life of women, young people, families, workers and workers, businesses and the third sector. Urgentness is a political condition and unity is the reformist and innovative response that served after the crisis of the previous majority. Now unity must also live through mediation, but understood in a noble political sense, without ever losing the necessary ambition, first of all in contrast to the pandemic that has upset the same concept of urgency - ours, as the whole world - and then knowing how to look at the Next generation EU for what it is, that is, a unique and historical opportunity in which we absolutely cannot fail. In order not to fail, we must share and make some strategic investments, as you have outlined and said in your speech. I see three of them consistent with the same objectives as the European programme. The first concerns what I call the knowledge chain: investments in school and the whole education system, starting from kindergartens everywhere for all girls and children; training and research to focus on knowledge both as a factor of sustainable collective growth, and as a tool for individual paths to find quality work, to realize their projects and dreams and to be satisfied, aware and involved citizens of their community (in a word, active citizens). The second strategic investment is on the modernization of the country, on those challenges of ecological and digital transition that are the pillars of the Next generation EU and that are now so of the Italian Government, as well represented symbolically and concretely by the new Ministries. Sustainability and digital have already transformed the world, it is time to catch up and put us in a position to govern the changes. The third strategic investment is cross-cutting, economic, social and cultural, an essential prerequisite for any change that we really want to achieve; gender equality, starting with the increase in female employment. Without an extraordinary plan on this of the whole country system it cannot be realized, so we really need transversal and far-sighted policies, capable of changing everything, even the stereotypes, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which, in part, in my opinion, do not fit Europe, the whole government has given, unfortunately, starting from my party. While recognizing the very high quality of the individual competences selected, we should, however, also think more about this, because it concerns us all, in order to join together in a more advanced and progressive Europe also from this point of view. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, I am confident but combative. From his speech I have grasped the full meaning of innovation and change. To be confident and combative is also the sense that we should give to our participation in order to really build that Europe that you have outlined and of which we are particularly convinced, where we overcome every gender gap, thanks to which we will stop in Italy to waste talents and skills, energies, political capacities of women, especially of the younger generations. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this really is the time to hope and build together: we are builders and builders, because we want to share what you have proposed to us. Finally, there is one thing I would like to say to you, because the future - yes - is only one for everyone and we will have to share it together, but we are doing it with a great President, with a government that is up to date, with this Parliament and with this Democratic Party, with its women and its men absolutely within a perspective of change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u127	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u128	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I can quickly send you five telegrams in three minutes. The first is: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, drag out the virology. Less TV, less confusion, more certainty, maybe a unique voice, but I say enough to the virologo-show. [[Applause]] In the area of health, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, all vaccines. Accept the proposals of Forza Italia, the project of Confindustria; it is necessary to vaccinate everyone everywhere, less Ricciardi and more vaccines, zero primrose, 10, 100, 1,000 syringes [[Applause]] On justice - I welcome Minister Cartabia - activate disciplinary procedures for the wrong magistrates. Let me give you a recent example: Sarpietro da Catania first praises Conte in a press conference while investigating Salvini, then violates the rules and opens a restaurant saying he was in need. Less Sarpietro, more justice. Less politics, less palamarism, more justice. [[Applause]] I turn to the third telegram: you are European but Roman, as we know. He said that without Italy there is no Europe, but without Rome there is no Italy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, remember the funds and powers for Rome, which has been the capital of Italy for 150 years and fourteen days. [[Applause]] As for relations between Europe and China, you told us: Italy, Europe and the West. For Forza Italia it is right, but let's say even less China, less unfair competition, enough destructive dumping; more the way of the West and less the way of silk. We do not give our land to the new masters of Beijing [[Applause]] You spoke of competition; then tell Antitrust that China is dumping, while in Europe it punishes those receiving state aid. That's fine, but then there's a stop to unfair competition. I come to the last telegram: you spoke of tax reform. It's a vast program, De Gaulle said. I wish you good work. You could do it. Tomorrow, February 18, however, charge the web tax to the giants of the Network: Amazon, Google, Facebook. I'll give you a book that explains everything. This tax evasion of the giants of the Net must end, while a lifeguard, a lawyer, a soldier, a professional pay for everything. Let dragon be with the mighty and generous with the weak. Good work, Mr President-in-Office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u129	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u130	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I address you on behalf of a political force that has decided with conviction to give you loyal support in your commitment to the reconstruction of the country. I would like to begin by expressing my support for your interpretation of this stage, in which we too do not see a failure of politics, but rather of anti-politics. We are particularly grateful to you for pointing out that in the majority that supports it - I quote - no one takes a step back from his own identity. Doing so, moreover, would be anti-European. The Union's motto is: "United in diversity" and in this spirit his speech explicitly recognised the value of diversity expressed by his majority. It is a matter of pure common sense: in dealing with such an ambitious task, it is important to be able to observe it from different angles before making a summary (its task). Allow me, then, to avoid misunderstandings and in support of what I shall offer to the debate in this House, to clarify what is our angle of view. It is that of a political force that immediately, convincedly and motivatedly, has taken sides against those policies that everyone today condemns: austerity policies. It reassures us, in this sense, to know on your team who said: Without economic growth a public debt like the Italian one is not sustainable (...) not growing and not producing wealth, no debt can be repaid (Giancarlo Giorgetti in 2012). Allow me also to express relief for having found in your words confirmation of what everyone here expected from you: a full awareness of the situation of the country. I would like to add a few figures, for the benefit of the minutes, taking advantage of the new climate of active cooperation which animates this Parliament. The fall in 2020, which was 8.9%, brought Italian GDP back to the 1998 values; a leap backwards of 22 years, to which the Covid-19 made a decisive but not exclusive contribution. As you mentioned, in 2019 we had not recovered from the financial crisis that started in 2008; Italian GDP was 3,8 percent lower than the maximum pre-crisis, at the level of 2004, with a 15-year delay. The natural rebound that had followed the recession of 2009 had in fact been cut off, starting from 2012, by policies of which at the time we denounced the inopportunity, in particular from a structural cut of about twenty billion of the gross fixed investments of the public administration, that - as the Ameco database tells us - has brought the net fixed investments in negative territory since 2012. An unprecedented destruction of public fixed capital due to intensity and duration in the history of our country. Here we come to the first point where I am pleased to have your attention. On 18 August last, you stated, in a well-known public intervention: It is likely that our European rules will not be reactivated for a long time and certainly not in their present form. This passage needs attention. You mentioned the different speed of recovery of the European countries; we fear - and we rely on you to prevent this possibility - that the reactivation of the rules may take place before the country has recovered and without amending the main vulnus of the rules themselves, widely recognized by all (the reference to potential GDP). As you well know, the identification of structural components by means of filtering techniques subjugated to the well-known end point bias, which translated means that the productive potential of a country is identified with the rubble left by the last recession and that therefore any policy that wants to push to bring GDP back to its historical trend is excluded because it is considered a priori inflationary. We can't do that after Covid-19. Let's have it. We need you as an authoritative and competent interlocutor at the rewriting table of the rules, a table that, with some dismay, we do not see at work. We need you to remove from these rules a distortion that you have played for long years against the country; if this distortion is not removed, the divergence between Member States will increase and the European project will be at risk. But it will not have been put to us by those who freely exercise their right of criticism here or elsewhere, but by those who have obtusely refused to obey macroeconomic rationality, whose political consequences have been so often exposed by you with exemplary clarity. I would also like to share a comment with you, as a person who has been practicing the European debate for a long time, what is happening in Europe. We must start from the serene awareness that if Europe does not exist - I quote his words - a common public budget, capable of supporting the countries in the periods of recession, that is, endowed in technical terms of macroeconomic stabilisation capacity, this has not depended either on Italy, nor on the Italians (including those who speak to it), nor specifically on Governments expressing a political thought antagonistic to Europeanism. On the contrary, as you are well aware, the resistance to this project comes unfortunately from governments expressing parties that fall under the EPP and PSE beehives. This observation, which I imagine may seem provocative and senseless to some of my colleagues, is actually made here in a completely constructive spirit and is well factual, as I am going to demonstrate. The report by the five Presidents - you were one of the five Presidents and, without complaint, I can say by far the most incisive and authoritative, which makes us proud as Italians - devoted an entire paragraph (the 4.2) to the issue of the stabilisation function that the European budget should have carried out. That of making available to the Member States a mass of common resources to respond more vigorously to the hardships of the cycle, moreover, is a topic dear to you and which has also recently, on 1 October 2019, addressed in a well-known extension held in Athens. However, without any malice, sine ira et studio, let me point out that it was not we who supported it here that deleted the word stability from the European discourse. The Eurogroup's communications to the leaders of 4 December 2018 make it clear that France and Germany were - and I still believe it is - insisting on convergence and competitiveness, at the expense of stabilisation. So if we had to chase the pandemic crisis by transforming the embryo of the Budget instrument for convergence and competitiveness (BICC) into the next generation of the EU, it is not the fault of those who are painted by the media as anti-European, but of those who are said to be European without being European, and you know it well as we do. The challenge presented to you is formidable, but opportunities are also formidable. You can count, in addition to the natural rebound of an economic system after such a shock, on the desire to return to the living and working of one of the most industrialist peoples on the planet; on the generalized rejection of policies of which everyone today recognizes, with the League, failure (we are sure that this recognition will be sincere and industrious); finally, on a configuration of macroeconomic fundamentals, first of all the current account balance, which is exceptionally favourable and will thus relieve it from the painful task of managing external imbalances by destroying internal demand. The circumstances and time therefore play in his favor. If, with its authority, with its credibility and with our loyal support, it succeeds in promoting the competitiveness of the country with the reforms for which all international bodies, starting from the World Bank, recognize the necessity (the reform of public administration and that of justice), the country will have to acknowledge them. In this regard, I was relieved to hear in your speech a critical reference to the limits of the reforms - I quote your words - dictated by the urgency of the moment. We absolutely agree with you: the rhetoric of the early fairy and the burning house has made its time and its victims. Let us take an example from other European countries: I am thinking of Holland, where, while waiting for an important election, it was decided to postpone the presentation of the PNRR with respect to the deadline, authorising and not peremptory, of 30 April. The real discontinuity and the viatic for the success of his government action that here, as sincere patriots, we all hope, will be the sharing with Parliament, starting from a full implementation of the so-called Moavero law. Good work, Mr President, the facts will speak for you. Long live Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u131	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, those who speak are members of that 41% of the members of the Movimento 5 Stars who voted against our support for your Government. A vote in which yes has been won and, as spokesperson, I will honour that vote, even if I think otherwise. Let it be clear, however, that our confidence will not be unconditional, but a thoughtful confidence in the actions that this Government will already take in the coming days. President, you have certainly had an important and prestigious career. Among its recurring interlocutors there have been men among the richest and most powerful on earth, a very small percentage of people who have always counted and influenced a great deal, especially in politics. It is precisely the influence of these few that has often led to parliaments representing more than the interests of some than of the vast majority of citizens, of ordinary people. It is on these rubble that the Movimento 5 Stars was born, precisely to give representativeness to those millions of Italians who in these classrooms did not make their voice heard. So was born the income of citizenship, which you said you wanted to defend, even if you did not specify it in your speech today. So the superbonus 110% was born, to make the economy start again in a sustainable way, even if in his speech today he did not remember it. [[Applause]] We expect you, Mr President, to continue this work in order to give concrete answers to all the Italian people, not only to the elite. There are no longer only bankers and large financial investors with whom you have dealt in the past and who, when you were in the Bank of Italy, could certainly and should have controlled better and more. President, who created the most insane and unmotivated crisis of government in history, when he sat in his place, issued measures that saved bankers and put small investors in the middle of a street. [[Applause.]] When we came to the government, we paid back the scams from the banks. He certainly knows that in these two years we have passed an important anti-corruption law, we have cut off parliamentarians and gold pensions, we have blocked cuts in health care and invested again in school; in doing all these actions we had good in mind on which side. Now, President, we expect you too to choose to be on the side of the Italian people, not as when, as Director-General of the Treasury, you completed the anti-Italian political choice of indiscriminate privatisations. It was then a technician, we know, Mr President, who implemented the political direction indicated by the governments of that time. Now, however, the political direction will have to be different and you will have to give it. I therefore ask you which side you want to be on: on the side of those who make laws save banks or on the side of those who, like us, save the scams and want a public investment bank for small and medium-sized enterprises? [[Applause]] What do you want to do, President, to continue to proliferate the relationship capitalism of the worst or to focus on the sustainable economy of the best? And again, on which side will stand in the next Benetton Atlantia dossier: on the side of the very powerful dealers or on the side of road users [[Applause]] , that due to lack of maintenance you saw a bridge collapse under your feet? President, not far from where you are now sitting, the undersigned, as Minister of Transport, rejoiced for having approved the so-called Genoa decree, giving a shoulder to the almighty [[Applause]] Until then, the system of motorway dealers. This unforgivable guilt allowed the new bridge to be built in record times, making it pay to those who for carelessness and craving for money had caused it to collapse. A decree that allowed hundreds of families to be helped by giving them a new home. Do you know how we did it? Simple, we decided to stand up for who was right, the normal people who suffered and struggled to get back up after the tragedy. We did not allow ourselves to be guided or conditioned by the money and the power of the giants of the toll booth; that money which instead too often legitimately, but for this reason no less shamefully, entered the coffers of all parties. President, I imagine you have also noticed that there is a piece of politics that is struggling in every way today to get your hands on the recovery plan's funds. Do not allow them to throw to the wind the extraordinary work done by his predecessor Giuseppe Conte [[Applause]] , that those funds in Europe have obtained them. These resources are the key to the restart of our country, they are the key to the ecological transition that you promised us and that you must not remain alone on paper. You see, President, we will not accept that we turn back on what we have done. In front of us there are important commitments to be pursued, the most urgent of course is the fight against the pandemic, but soon after there are the refreshments to the enterprises, which must be immediate and full-bodied. However, other reforms are also needed, from RAI to publishing, a conflict of interest law is needed and inequalities need to be reduced by introducing the minimum wage. We want to try and ask her to work to build a majority on these topics as well, but aware that to support it there are subjects that see these reforms as smoke in the eyes; there are people - the experience speaks for me - able to lie and betray as nothing were and a moment later, with the candour of a child, go ahead of the objective of a camera to declare its innocence and good faith. Be careful with these people. Mr President, in my speech I spoke only of facts, because it is on these that we will consider whether to continue to support your Government, day by day, amendment by amendment, measure by measure, and waiting to be able to discuss these measures, I hope and wish you good luck, will certainly need it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u133	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u134	Mr President, President Draghi, SVP welcomes President Mattarella's appeal: we will support his Government with responsibility and loyalty to help Italy get out of the emergency. For us every euro of the recovery plan must be spent on the modernisation of the system and to free Italy from the too many burdens and structural problems that have prevented its growth. It is therefore necessary to intervene immediately on the rules: suspension of the code of the contracts, model Genoa for the yards, targeted interventions in order to increase the ability to expense of the public administration and to do so, as it has begun to do with the so-called decree simplifications, that an executive is punished not when he puts a signature, not when it takes the responsibility to unlock a work, but when it remains with the pen in the pocket. The work track, as you said, must be that of the ecological conversion of the productive system, provided that it is not transformed into an ideological environmentalism, but a lever for the competitiveness and innovation of our system, because the real point, President, is that Italy in the coming years must have a higher growth than the European average in order to avoid that the public debt, which grew out of proportion during the pandemic, does not become unsustainable. It is a moral debt that we have with future generations, a debt that we will fully honour, with a profound reform of the training system. All the data tell us that there is no real link between training and work and that compared to other OECD countries we have serious limitations on the continuity of training. It is then necessary to age the teaching staff, to rethink the school calendar, to focus with greater determination also on that dual system of school-work alternation that gives excellent results in other European countries and also in South Tyrol and to aim for technical institutes and professional schools. Above all, however, we must commit ourselves to defeating the pandemic. To the many questions of these weeks, from those of companies and workers to the concerns related to the variants of the virus, there is only one effective response and it is called a vaccination plan. The supply match gives positive signals and then today we have to deal mainly with the logistic organization with an impeccable machine, in order to get to immunity of flock as soon as possible. Mr President, if the crisis of these weeks has had merit, it is the burial - I hope forever - of the feelings of Euroscepticism and anti-Europeanism. For this reason, if there is a political mandate of its Executive, it is for us the following: not just to take note of the European position of Italy, but to make Italy the main protagonist of a new phase of the integration process, that for the common budget and for an increasingly political Europe inspired by the principle of subsidiarity. It is in this framework that a strategic perspective is offered for emergency management, including, not least, an economic crisis that risks becoming a social crisis. The political crisis has slowed down the machinery of refreshment, accentuating hardships and difficulties. This is particularly true in the territories we represent, which are the hardest hit by the restrictions linked to the second wave. We need to indemnify immediately the categories that were affected by last Sunday's decisions: tourism companies, ski lifts, ski instructors and schools, retail, services, gastronomy, all the people and activities that spent money on reopenings and, of course, the workers to whom the possibility of returning to work has been again precluded. We must do this by applying the criterion of loss of turnover and with an appropriate time base, because only in this way we do not cut off seasonals. It must be done by putting hand to the relationship with the IRS, with a package of measures for the installment of payments, the bonary closure of small disputes with the Revenue Agency, until the real white year of the IRS for those activities that, since the outbreak of the pandemic, have been unable to work. This must be done by relaunching the strategic centrality of tourism. This is why the decision to set up an autonomous Ministry is positive, because, once the pandemic is over, tourism will be the sector that will grow the most. The artistic, historical, natural and landscape heritage, the food and wine richness, the provincial and regional peculiarities: Italy has a potential that should make it the world's main tourist superpower. The other European countries are already preparing themselves to make tourism the strategic element around which to organize economic recovery, but we must be the first to do so, to show the world how to start again from tourism, now guaranteeing its survival and projecting it into the challenges that will soon await it. President Draghi, if this is the approach, your Government will be able to count on the full support and cooperation of the SVP. The special autonomy in the past has had difficult relations with governments of broad understanding, so much so as to touch the maximum of disputes between the central state and autonomous provinces. Today we are sure that things will be different and we wish Mr Gelmini a good job, to whom we share the same European political family, that of the PPE. We are ready to confront ourselves, in the idea that the protection of the autonomy and linguistic minorities is not only a constitutional bond, but that our autonomy represents a small virtuous example from which all Italy can draw inspiration and benefit. We are also ready to make our contribution to the development of a structural policy for the mountains. As we reiterated in the consultations, the mountain needs interventions for the development of material and digital infrastructures, a simplification of legislation and bureaucracy for companies that play a valuable social role as a garrison of the territory and as a counter to depopulation. The new recovery plan also takes charge of this essential aspect. Good work, President Draghi. Good work to all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u135	Colleagues, I would like to express my personal congratulations and also of all the senators, to Senator Carbone, who became the father of little Benjamin, among other things augurante. [[Applause]] Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for your timely and high programme speech, which I broadly support. I would also like to thank you for recalling the sentiments of intense emotion and broad responsibility that should accompany all the Members of this House, in which - I quote - everything speaks to us of greatness, but at the same time everything reminds us of our duties. The duty to which you have referred is precisely the unity that the country deserves. In wishing this Commission and you, in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to complete your desire to overcome the serious health, economic and social crisis, I would like to reiterate the importance of sharing decisive choices with other countries of the great European reality in this context. Following the strong Europeanist line proposed by the Government, let me appeal to a fundamental right that defines the identity of more than 50 million people in Europe who belong to linguistic or national minorities. Italy today recognizes 12 of them throughout the territory. It would therefore be appropriate to finally ratify the European Charter of Minority and Regional Languages, which has been expected since 1992, important for many Italian regions, including Friuli-Venezia Giulia, where, in addition to the Italian one, the Friulian, German and Slovenian-speaking communities also live together. The latter is specifically protected by Law No 38 of 2001, which precisely in these days turns twenty years, but is not yet fully implemented. The subject is the subject of all bilateral summits between Italy and the Republic of Slovenia and followed, in particular, by the two Presidents of the Republic and, last, a few months ago, by the Foreign Ministers. In relation to the legal framework of the differentiated regime in favour of the Slovenian minority in Italy, the emphasis must be placed in particular on a question aimed at safeguarding particular values of constitutional rank. I am referring to the request that participation in public life be allowed, democratically competing and therefore by election to national politics. In accordance with Parliament's prerogatives, I would also like to draw the attention of the Government to the need for institutional reforms to be considered as an instrument for implementing the principle of substantive equality recognised and protected by the Constitution in Articles 3 and 6, also taking into account the drastic reduction of parliamentarians provided for by the recent constitutional reform. I refer specifically to Article 26 of Law No 38 of 2001 in which there is the commitment of the State to facilitate the election of a representative in the two chambers. To ensure that Slovenians in Italy are guaranteed the right of representation in at least one branch of Parliament means to respect the constitutional dictation, but it is also a solemn declaration on the quality of our democracy. It is with this hope, addressed to all the forces that support your Government, that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will have my vote and our vote of confidence. Hvala lepa, gospod predsednik! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u137	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u138	Mr President, Mr Draghi, even more so today, after your speech, who asked if it was worth giving birth to this government, we say yes. Your government is a clear demonstration of where the responsibility lies. In the days of political crisis and government crisis there were those who said that the only possibility for this country was the early elections or the continuity of the Government of the President of the Count Council, which I also thank for the role played in the past months, and there were those who said, instead, that another way was possible, that is, the path of responsibility, that today, luckily of the country, we are traveling. President, we must thank those who in those days believed us and who were isolated, considered heretics and insulted for having identified that narrow path as a possible path of building a positive government path for the country. We were considered crazy. I thank them all, but I also thank, together with Ivan Scalfarotto, two very brave women, who resigned leaving the government: Elena Bonetti, who will continue her work for families and equal opportunities, and Teresa Bellanova, who gave everyone a lesson in loyalty and dignity. [[Applause]] It is a country on the contrary, President, that considers responsible to keep you on the bench, to keep on the bench Colao, Cingolani and Giovannini and to keep Toninelli in the field. I think it was worth it, President, if the investment planning of the recovery plan is there and if these investments are entrusted to the best personalities the country can express. On those resources we play the future; on the environment, on digital, on the new generations. We simply borrowed 165 billion from the new generations. We must leave a good planet - as you said, Mr President - and not just a good currency: it convinces us and it is also what our young people, heirs of the future, ask us. As well as, President, we must finally invest those 120 billion resources blocked on the yards, to ensure that work is created in the country and to ensure that this Italy can be more modern, where businesses can have more opportunities. There are yards blocked by a terrible bureaucracy that we want to do without at last. In the same way, it was worth having the spread to the minima and creating a climate of confidence necessary to convince the Italians to use and invest the 160 billion euros they accumulated during the pandemic. All this is possible thanks to the authority and authority of a new government that is leading this country. [[Applause]] They ask us provocatively why we no longer ask for the ESM: we do not ask for it, Mr President, because our ESM is you and this Government. [[Applause]] We also thank you, Mr President, for Dr Marta Cartabia's heart is filled with justice: we have moved from the live streaming gallows to the enlightened civilization of law. With the confirmation of Minister Luciana Lamorgese inside, then, the women in the ministries who count put them you, without compensation, which is a terrible word that as a man I consider bad. [[Applause]] Thank you because today in the benches of the Government there are Daniele Franco and Roberto Garofoli. Their presence shows how the wind has changed in this country and in Parliament. Populism, anti-Europeanism and sovereignism had put them in the dock of the accused; they were pointed out as enemies of the people. Their presence in this country's government today shows that we believe in the European Pact and the Atlantic Pact. We will have to deal with three emergencies, Mr President, marked in the calendar on three dates of the first three of the month. The tax emergency will come on 1 March, when they start to expire, one after the other, all the delays of the tax deadlines that have dotted 2020. We will not be able to leave businesses alone, but we will have to build paths and solutions to prevent our entrepreneurial system from being overwhelmed by the accounting records. Then there will be the employment emergency: on 1 April, the doors to redundancies will open and it will not help but extend the blockade without a genuine reform of social shock absorbers and no active labour policies. This will be the task that we will have to carry out. Finally, there will be a credit emergency: on 1 July, companies will be charged the instalments of funding that, thanks to a moratorium, we have managed to stop; this is 60-100 billion new credit losses. These are all challenges that tremble the wrists, Mr President. We need monitoring of credit institutions and we need to keep the policy of public guarantees in place: its credibility and its knowledge of the banking system are an absolute guarantee for us to face this challenge. These are three crises, but they can be dealt with in such a way that they can represent three occasions, in order to change our business system, with bigger and stronger companies, and to strengthen an idea of work that is not welfare, but real work, especially through interventions for the South, which, thanks to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe will be inversely proportional to the presence of southern men on your team. In the same way, I believe that we need to work hard on disability policies, in a way that is directly proportional to the fact that we have set up a Ministry, which is not enough because we need serious policies for disability. What you have proposed to deal with the health emergency, from telemedicine to territorial medicine, to strengthening our hospital network, to the vaccination plan. We must change, Mr President! You said well: enough of the useless expensive primroses. We must work on our heritage, which more than anything can make the intervention effective, which is decisive to restart the country. I am referring to our best energies, to doctors, nurses, pharmacists, civil protection and the Army. In the same way, Mr President, we need to invest in culture and tourism, that is, in sectors that, only now that we have missed them, we have fully understood what wealth they could and can represent for the country. As for the educational emergency, it is important to return to the classroom as soon as possible, because it is the only way to eliminate the distortion of a digital teaching that increases inequalities. Mr President, we must, however, thank the teachers and the children, who have done a very heavy job in recent months and have done so under very prohibitive conditions. [[Applause]] I shall conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by quoting a sentence from your speech which struck me very much: There is no sovereignty in solitude. I believe that this sentence certainly represents a blow to foolish sovereignism, but it is also a lesson that, perhaps, we have all learned from this pandemic, namely that no one saves himself. This is also why a Government of national unity is born, to face challenges that would otherwise have been impossible. Finally, let us take your call to the unity of the country: the reformists will be there and will strongly support your Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, without political alchemies, as you asked, but with a spirit of sacrifice, as you said: we do not need intergroups and distinctions, because we support the Government without a spirit of partisanism, but as Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u139	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u140	Mr President, I have listened to a large part of the debate and, of course, to all the speeches made by President Draghi. For six hours of general discussion, if I am not mistaken - then there will be explanations of vote - we have heard a continuous incest, I hope deserved. Therefore, the few speeches - the Senators of our Group will speak, overall, for about forty or fifty minutes: I do not remember well - about the only political formation that has suspended its judgment, deciding to vote no, today, to trust, I think they can mean something, even if it will not be a sum in that unity invoked by the President. In fact, if we weren't there, there would definitely be unanimity. I hope it is not, but I fear it may be, Mr President, because you have had reasons to applaud the fact that members of political formations are completely divided across the whole of Italian politics, economy and social life. He certainly had applause, as well as praises, not always by everyone, I don't know if he noticed. When he spoke of Atlanticism, they did not applaud those of Movimento 5 Stars (and we will see why, in my opinion rightly); when, then, he spoke of Europe in a certain way, he did not have the applause on the right side of his majority side today. Already from this must draw a teaching (and a wish, I hope): that its path combines what we think is difficult to sum up. The teaching is that politics has rules (maybe bad, but there are); and these rules, for example, provide - think a little - a majority and an opposition. There cannot exist in democracy a phrase that somehow says that unity is the supreme good of all Parliament; it would be a blasphemy to even our constituent Fathers. You see, President, we look without any foreclosure, not to your Government, but to your personal work of conviction and direction of this Government. But we would have hoped that the beginning would be more discontinuity with the past, with the previous government. We believed, when someone told us that maybe it would be the Government of the best; we hoped that the sure authority of President Draghi would in some way bear the differences, and we must register, President - he will give us notice - that in his Government (I do not know if you did it in a convinced way or if you had to do it) there are people who can be individually estimated, but there is an important presence of Ministers of the Government Count: Hope, Di Maio, D'Incà, Patuanelli, Franceschini, Bonetti, Dadone, the former Prefect Lamorgese. I repeat: they are people that I can also appreciate individually, but they are a sign of continuity with what we hold responsible - the Count Government, in fact - the bad management of the pandemic and economic failures to the categories. The continuity, unfortunately, we saw it also in the first of its measures: the closure, a few hours after the opening, of the skiing facilities, which reminded us of the DPCM of Conte, also because it is the same Minister of Health to propose it to us. We hope, then, that it will have the strength - the ability to do so - to impose a discontinuity on this path. I say this with reference to all the projects that he has correctly listed: he made us a list for which he said it would take years, probably; he said that you want to leave a better world (it is a good commitment, certainly not for a few months or a few years, if he longs to stay in that place). Well, he made us a very long list of projects: I marked them all, if you want I read them, but I don't waste time; there is no matter of the human scibile that he didn't indicate (or rather, there is, but I tell you later). He did not indicate for all solutions, but he limited himself, in most cases, to indicating the problem without offering, even vaguely, the solution; he offered it in certain cases. He spoke of Atlanticism: we fully agree with you; I hope that the majority of you are. He spoke of the impossibility, in money, of criticizing Europe, and we do not agree with that. Look at the fact that Brothers of Italy - I speak for myself, not for the political forces that support it - never intended to leave Europe; indeed, in my very modest political experience, since we were young, we sang Europe, another Europe. We are therefore with you, Mr Draghi, if you say that without Italy there is no Europe, on the contrary, it is our slogan. This means, however, that we must criticize Europe every time it forgets it, every time it sees that without Italy, as you said, there is no Europe. How many times in recent years have they forgotten this and how many times in recent years have they made the interest of France, Germany or anyone else, rather than having regard for our national interests? It is right, therefore, to talk about Europe, but a Europe in which you have to go head-to-head and you have the chance, if you want to be discontinuous. We will vote no to trust, because we wanted to go to the elections. We vote all over Europe; the President of the Republic told us that we cannot, we will see whether we can vote for regionals or not. We certainly didn't share this choice, but it's behind us now. Let's go see what you want and you can do. He did not say a single word to encourage the presence of those who support it and did not belong to the majority of the Count Government. There is no need for me to defend the League - he will speak after Salvini - but it seemed very ingenious to me the way in which he did not speak about the issues dear to the League: he did not use a single word on security or the fight against illegal immigration; he did not in any way gather the readiness of forces of the center-right to meet them also on the European issue. As I said, there is no need for me to defend the League, but this strengthens me in the role of watchman of the Italian interests that Brothers of Italy assumed. He will find us ready to vote on any measure that will have the courage to put in the field with discontinuity regarding the previous Government. He knows that we are the only allies who do not ask for anything, who do not ask for seats, who do not ask for prebende, who do not ask for Ministers and Undersecretaries (I have seen a certain crowd that was crowded today). We ask you to keep in mind the interest of the Italians, and with this peroration I leave you to your responsibility as an Italian, but above all as President of a Council of Ministers which will have a great deal to do. Congratulations, President Draghi. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u141	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u142	Mr President, I will try to stay in time and I will succeed. President Draghi, in his speech, which I appreciated, he indicated a common commitment to defeat the pandemic and rebuild the country. We are convinced, with the determination to contribute with our ideas to the change of the country, avoiding the risk that everything changes because nothing changes, in favor of the usual known and those who already have the answers alone. That is why politics is not dead, nor is it relegated to a corner. Policy is essential to give direction to change. It will be difficult, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to sum up. Your authority is very important, but it will be difficult and you will need the challenge of synthesis to be met by politics, overcoming yesterday's positions that do not look at the country's change. It is clear that liberal recipes, as well as austerity policies, have demonstrated the inability to face the technological and climate challenges, producing new and dramatic inequalities, even serious tensions in relation to the quality of democracy. Europe has made a breakthrough, I want to say it here not generously, but for what is right: it has done so in the first place thanks also to the work of President Conte and the previous Government. [[Applause]] Now all of us are required to have the courage to change paradigms. There are a lot of things to do in this country and you don't do it in one day. I am interested in the direction of this change: more legality; the fight against corruption and organised crime; more tax and social justice; more value to work, to its quality and security; the aggression, beyond the origin of the Ministers, to the gap between North and South; more training and research to promote the qualitative leap that our companies must make; contrast to the real cultural crisis of this country, starting also from this Assembly, because it is not possible to say everything and the opposite of everything. We must give the signal to the country that we are serious and make a qualitative leap. We need to invest in common goods and the wealth of the community with people at the centre, as well as bring the country into the new modernity, with a transition between old and new. It is on this, President Draghi, that the children and grandchildren will judge us. You have rightly said that we must fight and fight the pandemic by all means. Well, we're working together now, and for me, from this point of view, a message is very important. I hope no one wants to underestimate the problems of coronavirus and pandemics anymore, because nobody can afford to be ambiguous and unclear: first of all the health of our citizens, also for the revival of the economy. [[Applause]] The country is in great suffering and needs responsibility, certainty and clarity. I agree with you on the proposals you have made on vaccines and the indications you have given to speed up and produce them in our territory. President Draghi, I believe that even after the experience of the world pandemic, a qualitative leap is ripe. We take an initiative to overcome patents on life-saving vaccines and medicines in Europe around the world. [[Applause]] Public universalist health service: I do not add words, because this is our future. [[Applause]] Finally, I want to tell you something. We need to change the development model and the key is industrial policy. We must have the courage to make a real industrial policy on research and innovation - not rain money - through the two great variables that are the ecological transition and the quality of work, paradigms of this phase of innovation [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u143	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u144	Mr President, Mr Draghi, I sincerely thank you for the sobriety with which you have been able to convey so much strength and passion to us, with which you have given meaning and dignity to the expression 'national responsibility', which is not an escape from politics, is not a slogan and allow me to say that it is not even a way to mark differences. [[Applause]] It is the idea that brings politics back to its right dimension, that of serving the country and its citizens. You are right, Mr President-in-Office, when you say that we must restore credibility and trust to and in the institutions. This is not only a necessity of today's emergency, but a great democratic issue. Let's all start looking for solutions to problems, working to solve them, not to agitate them. We give up permanent electoral campaigns, which have weighed so much negatively on the institutions and which have also fueled mistrust and distance from the citizens. Our support and our contribution to rebuilding the country will not be lacking and we will do our part, convinced that today it is not necessary to govern thinking only of the contingent and the emergency, but that tension towards the future to which you have called us. We need to direct decisions by looking to the future, to the next generations, knowing that it would be a very serious mistake to hope that, after the pandemic is over, everything can or should return as before. He did well to remind us of this and to draw the consequences from it in his programme, putting the environment, the green economy, the fight against inequalities and digitisation at the centre. These are the issues that, with the forces that have supported the Count Government, we consider central together with the work and on which we really will find in harmony and on which it is right to direct substantial public investments. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this morning you rightly pointed out that there are two decisive factors for the country's restart, two handicaps that we must overcome, with resources and reforms in place: justice and the fight against corruption. It has already indicated well the objectives to be pursued in order to speed up civil proceedings and dispose of arrears; from this point of view, I believe that the planned investments in the budget and recovery plan and the planned assumptions should be confirmed and implemented. They are instruments that, together with some reform interventions, can allow us to continue in the efficiency of civil justice started with the Orlando reform. However, Minister Cartabia, to whom I wish him well, will have two other important issues that cannot be postponed: the reform of the criminal process and the reform of prisons. The issue is not, above all, the prescription, nor is it an ideological debate on this; it is not conceivable to predict that a trial can never end, nor is it acceptable that the trials do not come to judgment. The theme for us is to reform the process, to predict certain times for the different stages, to make the magistrates responsible and to invest in remedial justice and pleas. It can be done and also quickly, then even the issue of prescription would take on another dimension. There are two proposals for reforming the civil process and the criminal trial in Parliament: let us start with those. In addition, the recovery plan is an extraordinary opportunity to intervene on prison building and invest in internal and external treatment circuits. We must work, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Minister, for a reform that puts the Constitution at the centre and prevents prison from continuing to be a player of crime and violence, but it becomes an opportunity for redemption, rethinking and recovery. [[Applause]] Mr President, you stressed the need to restore security and legality to the South and to combat corruption. Unfortunately, mafias are not only a problem of the South, but a national and international cancer that must be fought in that dimension. We need to invest in databases and disseminate best practices to control money flows and procurement and prevent mafia infiltrations, which Minister Lamorgese has begun to do. We need what he said: to qualify the public administration and the purchasing power stations, to prevent the absurd choice for which either you are guarantors of legality or you accelerate the works, contrasting legality and efficiency. Well, Mr President, we recognise the substance and the spirit of the things you have said to us. We're here and we're gonna do our part, looking at the interest of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u145	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u146	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned three extremely important issues this morning. School, infancy and denatality are very dear to our parliamentary group, in particular to myself, as President of the Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence. The world of minors and everything that gravits around you has been largely underestimated and completely erased from the agenda of the previous government. An entire generation of children are having their first life experiences in a world dominated by fear of coronavirus. We can no longer ignore the trauma suffered by children, caused by the closure of schools and accentuated by the impossibility of carrying out recreational activities. The loss on the strictly formative level was also serious, because it is evident that distance learning has accentuated an already existing cultural gap. The digital divides and the lack, in about a third of Italian families, of PCs and tablets, as well as adequate spaces to study, have created A-series students and B-series students. In addition to the gap of learning and skills, however, prolonged isolation at home has put at serious risk the protection of children's mental health. Early school leaving in this year of pandemics must not have irreparable consequences. The Covid is reminding us that the school is not just explanations and questions. The school is also a relationship between compañeros and compañeros and teachers; it is confrontation, friendship and complicity. Our children and teenagers have been deprived of all of this for many months. That is why we have appreciated, Mr Draghi, that he has identified in the rewriting of the vaccine plan as one of the priorities of this Commission. In the light of the new variants, which seem to attack even the youngest population more, it would therefore be all the more important to draw up a vaccination plan for students, teachers and school staff. [[Applause]] , in order to bring our boys back to class and to safety. In addition, forced permanence within the domestic walls has increased episodes of violence, even virtual, between and against minors, as evidenced by the surge in cases of cyberbullying and child pornography. Italy and Europe must address the issue of the network and the risks that lie in it for our children, who inevitably live in a hyper-connected life. Measures to protect girls and children, such as making parental filters mandatory and empowering social network and platform managers, must be applied as quickly as possible, and must be called upon to immediately remove content harmful to children's psychophysical health. It is also urgent to respond to the worrying increase in poverty caused by the emergency of Covid, which you yourself mentioned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The Caritas ranks are getting longer and longer; the economic crisis and the loss of hundreds of jobs have dramatically increased the number of families in difficulty, bringing the number of children living below the absolute poverty line to one and a half million. Finally, I would like to mention the birthday, because we are risking the absolute demographic collapse. Families must be helped by guaranteeing them a system of certain, organic and adequately funded measures. We have a duty to provide support for working families and mothers. We need to double the appropriations for kindergartens and we need to increase the other measures to enable women who work to be mothers without being forced to give up their professional accomplishments or, even worse, to have children. Child poverty, inequality in access to education and denatality not only threaten our present, but undermine the future of the country, because children - let us all remember - represent our future. Thank you for what you can do for children and adolescents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u147	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u148	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome President Draghi to the political arena: good work to you and all your ministers. The League, from the very beginning, was the party that fully grasped the spirit with which this Government was born and was being born. With a sense of maturity and responsibility we have accepted the invitation that the Head of State, President Mattarella, has made to all political forces, because at this moment they are the same citizens who ask us to secure the country from a health and economic point of view. Above all, they say: stop with conflicts; momentarily set aside divisions, unite forces; enough social hatred and political hatred; at this moment you have to play team games. That's what we're gonna do with the League, President Draghi, with you and your government. [[Applause]] Of course, it will not be easy: there are divisive themes, but on which we just have to use some intelligence and some common sense, with that pragmatism, President Draghi, that we have greatly appreciated in the consultations that preceded the formation and the start of this Government; it is there the keystone of everything. Among other things, it can also be a good opportunity for politics, perhaps unique for a new season: that of competence and pragmatism, as I said before, that leads this country to a healthy democracy of alternation. This is our aim and our objective and we welcome the invitation of a left-wing Member, Mr Stefano Fassina, who in recent days has hoped for a democratic system that does not have the basis for the total delegitimization of the opponent as a trait of identity of the main political parties and movements. If we can do this, we will certainly have made a qualitative leap and the good of the Italians and politics will perhaps be able to become more and more protagonist in the scene of our country. On the issue of Europe, President Draghi, and the Europeanist perimeter, do not worry: the League, as you understand, only asks that Italians stay in Europe as Italians [[Applause]] , as well as the French are in Europe as French and Germans as Germans. You understand us very well, because you may be one of the few Italians in Europe who is doing and being respected. Someone spoke of a conversion of the League: I heard some intervention and some hilarity from some Group (from which pulpit comes all this, but probably they don't remember). Let me just highlight one thing: if we look at the choices that the European Union has made in recent times (suspension of the Stability Pact, suspension of the ban on state aid, suspension of the 3% deficit-GDP ratio and the fact that President Macron has called for the revision of the Schengen Treaty to increase controls on illegal immigration and, above all, terrorist infiltration), it is not unreasonable to think that the European Union has also partly converted to the ideas of the League. [[Applause]] This is what we wanted to emphasize. Let's say we met a bit: since we all have to meet, maybe this is the best way. We are also convinced that in order to improve European integration there can be the idea of surrendering, let us say, to the weakest parts, sovereignty to the European Union, and that all this must also be accompanied by the surrender of sovereignty downwards, towards the autonomy of the regions. Only in this way will we succeed in achieving that dream of the Europe of the Regions [[Applause]] and of the peoples who belonged to Altiero Spinelli, the founding father of the European Union, who was also enclosed in the spirit of the 1957 Treaty of Rome. Let us come to the most concrete points: with regard to measures to combat the Covid, we are calling for a change of method, Mr President. We demand organization, planning and not improvisation. If, in order to protect health, the absolute primary good - Mr Errani is right - we need restrictive measures, well come, provided they are rational, well explained and, above all, communicated in good time. [[Applause]] That is what our citizens are asking us to do. With regard to the difficult economic situation, the rules on taxation must clearly be rewritten. There will be a Commission and there will be time for Parliament to debate and debate, but the important thing is that important and adequate profit margins are actually being reconstituted, otherwise we risk not being able to combine job creation with the collapse of employment. With regard to inequalities, let us not forget that we must reduce the gap between guaranteed and not, another fundamental aspect. Above all, as we have also said during the consultations, we must create a climate of confidence in companies, that is, remove all those obstacles that prevent entrepreneurs from doing their jobs and their jobs. [[Applause]] Enough with this climate of presumption of guilt when it comes to talking to entrepreneurs. No, that's definitely not the way. In his speech today he spoke of the choice between the activities to be protected and those that will inevitably die and will have to change their form; we basically want to emphasize the fact that among those to be protected for us are the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the column of the real economy of our country. [[Applause.]] The Monti recipe - which also recently intervened, saying that it is useless to refresh some activities, because in the meantime perhaps it is better to make those who have had problems due to restrictions fail - has failed ten years ago and would fail even today. It is therefore absolutely necessary to change the register. It's theories of sleazy theories, which need to be sidelined. We think of helping our production sector as necessary. Regarding the protection, protection and defence of the national interest, I would like to point out to you the Copasir report dated 5 November 2020, which highlights that Italy is under attack by foreign capital, China and France on all, especially banking and insurance assets. On the question of construction, it has been said by everyone that investment must be restarted. It is clear that in a time of great difficulty such as what we are experiencing we certainly need details; the Genoa model, called by many, undoubtedly is there and has made us understand that Italy, when it wants, realizes the works quickly, in legality and setting an example to the whole of Europe. [[Applause]] Let's not forget that. As far as the environment is concerned, it is right that all investment projects should have an environmental impact. I want my son to grow up on a planet where you can breathe good air and where the environment is respected; there would be no more. If we are to invest, we may start to invest where there are the most polluted areas. I am thinking, for example, of the Padano basin, one of the most polluted regions in Europe. Investment should therefore be concentrated in this area, in order to try to help the population not to suffer from disease, as has been pointed out by many. By taking up its pragmatic spirit on this issue too, let us say that the green revolution, as it is called, must not become a sort of eco-dictatorship that produces unemployed people. I am thinking above all of the automotive sector and so on, which is likely to lose thousands and thousands of jobs. On the recovery, Parliament's involvement is positive, Mr President, but do not forget to involve the regions, which have been completely cut off and are absolutely fundamental. [[Applause]] As you can see, there's a lot of work to do. She is a champion and all the champions will certainly help to win the important games, but they make a lot more if behind there is a team that runs for them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u149	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u150	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must admit that your presence alone has suddenly disappeared from the political debate - debate is being said - issues such as the ESM, wheelchairs, landings, the so-called health dictatorship, the muzzle (which would be the mask): suddenly, therefore, the ESM is no longer necessary (the newspapers no longer talk about it) and it turns out that the wheelchairs have been ordered by the school leaders in the name of the autonomy they enjoy and are very useful, at least in some types of teaching. [[Applause]] The pandemic, unfortunately, is not an invention of Count and unfortunately there are thousands of deaths. Today all this seems incredible, but I assure you that we have listened to this nonsense every day for months. Now, when we clear the field from these fandonies, we can try to describe an objective picture. It is undeniable that, thanks also to the Movimento 5 Stars and to some measures we want, we return to the citizens a better country and a Europe than they were only three years ago, when it began for Movimento the responsibility of government. Together with President Conte we have done so much, working tirelessly, every day, in the exclusive interest of the citizens. The previous speakers have already described what has been done in the various sectors, for example for work, with the employment rates that have been at their highest ever, while the unemployment rate has been at its lowest since 2012. You yourself, Mr Draghi - and I thank you - recognised here a few hours ago that unprecedented speeches have allowed the workforce to be preserved in a dramatic year, proving how fundamental, among others, the work done by our former Minister, Nunzia Catalfo. [[Applause]] And again, for public works, the value of the calls for tenders increased by about 10 percent in 2020, thanks to the decree-law unlocks yards and simplifications of the Government Count and this despite the lockdown. As part of the fight against poverty and social inclusion, we must not forget the success of citizenship income, which has enabled almost three million Italians to escape from an abyss that would otherwise have been safe. Also in the financial and fiscal field the results achieved are important, with the spread in constant and significant decrease, especially during the second Conte Government. As far as Europe is concerned, the Government chaired by Giuseppe Conte has achieved unquestionable results, even unimaginable until a few months ago. The austerity, which has been the master since 2008, is on a path of progressive overcoming, which we trust is irreversible. The recovery fund has been established, as is well known, and for the first time it is based on a common European debt issue, with a combination of loans and grants that for the first time sees Italy as a net beneficiary. In addition, we have achieved the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact and the suspension of the strict rules on State aid, which has finally paved the way for the greater presence of the State in an economy in danger, in a period of pandemic like this, if left at the mercy of the free market. As an Italian, I hope that he can fully do the interests of the citizens, in full continuity with the Government Count and in this way to give reason to his many admirers who in these days describe it with enthusiasm at the limit of idolatry. These last days for us of the Movimento 5 Stars have been difficult, full of inner torments, of lacerations, of doubts, of continuous comparisons, because of our stories, of our convictions, of the principles to which we inspire ourselves, but of course all this is nothing compared to what has been going on for almost a year many of our fellow citizens, workers, artisans, entrepreneurs. You see, President Draghi, each of us went into politics because he was dissatisfied with the way things were going in the country and because he looked with dismay at the sidereal distance between the needs of citizens and the decisions of governments. We wanted a country more just, more supportive, more inclusive, more respectful of the environment and public goods; a country that would provide all citizens with the same opportunities for growth, social and economic, and the same opportunities to live dignifiedly and to build their own future; a modern and efficient country, capable of stimulating the emergence and enhancement of the best energies, capable of growing and rewarding the deserving, but, in the same way, structured to protect and help the most fragile. They've been tormented days. Our members have spoken and asked us to vote yes, to continue to assume on us the responsibility to govern the country at this dramatic time. This result is binding on us parliamentarians, apart from personal hardships and beliefs. I am convinced that our community has not asked us to trust you, President Draghi, or the government you chair. He asked us to trust the citizens whose lives have been turned upside down by the pandemic. He asked us to give confidence to the country, the desire to overcome the difficulties, the desire to rebirth, the desire to continue to change things for the better, every day, step by step. Our members have asked us to continue to be the driving force of renewal and, at the same time, careful watchman to avoid unpleasant returns to a past of austerity, social butchery and letters from Frankfurt. The moment is difficult. So, good luck with you, the country and all of us. Long live Italy and live the 5 Star Movimento! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u151	The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.52 p.m. and resumed at 8.44 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I note that the motion of trust to the Government 1-00320, signed by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Marcucci, De Petris, Faraone, Fantetti and Unterberger, has been presented within the time limits set. I'm communicating that the broadcast is live with Rai. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u152	Mr President of the Senate, I would like to reiterate how crucial you consider Parliament's role and work to be in the challenge we are facing. In particular, in relation to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has been mentioned several times in the parliamentary debate, I have made it clear that governance must be embodied in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, with the very close cooperation of the relevant Ministries, in order to define and implement policies and projects in the sector. I confirm that Parliament will be informed in an appropriate and timely manner about the overall layout of the programme and its specific policies for action. Of course, many issues have been raised during today's debate and I try to respond to a number of specific questions. I hope to address at least the speeches that struck me most and certainly apologise in advance if I did not have to answer some questions. There was a point on the environment and the concept of sustainable development, which is the basis of justice between generations. I know that the Senate is discussing this, in the form of constitutional bills, to incorporate the concept into the Constitution. The government confirms its commitment to this direction. [[Applause]] There is a second point about the environment, about the environmental impact. There is a law of 2015, which provides for an ex ante and ex post evaluation of natural capital policies. The Government confirms its commitment to this point, which is also in line with the guidelines of the PNRR, in line with the themes of the European Semester. A third point that has been raised is the involvement of the social partners and some intermediate bodies. In a rather unusual way, I wanted to meet, during the consultations, the social partners and some intermediate bodies and therefore confirm the commitment to their involvement in the activity of government. The same thing with regard to the Regions: even in this case quite unusually, for what I understand, during the consultations I met representatives of the Regions, of the Municipalities and of the Provinces and, moreover, in many of the things that we have said today, their involvement is not only inevitable, but is essential: certain things are not done, if they are not discussed with the Regions. [[Applause]] On culture, this morning I said that Italy is a great cultural power, recognized all over the world, and also for this, during the G20, we will give great importance to the themes of culture, with a dedicated meeting. Of course, the restrictions necessary to contain the pandemic have put a strain on museums, cinemas, theatres, music, dance, all the live show and every art in general. Culture must be supported, all activities must be supported; the risk is to lose a heritage that defines our identity. The economic loss is great, but even greater would be the loss of the spirit. Much has been done to ensure adequate responses; more needs to be done, and above all the protection of workers needs to be strengthened and the opportunity of the Next generation EU must be taken to increase investment in cultural heritage, human capital and new technologies. The return in the shortest possible time to normality must also concern culture in all its forms, because it is essential for the growth and well-being of the country. [[Applause]] I apologise for not explicitly raising the problem of migration; I will make a few comments on this. As far as the problem is concerned, the most effective and lasting response is a full assumption of responsibility on the subject by the Community and European institutions. It is also one of the most important political issues at European level on the legislative proposals presented by the Commission in September last year, under the so-called European Pact on Migration and Asylum. These are new proposals following the failure of the negotiations, carried out in the period 2014-2019, for the reform of the Common European Asylum System, but which do not remove the political stalemate that continues to block the action of the European Union, especially on the decline of the principle of solidarity. The contrast between external border states, which are more exposed to migratory flows (Italy, Spain, Greece, Malta and partly Bulgaria) and Northern and Eastern European states, remains, mainly concerned with avoiding the so-called secondary movements of migrants from the States of first entry into their territory. Italy, supported also by some Mediterranean countries, such as Spain, Greece, Cyprus and Malta, proposes as a concrete measure of solidarity - to mark the specificity of the management of external maritime borders - a compulsory mechanism for the redistribution of pro-quota migrants. I have made a brief reference to the need for legality and security on which to build well-being, recovery and growth in the Mezzogiorno. On the contrary, I said that without legality and security there can be no growth; it is clear that there are specific instruments - I mentioned tax credit - to be agreed in Europe, but, without restoring legality and security, it is very difficult to grow. [[Applause]] There is, then, a specific risk that we run, as has been said today, precisely in view of the reconstruction season with the funds of the Next generation EU: that of the possible infiltrations of organised crime into the economy following the liquidity crisis that is affecting several sectors. This danger is constantly followed by the Permanent Monitoring and Analysis Body, established in April 2020 in the Department of Public Security, with inter-force composition, with the aim of constantly updating the map of the chains and activities of the mafias, in order to guide the action of contrast. Particular attention is also paid to the provision of funding under the emergency regulation for businesses and citizens in difficulty as a result of the pandemic crisis. Prefects have been made aware of the greatest risks of pollution in the legal economy related to today's emerging environment. The objective is to anticipate a structured state response in terms of prevention and conflict. The monitoring carried out on the follow-up to the Directive has shown, inter alia, that several prefectures have activated forms of collaboration with the chambers of commerce and the municipalities in order to make more incisive the checks on corporate exchange rates in the economic activities most at risk of malavitous infiltrations, especially the commercial businesses and the tourist-hotel sector. [[Applause]] In the same context, a memorandum of understanding was signed with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and SACE in order to ensure the full functionality of the guarantee system to banks that finance companies, preventing the provision of any public source utility to the benefit of economic operators in the smell of bad conditioning. A similar protocol was signed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance with the Revenue Agency. As far as tourism is concerned, I mentioned this morning that some companies may not reopen after the pandemic, but one that will certainly reopen will be that of tourism. [[Applause]] Investing in tourism and supporting it does not mean throwing away the money, as that money will come back. [[Applause]] I said that for a country with a high tourist vocation such as ours it is a matter of course essential, therefore measures must be put in place that allow tourism companies not to fail and workers to protect levels of income. Obviously the exit from the pandemic is the best form of support, but what must be prevented is that in this period these enterprises fail because then you lose a capital that is often essentially human. [[Applause]] Today's interventions have demonstrated awareness of the health, economic, social, educational and cultural disaster. It is on this awareness that this Government will in fact build its credibility. I thank you for the esteem you have shown me, but it too will have to be justified and validated in fact by the action of the government that I chaired. [[Live and prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u153	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u156	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, President Draghi, you have been greeted by Italian politics as a messiah, a deus ex machina, a savior of the Homeland. In fact, even before starting to work, only because of his name and his reputation have set in motion a whole series of things: the sovereignists have become pro-European, the irresponsible have become responsible, the spread has dropped to the minimum historical and the European partners have greeted Italy's decision with great satisfaction and support. It is as if Adam Smith's invisible hand had this time ordered politics, turning chaos into harmony. It seems that an era has passed since the beginning of the legislature in which two anti-European populist forces gave birth to their Government; from there it passed to a Government to the antithesis, Count II, and now all are united in a sort of Hegelian synthesis with a truce between new and old political forces and between technical and political figures. Only women in the government of the best haven't found the space they deserve. It is good that there is some continuity with previous governments. One of the evils of Italy is the fact that those who arrive must necessarily disassemble what their predecessors have done. Well then, having thanked President Conte, but also the Ministers Gualtieri and Amendola must be given notice that they have managed to bring home the largest European aid package in history. [[Applause]] That aid, despite the health and economic crisis, allows us to look with confidence to the future. There are great expectations of citizens and enormous problems to be solved: to those always (too much bureaucracy, slow justice, low productivity of businesses, the black economy), the ones triggered by the pandemic have been added and, if reforms are not done, European aid will not be enough to put Italy back on its feet. We fully agree with your programme's position in Europe and in the Atlantic Pact. We can only be thrilled by the tight path towards greater integration to a common European budget. Our vision has always been a Europe of the regions, where the nation-states lose their importance. What is missing, however, is a reference to the special autonomy and minority languages, the protection of which belongs to the baggage of European values and principles. Unfortunately, the autonomy did not have good experiences with the technical governments: called to secure the country, they did not shine for attention to the special autonomy. We hope that this time it will be different and that there will be good cooperation with the Minister for Regional Affairs. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are right: ecological transition must be a strategic issue in order to leave the future generations a livable world. Firstly, subsidies for environmentally harmful activities must be cancelled and virtuous behaviour encouraged, even if this will not be as simple as we have seen with the plastic tax. Quoting Pope Francis, you said that natural tragedies are the earth's response to our mistreatment. I would like to say this again, including the mistreatment of animals and the need for a new approach to them, not only because they are sentient beings, but also in the context of the prevention of new pandemics. Great attention should also be paid to gender issues in order to promote their representation in apical roles, return to the world of work and relief from responsibility for all unpaid work. Half of the family to men and half of the world to women must be the leitmotif of politics for women. Here there is nothing to be invented: just copy from other European countries that have thought about it before Italy. The experience of the virtuous countries shows that positive actions such as quotas are needed in any case, because this is the only way to overcome centuries of discrimination. And let us not underestimate the feminine form in the language for the apical positions, because - as we know - it is the language that builds reality. President Draghi, in your speech in Rimini you quoted Reinhold Niebuhr's prayer: "Give me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference." Well, you are now in a position to change a lot, and you certainly have wisdom and courage on your side. However, she also needs a government team that allows her to work without constant quarrels, to stop imagining herself in a permanent election campaign, even if - as we see in these early days - the temptation is still very strong. I hope then that you will be able to impose its dry and essential style on Italian politics, accustomed to wasting its energies in great rhetorical marathons. We appreciate your invitation to speak only when you have something to say. Let us hope that this Government will conquer a soul and not be a forced co-existence between dear enemies. Politics may not be just about feelings, but it certainly is not about resentment. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomous Communities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u159	FANTETTI (Eu-MAIE-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Professor Draghi, I am speaking for the first time in this House as President of the newly-born Europeanist Group-MAIE-Democratic Centre and I am pleased to confirm to you immediately and officially what our delegations have already said during the consultations on trust in your Government on the basis of the precipice of European inspiration: not on the basis of what is being said to you today from several quarters, but - as far as we are concerned - on the basis of everything that has been said so far. About forty years ago, I and other colleagues from the Group were already very passionate about the activities of the federalist movement of Altiero Spinelli, protesting in Brussels against the democratic gap of the European institutions or in Strasbourg for the lack of direct universal suffrage of Parliament. Well, in our professional lives outside the palaces, especially as entrepreneurs, professionals and teachers (they are the professions of the members of this Group), and in the political activity that finally led us to Parliament, we have never stopped being pro-Europeans, often critics, but always well aware of the reward of this choice. A few weeks ago, in this House, we intervened by explaining to many intellectually sceptical colleagues on the subject that - for example - without the ECB there would be neither the decrees of rest, nor the income of citizenship, nor the substantial holding of the accounts of the Italian State. That is why, in the face of the Italian citizen who has so masterfully directed that institution, that component of the European federalist construction, and has saved the value and the denomination of the currency that the citizens of the eurozone have in their pockets, we can only reaffirm our gratitude and trust, although not without publicly denouncing and sharing some of the difficult challenges that await it. Let us imagine that you chose precisely the ash Wednesday day to be here, conscious of these challenges and the humility that is required of you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is not an emotional or trusting choice for us, but rather the most rational and appropriate option for both our geography and our history to dictate to us. A simple review, even of contemporary history, is enough to understand it. The tragic results, from every point of view, of the sovereignist and hypernationalist policies of some political movements must always be reiterated. And to those who pretend to ignore them, I suggest in this House to raise their heads and reread the plaque placed above the Presidency. Let us remember rather that in the European Union our country finds the political horizon and the institutional and regulatory hive that guarantee its anchoring to the values of peace, democracy, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and a more incisive international protagonism. Seventy years after the Treaties of Rome, at a time when the European Union, in conjunction with one of the most difficult stages in common history, determined by the pandemic emergency and its economic and social repercussions, has chosen the far-sighted path of solidarity, we feel even more urgent that this historic turning point corresponds to our clear political commitment to the European project. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party are convinced that the dynamics between the state and the supranational European dimension are a subject for which politics must be reappropriated. Instead of easy Europeanism, we want to give political substance to a model that passes by the awareness that nothing is done in Europe without the commitment and also the renunciation of each Member State. It is thanks to those renunciations that a common discourse is strengthened, ranging from the common stock on the capital markets, ripped from German friends despite their falcons of the previous financial orthodoxy, to the respect of the democratic distribution of the powers of the State, urged to friends a little 'immemori of Poland and Hungary; from the recognition of the rights of migrants, shared by all Europeans of the southern shore of the Mediterranean (the friends of Malta, Cyprus, Greece, France and Spain who interact with our shore, vital in the Mediterranean), with which cooperation must be relaunched, until the imposition of a fair taxation of enterprises and the effective control of goods entering the common customs area, to be demanded also in the professional offices and ports of Dutch friends; from the fight against tax evasion to the contrast of frauds on European funding in Italy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the very authoritative thrust of President Mattarella, the political crisis in Italy has called to mind all those political forces which are recognised in the guiding principles of a Europe that is more integrated and closer to the citizens. We hope that all these political forces will now be sincere and in future consistent with this approach, because we believe that Europeanism must become a compass to guide government actions, in continuity with that of Professor Conte, and to make the crucial choices for the future of our country. A merely formal Europeanism dictated by political opportunism would not give and will not give Italy the solutions it needs, but would result in a simple cover for differences and fractures between the main political forces. With the new multi-annual financial framework and the PNRR, the European Union has invested 1,800 billion in the recovery, to which the Sure and EIB funds are added, totalling over 2,400 billion in stimulus, an exceptional manoeuvre in which very much has been focused on Italy. We think and must therefore say that, as now, the success or failure of a country is so fundamental to the success of the European project. Even from the quantitative point of view, Italy is destined to make a difference, but success will be measured not only by the exit from the crisis and the economic recovery, but also by the realization of the "Hamiltonian moment" if we want to consider the real mutualization of debt, or at least a "delightful moment" that we are living and that can produce a real fiscal union and, consequently, the fully political one of the European Union. It is therefore time to emerge from the declaratory dimension, from a vision that makes Europe a severe stepmother or a distant benefactor, depending on the circumstances. If we fail, the European Union project will fail because no one will yet be putting money, even their own, on this path. In this they serve - as you as an economist teaches us - clarity of analysis of problems through their overall vision and, above all, univocal answers on how to manage them, allowing individuals and businesses to anticipate such choices by adopting the most appropriate behaviors in relation to their own needs. The health objective is clear and with a loud voice it has been primarily professed by all the members of our Group, both today in the public statements in general discussion and in those reserved in previous consultations. We want a change of organization to win the pandemic and in this respect we are very comforted by the program you have set out. The economic and social objective that the government must achieve in a concomitant way is soon said: an annual growth of GDP of at least 2.5%, that is, higher than the average cost of debt to allow to reduce it and assure to the next generations, the next generation, levels of well-being equal or higher than those that the ingenuity and sacrifices of our predecessors have guaranteed to us. As I said, we are not too old to fail, but old enough to make everyone fail. President Draghi, in a few years in Europe we have moved from his whatever it takes, the monetary expansion to overcome the financial crisis, to the whatever it costs, regardless of what it costs, the exceptional fiscal stimulus needed to overcome the pandemic crisis. This led to an unprecedented leap of 23 points of GDP, but it was inevitable. However, we can also imagine a return to normality sooner or later with an increase in inflation pressure in the eurozone, which, if its government has not achieved the difficult reforms, but necessary in the public administration, tax, justice and digital transition to restart the country, can be disastrous and probably irrecoverable. We will be organising a first conference on New Europe in the course of next week as a Group of Europeans; it is an exercise we believe to be fundamental as federalists. We believe it is essential that national parliaments are involved and we federalists aim to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament and to move from the current unanimity vote to the simple majority vote in the Council... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u160	Senator Fantetti, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u163	BELLANOVA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened very carefully to your words by rediscovering the taste that sobriety and precision guarantee all the details and those words, one by one, return and prove - and we are grateful for this - the reason for our choice and our courage. Today, in this House, we believe that they are finally evident to all the reasons why a drift of visionary reformists was right by indicating in the risks of immobilism and assistantism all the limits of an executive who had entrusted to the emergency its main, if not only, reason for existence. We fully share, with a thread of pride, those calls to the republican spirit and national interest: that is what animated us. A month ago we had recommended our colleagues to recognize the reasons for our choice not in the caricature of a duel, but in the confrontation between a country that cannot give up the necessary reformism that brings it up to its best energies to relaunch the European and international role and a residual country, to which only the hope of being too great to fail remains. We said - and we repeat this - that the difference between reformism, growth and welfare is all here and that the priority, long before the destiny of the individual political forces, was to serve the public interest because it is here, inevitably, the key that opens up to the future; that future that your programme, Mr President, inaugurates with a facility where we find many of our words of order and of what has guided our commitment in the past months. The program you indicate will require daily choices, difficult, ambitious, complex and courageous. Each of the Ministers will be called to interpret his programme and make it real, will be committed every day to choosing and deciding between the easiest solution, often less innovative and ambitious, and the most complex and difficult, but also decisive and virtuous. The construction of the future, the quality and foresight of policies: this is what every choice, act, reform and measure will be measured. Of these qualities and farsightedness you, President Draghi, will - we believe - be the guardian and the guardian. That is why we are not passionate about the question, which for days presided over the discussions outside and inside the institutional rooms, whether its would be a technical or political government. We have said from the outset that the question was badly asked and your speech shows this very clearly. I challenge anyone not to trace an eminently political facility in his speech. If therefore I do not believe that a representative of Italy Viva has to say many words to say of the full consent to what has been heard, some words are rather spent on the features of the majority that will support this Government. Defining it heterogeneous is not risky: it is a finding that in this group there are different sensitivities and identities. The question remains whether this heterogeneity is a strong point or an index of weakness. It is up to us all to live up to the challenge you have set. Let us be clear: it is not a ritual call to unity, but an appeal to the quality of political dialectic. We need hard and rigorous work, which builds answers; the art of finding the most advanced point of mediation; the stubborn search for the best synthesis. Quality of the decision and courage of the vision will have to characterize every choice to the full, all the more so if it is difficult problems such as having to take decisions that impact on the concrete life of citizens. Its call for timely and timely information, such as the duty to continue to face the pandemic, to start with the urgency of the vaccination plan, while at the same time starting everything necessary to repair the major damage, with a phase of growth and development. You have also mentioned this: these days there have been many considerations about the inconclusivity of a political class which, in the wake of the emergency, is forced to resort to those who are defined as technicians. I, rather than technical, see people of different experiences and established knowledge on the benches of the Government, well aware of the political task that we are called to carry out. It is up to this Parliament to contribute effectively to the enormous amount of work involved, in fact denouncing the image of a brimming company, often voted for ineffectiveness and unfortunately forced to lower or barter mediations, even as a sign of surrender to the internal conflicts of the individual forces. The primacy of politics also passes from here. You said it precisely: the pandemic did not rain on a country in good health, because we discount not a few previous pathologies. Work, active policies, presence of women in the labour market, productive investments, unblocking of yards, oriented training, centrality of the new generations, renewed capacity of the Mezzogiorno and its ruling classes in being the driving force of relaunch, legality as an inescapable driver of territorial development, adaptation of public administration, reduction of social and territorial disparities, sustainability as a defining condition: these - we agree - are some of the themes that will be challenged from now on. When the blockade of redundancies ends, we cannot yet be harnessed with instruments. The massive and dramatic decline in female employment already obliges us to concrete and demanding responses. The reform of social shock absorbers is a non-negotiable issue and it will have to be defined how to innovate the tools available and define new ones and with determination we must be able to remedy the training delay that has inevitably spilled over on the younger generations, especially in the most fragile segments. If it is indisputable that the permanence in the euro is not reversible, it is true that, in order to leave behind a good currency and a good planet, in order to do as little bad debt as possible, each of the indicated dowels will have to fit perfectly into a strategy that aligns all of us in the need to prevent rather than repair, even correcting - as is necessary - with all the evidence of the recovery system. In this, the ability to vision will be the fundamental element to understand well what and how to protect, what and how to sustain in transformation. On this we thank you for the clarity of your words. It was that vision that we wanted before and it is a vision that, after listening to it, made clear how she will guide political action. We appreciate the responsibility to indicate, not only to the new generations, the direction within which our country will move, the junctions on which to direct growth and investment, guaranteeing to all investors, Italian and foreign, legal certainty and sustainability of the times. On this point - needless to say - innovation, simplification and deburocratization are no longer to be postponed. This is the urgency of the reformism that we have at heart and we must have the awareness that an alternative must be built - to say it in the words of Italo Calvino - to this daily hell in which, at the dramatic count of the dead and the sick, very serious human, cultural, social and economic damage is intertwined. I want to be clear, because this is the figure that characterizes us and the ambition that feeds us. Reformism is a word often abused and, even more often, poorly used. The reformism that fails is the ideological one and the resentment; the reformism that we love is the one that puts reality and its change at the centre of politics, in the interests of people and territories; a reformatory process capable of defeating its traditional enemies, who lurk everywhere. The vast economic, political and social sectors, on the right and on the left, with the strength of the proposal and the political dialectic: a true proof of maturity to which all the political forces and all the ruling classes of this country are called. If this can be scary, because it risks zeroing rents of position, ancient and recent, the gain is infinitely greater: the ability to act today to make way for the future; that future that must be built, piece after piece, and that leads us to say that reformism is and must be the antagonist, not only lexical, of cynicism. Yes, cynicism: the worst enemy of future generations who await from us responsibility for the choices and generosity of decisions; the worst enemy of those who, precisely because of the pandemic, are paying the highest prices. For us power is a verb: to be able to decide and be able to do. That's why, just as Calvino writes... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u164	Senator Bellanova, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u167	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, President Draghi, the Brothers of Italy Group will not vote for this Government. And he will not vote for it, even more convincingly, after listening to his report and reply, which we consider very vague, very generic, even elusive. We have pointed out to her a number of subjects, important for us, during the consultations, but we have not received a single answer on the subject of immigration: nothing on the subject of security; nothing on the subject of justice; no reference to the web tax; nothing on what will be of the income of citizenship, which costs EUR 8 billion; on what we will do for recruitment, since a decree of dignity paralyzes and casts the world of work; nothing on the dramatic theme of the ristors to enterprises. President Draghi, ours is not a choice for spite or for a spirit of contradiction or - as someone foolishly said - to choose the easiest way. The opposite is true: we choose the most difficult path, so it is true that we walk it alone or almost. [[Applause]] The path we have chosen, Mr Draghi, is the path of coherence: coherence towards ourselves, first of all, and coherence towards voters. You probably do not know that, Mr Draghi, but about three years ago we, like now, signed a pact with our voters, with the citizens. It said in that pact that we would commit ourselves to creating a center-right alternative. So, never to the government with the Democratic Party, never with the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I would also like to remind you of some passages in your speech, which I have here with me, in which you quote the Republican spirit and the best values of Italy. We believe that the Republican spirit and the best values of this country are first and foremost being built by saying and repeating in this House that in life, as in politics, promises are maintained and the word given must always be honoured, no matter what it costs. [[Applause]] We do not expect our opponents to applaud us for our decision. We do not ask for anyone's consent: everyone makes his own choices and they are all legitimate choices. We believe, however, that we deserved respect. In a political landscape in which parties and leaders say one thing on Monday, Tuesday another thing, Wednesday something still different and so on for every day, there is a party and a leader who simply keep the point: they do not sell and do not get bought. [[Applause]] They do not haggle with anyone: they do not blackmail anyone, they simply act and work in the sunlight, as we are used to doing. We are the right of government. We are proudly governing power in many regions and in many municipalities. We are in Europe where we are included in the Group of European Conservatives and our leader is also its president. But we are not right-wing government with any government and at any cost. We are truly convinced that governing with groups and with people who have not only different ideas, but opposed to ours is not only a betrayal of coherence, but also wrong, useless and ultimately harmful to the country. [[Applause]] The demand was and remains that of elections immediately. Do not tell me that asking for elections is a gesture of irresponsibility, because in democracy giving back the word to the citizens is never wrong. Now we would have a strong and cohesive government, hopefully for us as center-right, but with the difference that that government would be voted and chosen by the citizens. [[Applause]] Is there anyone, especially among the centre-left benches, who always gives lessons in democracy, who thinks that the call for responsibility means a Parliament without opposition, without free voices, criticism and dissent? I listened with these ears in the summer of 2019 and last December the parliamentarians of the left shout to be careful of the full powers whether it was Salvini or Conte. Now, on the other hand, there is no one who cares about a Parliament made up of only a thousand Members. [[Applause]] We take the heavy task of representing the opposition in this country, which is as important as those who govern. Then there are the intelligent people who explain to us every day in the newspapers and on television that this is politics and that politics is the art of the possible. Of course, it is the art of the possible, but not of the impossible because not even politics can transform opposites into equals. And we, President Draghi, have had the demonstration in this legislature first with the unnatural attempt of a yellow-green alliance, ended badly, and then with the yellow-red alliance, ended even worse, that is, with the shame of the Senate turned into a market. [[Applause]] Now you want to explain to us that the sum of these failures is a credible alternative for this country? Then you also explain to us that this is a technical, institutional or other government. The truth that we all know is that there are only political governments and that too is so, like all the others. It is so political that we have seen the discussions between the parties to indicate the Ministers; we have seen a new Government composed of so many old faces and in continuity with Count II that it resembles a Count III. In addition, in this Government the PD and the left as a whole dictate the rules, hold the keys of this majority and control directly or indirectly six very important ministries of spending. It is so true that this was a political choice. And, if you have a minimum of intellectual honesty, you should confess that the general enthusiasm that you experienced a few weeks ago compared to a Dragons that formed the Government of the best with the dream team quickly turned into a burning disappointment. But it is also said that it is now a matter of being serious, of being responsible and that we cannot escape, because there is to save Italy. But, excuse me: do you want to save Italy with those who have buried it? With those who took her to the abyss? [[Applause]] With those who have spent 150 billion euros and still have not managed to restore entire production chains? President Draghi, let me make a point that seems provocative, but it is not. I expected you to find at least 30 seconds in an hour of intervention to remember the despair of mountain entrepreneurs, who have been on their knees and have not seen a lira for a year. [[Applause]] You told them to open, with very strict rules, and then, four hours after the reopening of the lifts, you said you were joking. I wanted to hear clear words from you and your Government, because this is no longer a question of rejoicing: this is about compensating for the damage you have caused to these economic categories that remain - I repeat - in desperation and seems also in the disinterest of the Government. I have almost finished my time, Mr President, and I must start at the end of my speech. I just want to say that, among the many things that I do not share, there is the management of health and I want to make an appeal to you bipartisan: it is possible that out of 60 million Italians there is no better than the ineffable Commissioner Arcuri [[Applause]] , the inventor of primulous pavilions, the greatest expert in waste of public money, the one who deals with everything wrong? In conclusion, we will be on different sides and we will try to help our country on different sides. We're not gonna be a servile opposition, and we're gonna have our backs straight. We will be a patriotic opposition, without prejudice and - believe me - completely disinterested. For many reasons, many of which I have not had time to explain, we will be convinced of the opposition of your Government, but we will never be against the interests of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u170	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, fellow senators, President Draghi, in his programme communication, has rightly and appropriately made it clear that this is not a coalition government and that what is being formed now is certainly not a coalition majority. It is a government of the country, it is an emergency government, supported by forces that remain very different from each other and that maintain their identity and projects certainly different also for the country. Our decision to join this majority and to support its government was not easy, Mr President, and I want to acknowledge here that we must respect all the suffering, difficulties and discussions that each of us has had to face. You have to respect them in all groups. Why did we basically make such a choice with suffering? You see, President Draghi, this government that will soon receive trust is formed after a sudden and unmotivated interruption of the Count's Government. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you here - and it is not for pleasure - that the Count Government has done not only important things, but also found itself facing an unexpected situation like the pandemic and has tried in every way to respond to what was the country's emergencies and needs. It was unmotivated, because I would like to remind someone that in fact our work has been interrupted for two and a half months, two and a half months that were fundamental and important to support the country. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that, if we are all here to discuss the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, on which Parliament, in all the new conformations, will be central, it is because that Government has put the weight and strength of Italy to the 209 billion euros and has been decisive. [[Applause]] If today you and all of us can be here to say that this is a strongly Europeanist Government and that Europe has become very different, because in Europe we have put our problems together and we want to find a common solution and solidarity, it is because the Conte Government has done what seemed unthinkable some time ago. I am not just saying this to claim: no one can forget all these passages, because they are essential to us. So we took the decision to support it and vote for trust not only because of a sense of responsibility and because we responded to the dramatic appeal of the President of the Republic, who could not remain unheard, but also to face with this huge majority the challenge of change with our ideas, for the Italy we want to build. We do not change our mind, but we really think that the exit from the pandemic, which is still besieging us, which has changed so much and has created so much suffering, which is still before our eyes, can also be an opportunity. Mr Draghi, you have rightly said that the light does not turn on again, and everything will be the same as before. It doesn't have to go back to the way it used to be! [[Applause]] That's why we chose to support the government. Mr President, let me say, not out of whining, that you have grasped the link between the pandemic and the aggression that we have inflicted on ecosystems with our models of development and our way of life. The problem is caused not by megalopolis, but by the way we attacked nature and ecosystems. This is a link that we must not forget and the challenge of ecological transition, Mr President, is not only technological, but is the challenge of protecting ecosystems and preserving them. I have heard of the Government of Reconciliation, but the first reconciliation we must achieve is with nature and creation. [[Applause]] We are therefore faced with a great opportunity, because from this challenge we can really come out in a different way, converting our production systems, and we must convert our lifestyles, in terms of sobriety. I would use this word in this sense, because we have to change lifestyles and sobriety must be the point of view with which we approach. The challenge for the green transition is an overall challenge. Mr President, you mentioned Pope Francis. Pope Francis' quotation is right and I make it mine, but what the Pontiff teaches us is integral ecology, which means rethinking our way of life. The challenge, precisely, is not only technological, but also to protect, to know how to convert production systems and our consumption, to change the way we are and to invest in our cities. It is the opportunity of innovation, to create quality jobs. It is the covenant with our children, with future generations. We cannot leave them a world where there is a risk that there will be no more life; because the planet will be saved, but life on the planet will not be saved, living species will not be saved unless we make the fight against climate change a leader of its government, President Draghi. It is a challenge that must be accompanied, because it is clear that the transition must be fair, and when I speak of the right transition it means, again, that in the challenge of conversion no one must be left alone. You have to accompany, solicit, make sure you can go out with what? With the possibility of a more just society. This word is sacred to me, because the current pandemic has highlighted the inequalities that we already had: gender, territorial, social. Therefore, the challenge we face today is to take up inequalities on our chests. There is no possibility of the future if we do not do so, if this does not become obsession, the guide of our action. Will it be simple? I don't think so. President Draghi, mine is an environmentalist-environmentalist formation; thirty years ago we were all fooled when we said what could happen to us; We were all fooled, thought we were Cassandre. Today it is the heart of the Next generation EU; This is the heart, and to this we must link the social infrastructures, the new quality work. And the dignity of work goes hand in hand with conversion because that is the model on which we must aim: a new model of development, a new humanity, a new relationship between human beings and the rest of creation. This is what we must do obsessively; it is not a question of technocrats or technology, it is a question of political vision that must be able to guide. This is where political choices will be made - and I conclude - and on these political choices, on this challenge, on the challenge of health, on the universal public health service.... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u173	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, important representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start from the last passage of your speech, Mr President: today unity is not an option, it is a duty, a duty guided by what unites us all: love for Italy. There was no better way to start this government adventure, in the interests of our country and our national community. The security of Italy is what imposes that unity, that different vision of politics, of the public thing, that assumption of collective responsibility of all of us parliamentarians, of the whole country, of our community; the fight against the pandemic, a different march, more decisive in terms of vaccinations, the ability to interpret correctly and to implement the recovery fund based on a strongly environmentalist attitude. I want to underline his words, his reasoning, his approach. We come from a government experience - the recent one - that we have supported correctly, to the end; a government that has achieved important results. If we're talking about 209 billion today, it's because of the government's activity. It is thanks to the fact that that Government and all the political forces that have been part of it have allowed Italy to raise its head in Europe and create the conditions for these funds to reach our support and benefit. [[Applause]] We have also very much appreciated the international framework in which you have rightly placed us: from the irreversibility of the euro to a trend towards a common budget of the European Union, to the constraint on the Atlantic Pact as a course of action always, without whether or not. It is a framework that cannot and will never be challenged with this Government and this majority. This mission can reach a positive goal and have the results hoped for. We need some qualities: knowledge, therefore the competence of the government team, which seems to me to be guaranteed by the choices that you, Mr President, have made; the courage to face a complicated crossing that does not allow mistakes and must necessarily lead us to a positive result; the simple humility, which may also appear trivial, to make us all available to our country. [[Applause]] Today it would probably mean failing not to be ready for this effort, as well as not responding to the high appeal made by the President of the Republic in those difficult hours for our country. You called him a government for the country, and that sounds like a proper way to define it. We are all simply called upon to do our duty to respect, support and help our national community which has come from a very complex period due to the health and economic crisis. It is now a dramatic habit to listen to the numbers on television relating to the hundreds of victims of this pandemic. Every victim is a pain for the family and the community, as well as a defeat for all of us. We have a duty to do well and soon. Every job lost is a defeat for us all; every company and small VAT number that makes business (and therefore creates work and distributes wealth) is a heritage that we have a duty to defend today. That is why we ask you first of all that your Government adopt very quickly an executive act to distribute the important patrimony that the previous majority has made available to the country, that is those 32-33 billion euros for the refreshments that may not be sufficient, but that immediately must be made available to the workers who are losing their job and the tourist, commercial, industrial and craft enterprises that are in difficulty today and need to be helped. [[Applause]] We have a duty to help and save them, keeping this spinal column of the country at the disposal of the relaunch and development that we hope will soon arrive. You, President Draghi, also spoke of sobriety by addressing your ministers and the entire government. I would like to extend this invitation to all Members, particularly those who have decided, with science and conscience, to support this Government. Given the political differences and the origins, the debate that has taken place in recent years has been complicated and difficult. An effort must be made to find a moment of union in favor of the country and put aside the divisions, making the national interest prevail with capacity, availability and personal commitment. It is right here, in Parliament's classrooms, that this can happen with the daily discussion in the Commissions on the issues we care about. Moreover, this composite and difficult majority can only have a synthesis and a single voice, that of the President of the Council who, with his authority and experience, can afford to make a synthesis - precisely - in the interests of Italy. There can be no daily controversy, distinctions, different underscores, differences on issues that will be relevant for the future of the country. We can only say that on the divisive issues we must have the courage to speak, to do so in time, not to put the Government in trouble, which would mean putting our country in trouble. The needs of Italy and our fellow citizens who face dramatic daily problems, of workers, traders, entrepreneurs, of those who lose their jobs, come before our interests as partisans and as partisans. We have an ally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have important allies on the territories: the Regions, the territorial authorities, the Municipalities, the Provinces, the intermediate bodies of this country, who hoped for the birth of this Government because they knew that it would mean a more rosy and better future for our country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this in the words of a patriot whose ninety-five years have passed since his death a few days ago; a death that was violent, at the hands of those who hated freedom, I am speaking of Piero Gobetti. [[Applause.]] He told us and wrote that those who know how to fight are worthy of freedom. We want to be worthy of freedom and worthy of the future, to be proud of our behavior. A government of national emergency, of national unity, that accompany Italy towards recovery, with little time to achieve ambitious but essential goals: this is what lies before us. With this ideal approach, with great conviction, Mr President-in-Office, for the emergency of having a government that is up to date, so that you and your personal history are represented, but above all for what today on the solemnity... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u176	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish the Forza Italia Group of the Senate a special wish for good work and a special welcome to you and your Ministers, to the delegation of Forza Italia, which is now monocratic, but usually collegiate. [[Applause]] Good work to all of you. Our welcome is particularly warm, because we at Forza Italia feel a little fed by your Government, which has been encouraged from the beginning by our President Berlusconi [[Applause]] to get out as soon as possible from the dry of the previous season's immobilism. And we, Senators of Forza Italia, our Group, thanks to the value of our unity and our cohesion, have made possible the birth of this Government and I am sure that you will give us credit for it. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all we congratulate you on your strength and your resistance, because it was a rather considerable stress test that is being carried out here in the Senate today. [[Applause]] We usually have a bit quieter times and rhythms, a little less syncopated. But I must say that your speech really convinced us. He convinced us to give her a conscious and responsible trust, because we heard that it was a truth speech, a deeply serious and sober speech, but very empathetic. He thrilled us with his emotion. [[Applause]] It has been sartorial in its content, clear and concrete in its objectives, but deeply aware of the critical nature of the real world; a real world that has often been lacking in this House and which we have often called for. [[Applause]] You, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, will find in the Senators of Forza Italia loyal allies, competent (you have seen it from their speeches), of value, with a deep political passion and an equally profound connection with the territories and the real world, once again, because we are not parliamentary haters. In our veins flows the same blood as those artisans, traders, entrepreneurs, tourism operators [[Applause]] to which you have referred and to which you have proposed recipes that we share, of course, because we have been proposing them for six months. They are people for whom the world died a year ago. The lights have turned off, indeed they have turned off the lights; the doors have closed and the shutters have lowered (how many times we have used this expression), perhaps forever. I must say that his metaphor has been very effective, because, when those lights are rekindled, the world will not be the same as before; everything will be very different and we must take care of them. [[Applause]] We must be generous, as you told us, we must help them, because on their departure depends the restart of our country. They expect compensation and not in a random way; they were promised, as Mr Marcucci reminded them. We have a budget stakeout of 34 billion, not yet paid; some compensations have arrived, perhaps a little too small, others have never arrived. Some integration banks have arrived, others have arrived late, others have not arrived and have been integrated by private entrepreneurs themselves with great personal sacrifice [[Applause]] , because, especially from a certain size onwards (the small business), for the entrepreneur the worker is not an employee, but is a family member. [[Applause]] He therefore makes every possible sacrifice for his employees and this has happened. I have to say that in our veins there is also the same blood, a little concerned, of those taxpayers, families, property owners, freelancers, VAT matches, those famous un guaranteed to which we all refer, but which we have not yet guaranteed. [[Applause]] We are very concerned about what will happen to those 50 million acts of the Revenue Agency when they are unlocked. Who are they gonna hurt? Everything is very confusing and this frightens entrepreneurs, scares families, scares people, because many of these debts are Covid debts, much of today's poverty - you rightly referred to social hardship - is Covid poverty. And that's what we have to deal with. And again, we have the same blood as those entrepreneurs who have entered the crisis already anguishing, because - as you recalled - already burdened by the waste of the crisis of 2007-2008 and 2011-2013. They have already arrived in debt of oxygen, burdened with debt, and the liquidity decree did not do them good, but aggravated their position [[Applause]] , forcing them to make depreciation and return plans too short and certainly unsatisfactory. We must take care of them, we must take care of them, as you told us you wanted to do; and we will do so with you, with you, because these are our recipes. And yet we were very pleased with his sensitivity. We have always been at the side of those whom we have called the heroes of the trenches, of those who have guarded hospitals; we have always been close, as far as possible, to the sick and their families, to the families of those who are no longer there. [[Applause]] , because unfortunately each of us paid a more or less intense tribute to Covid. A heritage of suffering, a heritage unfortunately of experience, wisdom, emotions and feelings has been dispersed. But we have to get out of the corner of pain and you have given us hope in this sense, because the only way out of it is not to create a contrast between total lockdown and total chaos, it is not to create the contrast between yes GDP and no GDP, between yes health and no health. No, you have to govern the pandemic. [[Applause]] , and she told us the key word: massive vaccination plan. We have also said this during the consultations: this is the first economic measure to restart Italy, Europe and the world; only in this way can we really start again. We believe in a transparent, efficient and effective logistics very different from what we saw in the previous season. She told us a story that we liked and that played very well in our ears, because it seemed very concrete, very serious and very professional. He told us about hubs, national technology platforms, vaccines that reach Italians and not vice versa (because this has to happen). [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am trying to move forward quickly, because my senators are going to put the timer on for me, and also the Presidency. We have a lot to say, but we also have a lot of time to tell us. All these goals we could achieve if the Italy model took advantage of the "variant Dragons." Do you know what the "variant dragons" is? The discontinuity. [[Applause]] We did not share the choices of the previous season and we strongly opposed them, so we expect - and we are sure that will be so - that the new conductor will play to his musicians, new and not, a different score, that of his programmatic lines. Because even if the helmsman remains the leader of the same ship, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must be the guarantor of a change of course. [[Applause]] Just a quick notation. There is one sentence that we like very much and that we repeat, also because it is part of a considerable legislative activity of our Parliamentary Group: those who deprive young people of the future do the worst of inequalities. Do you recognize her? It's yours and we share it. [[Applause]] You must be the priest of Next generation EU, which is the booster of growth and good future. There is a bad debt and a good debt, and there is a bad future and a good one. We want the good future of Next generation EU, and we will be the guardians of worship. You will be the priest and we will be the guardians of worship. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you spoke of love. Well, those who truly love this country will not get entrenched in the stands by critically observing the events [[Applause]] , but he gets on the field and fights to give our country, which suffers but will rise, a great future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u179	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are here, the League is there, convincedly. We don't see Senator Ciampollo, but he has plenty of time to get to the Chamber before the final whistle. [[Applause]] Already the world has changed; compared to the sale of senators of a month ago, the world has already changed, and this is already its first historical merit: to have brought seriousness to this House, and for this we thank you. [[Applause. Comments]] We made a choice of courage, loyalty, love for the country and we chose Italy. We put the good of Italy before the party interest. This really means to us first the Italians: to put the health and work of our parents and our children before the interests, quarrels or party begas. We have a common value, you mentioned it more than once during the intervention: freedom. Educational freedom, freedom of enterprise, freedom of care, freedom of thought. Benedict Cross spoke of the religion of freedom. Today is Ash Wednesday, the beginning of Lent that leads to rebirth and we want to follow the principles of freedom and return to freedom. You rightly spoke so much about Europe and one of the founding fathers of Europe, De Gasperi, in 1948 said that Western civilization must be defended at all costs. We are with you in defending the values, rights and freedoms of Western civilization [[Applause]] , regardless of everything and everyone. Sovereignty belongs to the people and a sovereign people, as you recalled, can surrender shares of their sovereignty if the entity to which they are transferred is democratic. Europe is our home, it is the cradle of Christianity, freedom, democracy, rights and work. The Europe we want is that of well-being, happiness, growth, the protection of the family and life, always and in any case. [[Applause]] However, it is not the Europe of austerity, budgetary constraints, cuts in hospitals and schools. It is not Europe that leaves for hours the Italian truck drivers queued at the Brenner and does not ask for reciprocity for those who instead enter Italy. [[Applause]] I do not think the founding fathers thought of this when they built the European Community. The confidence in your Government, which is convinced by me and the League, by the first party of the country, means giving more strength to Italy in Europe. If Europe guarantees health and work, let Europe live. If Europe imposes unemployment and closures and fails to order vaccines, to criticize and change them, it is not a right, but it is a duty of every citizen of this country. [[Applause.]] Let's get to the facts. I thank you for your conciseness and precision. This from our point of view must be the government that stands out for its concreteness, speed and transparency. Health: we don't care if they made a mistake on vaccines in Brussels or Arcuri made a mistake. We are interested that Italians who ask and want it can be vaccinated and put in safety. So let's do whatever it takes to save our people's lives. [[Applause]] and good do those governors who look elsewhere to go and recover what doesn't come after wrong contracts. Surely you will agree with us on the need on the part of the Ministry of Health to avoid television, hourly and daily presences of virologi in search of fame that terrorize the Italian people. [[Applause]] We can't do this anymore. Work: we welcomed the commitment not to introduce new taxes, no to the assets, no to the increase of the Imu, no to the levy on the house or on the current accounts, no to new taxes and a progressive cut of the Irpef. The League is a concrete political force. We don't stick to the acronyms or labels; if the government undertakes not to increase existing taxes and gradually cut taxes on businesses and families, for us it will be its first great success [[Applause]] And on this we will be at your side with conviction. I would therefore like to focus on bureaucracy. If, as we think, this is a government that refers back to Europe, we cancel out the Italian procurement code, which has complicated business life and we adopt European procurement legislation and reopen all the firm yards, from North to South. [[Applause]] There cannot be a Europe that is good on Mondays and Tuesdays are not good: if Europe is to be, Europe is seven days out of seven, that is what we are carrying as a government thought. As for the environment, everywhere in Europe - Mr Draghi, you know - waste becomes energy, heat and wealth. In Italy there are only 36 waste treatment plants, in France there are 90 and in Germany 120. We cook French and German, we transform waste into energy and wealth, because shame like the land of fires enrich only the mafias and are not environmental protection. [[Applause]] We do not settle in the environment of the living room: environmental protection and protection of the work go hand in hand. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I will be visiting the TAV yard in Chiomonte on Monday, because Europe is asking for it and the TAV has to do to the full. [[Applause]] Third pass, Statale 106 jonica, Gronda di Genova, Pedemontana Lombardo-Veneta and - dulcis in fundo - respecting the environment, with a project that will make great Italian engineering in Europe, the bridge on the Strait of Messina, which absorbs Taranto steel for four years. [[Applause. Comments]] This is Europe, this is development, this is growth and it is work. Yay! Europe will help us. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u180	A little silence, please, let us finish the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u181	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are for Europe of facts, of well-being and of work, not for the Europe of chatter that we leave to someone else. Europe is for us to defend Italian farmers and fishermen. The choice is between natural food and artificial food. [[Applause]] We are for the Mediterranean diet and the products of our land. Europe - and I thank President Draghi who spoke about it both this morning and tonight - is asking us to defend the Italian borders, which are European borders and for the League to hear President Draghi talk about a change of pace in Europe and of repatriations and expulsions for irregulars is something that fills with joy and pride and will have us at his side. [[Applause]] Oriana Fallaci, a great Italian, said that there are moments in life when silence becomes a guilt and speech becomes an obligation. The League, President Draghi, will be at your side to rebuild this great country. Good job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u184	LICHERI (M5S). Dear senators, kind senators, President, President Draghi... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u185	Please, just a moment of silence. Sit down. A moment of silence, Senator Licheri is speaking, let's hear him. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u186	LICHERI (M5S). ...we would like to begin our last speech of the day with a testimony to you dear, President Draghi, who handed you your father, after reading an inscription in a German city, among other things at a very difficult time in European history. This entry said this: if you lost the money, don't worry, because with a lucky deal you can recover them; If you have lost honor, don't worry, because with a subsequent heroic act you can redeem yourself; But if you've lost your courage, worry, because it means you've lost everything. [[Applause]] President Draghi, in the very sign of this parable of his, today the Movimento 5 Stars asks you above all, beyond everything, one thing: courage. The courage to look at facts through a perspective that does not belong to his world. As we have all said today, the citizens are bitter and disappointed, and so are we, the activists and we, the parliamentary spokesmen. The double betrayal that we suffered in the course of a year and a half still causes much pain, we cannot deny it. It has left deep wounds, which are struggling to heal. Then there is a political crisis, whose reasons escape the most, because the only true reason could not be said. It was forbidden to say. The only real reason was to kill the Movimento 5 Stars. It was politically killing outgoing president Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] President Draghi, please sculpt before you the parable that we have reminded you today. We have perceived courage in his words, we have seen encouraging lights in his speech: the courage to declare the sign of continuity of the many good things done by the Count Government; [[Applause]] the courage to continue along the path of reform and change; the courage to declare, as you have done before everyone here today, the goodness and quality of the work done on the Italian recovery plan; the courage above all to admit the need to combine monetary policies and expansive fiscal policies. [[Applause]] We have appreciated that, but our yes, as my colleagues have already said, will never be unconditional. It has been clearly told that it will be a watchful yes; I dare say a watchful yes. You never take our yes for granted, so that we - allow me, President Draghi, this little verbal license - will break your ass. [[Applause]] We will break her boxes: the pandemic is still far from being eradicated. On the political table we have the block of dismissals and the blockade of evictions! We're gonna fuck her up! [[Applause]] As a parliamentary group in the Senate, we have gone through - as I say for all of us - very difficult days, terrible days. We wondered, at this point, but we, with our anti-evasion and anti-corruption laws, with our citizenship income, with our decree dignity, with our public investment bank, with our proposal to use tax credits as a means of payment of goods and services, with the tax advantage in favour of our companies in the South, with the decontribution in the recruitment of our young under 35 and our women, how can we be her incentive? How can we be her puppy? We have asked ourselves these questions these days. Can we actually be sticking to him by the opposition benches, sitting next to the Brothers of Italy and Giorgia Meloni, or can we sit at his tables to write with our free, honest and bold pens the laws that will draw the future of our children? President, we have decided: give body and legs to the intuition of our Beppe Grillo to equip the country with a Ministry of the ecological transition so that finally the words energy transition and sustainable mobility are no longer just empty slogans in the mouths of politicians. [[Applause]] It's proof of the facts. President, do so and you will have our support. Good luck and God help you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u189	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I have to ask for your speech because we have to denounce something very serious: during President Ciriani's explanation of vote, the only one in this House to have voted against the nascent Government, RAI interrupted the live television, censored President Ciriani and sent publicity. If this is a test of regime, we're perfectly in it. Mr President, I would like you to speak immediately on the RAI and ask that the intervention of the only opposition force in this House be postponed in full. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u190	Senator Balboni, I take note of that. We'll check if it happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u191	Please, I see too many assemblies and I even see senators hugging. I don't understand. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, please, we haven't finished yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u193	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u194	FACTORS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, dear President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a pandemic and the vortex of an unparalleled economic and social crisis. True, the country's demand is for urgent interventions for health and the economy, but we have been in the swamp for months because of the irresponsibility of those who decided to blow up everything in the middle of the pandemic. President Draghi, if the citizens' questions are right, that is the answer you are proposing to us to be wrong. President Mattarella's mandate was for a government of the best and without political references, while you are sitting in the midst of the political archaeology of our country. They are those characters who, in years of policies of ferocious privatizations and partitions without modesty, have made the country fragile and unable to face this phase. On his right there is a minister, for example, who had proclaimed just before the pandemic that territorial health was not needed, that basic doctors had to be abolished and care had to be taken on the Internet. You speak of social justice, but you were responsible for the Greek disaster. I was Vice President of the European Union's Political Commission when Greek women came to talk to us about the increase in infant mortality in Greece because of the Troika. It is a past responsibility, Europe has changed, but this does not change reality. In your speech, for example, you have never approached the adjective "public" to the nouns "health" or "school", it is important to know if we are talking about public school and public health. This, dear President, is a parliamentary Republic and Parliament does not have the duty of unity in supporting the Government. Parliament has a duty of representation, of support for the government, of the pungolo and also of stimulus and sometimes of criticism, otherwise it is not a democracy. [[Applause]] Those who voted for us in 2018 thought of a change, not a restoration, not a government of "all together passionately," without a common vision, without a common and political address and without an opposition. Therefore, in respect of the citizens we represent, whom we have represented in the 2018 election campaign, on behalf of my favorite senator Nugnes, who sits next door, and on behalf of the Italian Left, we announce the birth of an honest, responsible and proactive opposition and will see that it will be more useful than remote opportunistic praises regardless of the situation. Thank you and best wishes for good work, because you will need it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u196	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u197	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, instead of men, we have replaced numbers and instead of compassion for human suffering, we have replaced the assault of accounting balances. These were the words of Federico Caffè. These were constant words in the preaching of the Pesca economist. She tried to pretend to be social today, but all her words, put in the backlight, reveal the neoliberal nervation that allowed her to make her career. They reveal the new language of hooded finance, to use another expression dear to Professor Caffè. You, President Draghi, are one of them, you're a hooded finance man. [[Comments]] You spoke of the future: which one? What you will build with the autopilot, as you said, showing a deep allergy to democracy, which is annoying to everyone, apparently? And where do these reforms lead with the autopilot? They lead to the triumph of multinationals, of finance that devours all economic spaces, to the substitution of human capital with artificial intelligence. You have filled your mouth with ecological challenges. However, we have the territory raped by the ecocomaphies, which park their capitals in the tax havens of your beloved European Union. Did you see anything at the ECB, or did you not see anything? Or did he behave like when he was Governor of Bankitalia and MPS took Antonveneta's package by paying it to weight of gold under your eyes? The green you're talking about will be another gift to foreign economies. His fanaticism insists on defining the euro as an irreversible currency. The GDR also thought that the wall would be irreversible, but it did not deal with the desperation of the people. She, with the whatever it takes, saved a coin, but did not repair the human suffering from this produced. You speak of the creative destruction of businesses, but in the ridge of a financial, health and social crisis neoliberalism will only increase unemployment, close small business and despair with banks. But you are here for this, to complete the transition work of Italy, from the world industrial power to other people's amusement park, because in Goldman Sachs they teach you this. You are here to close that process of sale started with the privatizations of Britain, continued with the mysterious trick of its derivatives and with its fiscal compact. You are here today to deliver the Italians to the market fire eater; you can take off the hood, President Draghi. [[Comments]] You are now the governor of Italy, Parliament as you see is yours, with the exception of a few consistent ones. Italexit's vote is "no"!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u198	Senator Paragon, we need to use terminologies that are more appropriate to the respect of this House. [[Applause]] PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I mentioned Professor Federico Caffè! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Our vocabulary is very rich, so you can say what you think, using respectful words. PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I will gladly present to you and President Draghi the volume "Against the hooded of finance," a writing by Federico Caffè. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u200	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u201	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the programme speech given by the President-in-Office of the Council demonstrates the turbid continuity between the most negative of its past, compared to what it is intended to implement today. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you announced today that you will work towards greater competition, just as you have done yesterday for the worst privatisation in Italy. Today, in listing the limited tasks assigned to the State, you have clarified your hostility to public entry into the economy, just as yesterday you have been the protagonist of the destruction of Italian state enterprises. You today announced the need for Italy to surrender greater portions of national sovereignty, just as yesterday it contributed to violating Greek national sovereignty and so imposed heavy conditions on Italy, with the note letter of the ECB of 2011. You have now suggested that it is necessary to distinguish between the companies to be saved and those that must be left to die, by introducing, cautiously, the real purpose of your descent into the field, namely to ensure that the funds of the recovery plan are spent in the interest of banks and large companies, strongly interconnected with the European supply chains, with good peace of small businesses, craftsmen, workers and the weakest sections of the country. You have not been able to say anything concrete and credible today in relation to the fight against inequalities, nor have you been able to pronounce the word 'public' when you spoke of school and health. Finally, it has not made the slightest mention of the need to revise the rules of the Stability Pact, nor has it made the smallest criticism of austerity policies, because it knows very well that the European elite, from whom it comes, as soon as the crisis has passed, will come upon us, asking for the amount of aid provided. You say that unity is a duty; I say to you that it is a duty to oppose your vision of society and, as a representative of the Italian people, I will keep myself free and vigilant, in order to counter any measure that you and your servile majority should take against the interests of the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u202	Colleagues, before the next explanation of vote, I would like to inform you that we have established the issue of Senator Ciriani's intervention. There was a change of network announced, from Rai 3 to Rai 2, and nothing was lost from Senator Ciriani's intervention. [[Applause]] They even tell me that underbelly... [[Comments.]] Excuse me, colleagues, I'm saying what I've established and I'm referring to what I've been told. Then you'll do your checks and we'll review the matter. So, when there was a change of network, the intervention was reported under the belly twice, for a minute, and indeed they tell me that there was an addition, because twice, just so as not to interrupt the thread of the speech, in the change of network, a minute of speech by Senator Ciriani was reported. That's what I found out. And then we'll be able to resume the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u203	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u204	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u205	GRANATO (M5S). They divide the servants, they divide the herds, they settle together on the bloody fields of a scattered fold that has no name. These three verses, taken from the "Adelchi" of Manzoni, perfectly describe the political situation of Italy today. A government with everyone inside, born from conspiracy of palace that caused the end of the mandate of President Conte, ordered to betray the popular mandate conferred on the Movimento 5 Stars, through 30% of the consents obtained on March 4, 2018, does not represent me and will not have my support. A democratic Republic, in order to define itself as such, does not need a Bulgarian majority working in a single sense in the total acquiescence of all the media; rather it needs those who exercise a vigilant, serious opposition, attentive to the interests of the community and the citizens. Elective incompatibility with too many political actors within the new Executive, antithetical to the values that have always marked us, are an obstacle for me insurmountable to trust, I do not make it mysterious. On the other hand, it seems that almost all political parties have overcome ideological differences because of a sense of responsibility - they say - not perhaps in order to actively manage the debt resources that derive from the many budgetary deviations that are going through the current pandemic or the recovery fund. I have therefore decided, in line with my principles, to respond to the appeal of a substantial group of activists of the Movimento 5 Stars, who have been in a meeting for two days without stopping to make us not miss the comfort of their closeness and their support. They were responsible for asking us for a clear stance against the construction of a government in which, as a parliamentary group, we could never be decisive. They wrote to us: We want it not to be finance that manages the economy, but politics, so that constitutional values are guaranteed, starting with respect for the democratic system expressed through popular sovereignty. Because we believe that the economy must play that social function provided for in the Constitution and is not an instrument to enrich few by impoverishing many. For this reason, taking note of the evolution of the official position of the Movimento 5 Stars, we will carry on those historical, identity battles and the political program with which we presented ourselves to the voters not three years ago. We will do so from different positions, not opposed. My heartfelt thought goes to our activists, who still need to hope that today's is not the end of a dream, but only the beginning of a different adventure. An adventure that will see us at their side always and in any case, in the careless... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u207	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u208	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the last few hours have been hours of great difficulty for me. Who knows me knows how close I am to the values and history of Movimento 5 Stars: principles that will forever be my political inspiration of the present and the future. The battles for Movimento are the emblem of attachment to that flag that is always in my heart. No one takes a step back from his own identity - you reminded me this morning, President Draghi, and he is right - and they are in fact my history and my identity, which are proper to the Movimento, which prompted me to take this difficult and tormented decision, which has set me in a different direction than that of the majority of the Group. I do not trust a Government born from a group of various parties; then, with Forza Italia, which, among other things, we have always firmly opposed [[Applause]] , and I do not trust a government where we will be condemned to political irrelevance, risking not protecting citizens. As an Italian, as well as as as a senator, I am not clear about the reasons why the Count's Government has been sidelined. [[Applause]] A government that had made enormous efforts to try not to leave anyone behind and that, between a thousand difficulties and a thousand problems, tried to do the best. Incidentally, all European countries have the same problems and no one has thought of a government of broad understanding. I believe that what you have said in your report, Mr President, although well-intentioned, will advance the needs and expectations of the usual known, forgetting the last, the poor and those who are struggling on a daily basis. Moreover, the words on the transfer of sovereignty to areas of internal weakness do not make me omen anything good. I've never liked extreme decisions and I don't feel smarter or smarter than those who decided to lead the battle from inside. For this reason I turn to my traveling friends, for a careful and profound reflection. With the torment in my heart, I will vote in dissent from the Group, but I will be ready to change my mind about issues and initiatives that benefit the community. President Draghi, I'll give you a big good luck. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u209	Colleagues, please comply with the rules on distancing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u211	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u212	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, Mr Draghi, I have always respected you without any doubt about your person. Our roads also crossed in 2008, a terrible year for savers and the world economy, subjugated by the primacy of paper finance and toxic derivatives after the crac Lehman Brothers. I have no prejudice over you and your honored career. On the contrary, I have always estimated his ability since 1992, when he inaugurated the privatisation season that the evils interpreted as state sales to business banks. I am also thinking of the moral hazard of derivatives, the scavenger contracts that he contracted, cost at the end 38 billion euros of interest, the revolving doors with Goldman Sachs, the washing of dividends and the accusation of having rigged Greece's accounts. I admired his qualities even when, as Governor, he guaranteed the soundness of the banks and the protection of savings, while some of us chained themselves to the gates of Palazzo Koch. I think of the courage with the resolution for the purchase of Bank Antonveneta by Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena at the triple of its value, the climb of the European Central Bank after the letter signed with Trichet to impose austerity, balance in the budget, reduction of pensions and social state, free tears and blood at the expense of exodus. I also think about this for some German banks, exempted from compliance with the BRRD Directive, the expropriation of bail-in savings, the contiguity with the EUR 55 billion of Deutsche Bank derivatives and the Supreme Court of Cassation ruling on seigniorage. On the other hand, I was horrified by the bieco cynicism when he arranged for the ignoble forceful closure of ATMs in Greece after having saved the French-German banks with a questionable opinion of a private society, still secreted, and by the G30 recipe that theorizes Darwinism in economics to beat the pandemic. I am thinking of the reset to erase the Troika's crimes against the Greek people, with children without even breast milk, dried up by despair in the breasts of mothers, malnourished and malformed and old without food, drugs and medical care. Scenes of ruthless contempt for human life sacrificed on the altar of neoliberalism and blind austerity will remain indelible in history and in my memory. President Draghi, I still respect you, but for these reasons you will not have my confidence. [[Applause]] Whoever is afraid dies every day; I wish you and your beloved shores... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u213	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the remainder of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u215	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u216	THE MURA (M5S). Mr President, President Draghi, in your speech in this morning's Chamber, you made clear your Government's policy lines, which perhaps, as such, are still too vague to show which direction this Executive, composed of almost all the parties present in this House, wants to go. The words of this morning have not clarified what measures we are going to take, but words, as always, bring out a cultural orientation and a direction that I am genuinely concerned about. I was struck, for example, by the reference made to human capital, which is in itself distant from that of the person I wanted to hear more and not only declined in the formulas of staffing, income of natural persons and persons of working age. I think this is significant. Human capital conceptually encompasses that set of skills, skills, professional skills and relationships owned by an individual in relation to productivity. I have chosen this example because I believe it is emblematic of an orientation towards a corporate vision of the country, of the school and of the health; a vision from which instead today we need to get away, because the companies give priority to the profit at all costs. This government will have to give priority to all Italians, to that network of micro-enterprises that constitute the true fabric of the Italian territory and that today are in difficulty and will be in the future, if we do not accompany them towards the transition. Talking about human capital is like talking about natural capital, like all the resources that nature offers us to produce services and goods for man, so still profit. Of course there must be profit, but without irreversibly threatening nature, our home. We need, therefore, a programme that sees all the crucial sectors that make up our society related, where the ecological economy puts itself at the service of the protection of the balances of nature, while at the same time embracing the social balances and the rights of people. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke of ecological transition, which in my opinion should not be bound by the obvious limits of green capitalism. In this regard we await the regulation of taxonomy for the classification of sustainable production activities. Nuclear? The gas? The capture of industrial CO2? The energy from the garbage? But if the ecological transition is understood by you only as a matter of energy markets and sectors and not as an integrated and cross-cutting strategy that aims at a sustainable development model, you will not go very far and we will end up living the so-called greenwashing. In conclusion, I do not think that a Government of all can be a Government on behalf of the Italians; instead I see a Government in which the consent of all delegates the decision to a few. That is why I shall vote... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u218	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u219	GIARRUSSO (Mixed). Mr President, Mr Draghi, you are a very serious person and your words are heavy. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are used to other fora, where the words you have spent could mean the fortune or misfortune of entire nations, but here the words are written on the wings of the wind or on the flowing water. On the other hand, your words - let me quote them - are clear and I must say to you that you have put my colleagues in front of what will be the future scenario and its intentions, without inflaming them. He said that the national states remain the reference of our citizens, but in the areas defined by their weakness they surrender national sovereignty to acquire shared sovereignty. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would not like these areas defined by their weakness to be our economy on the knees for the Covid; I would not like to think that the money from the recovery plan is not just a cost in terms of interest, but can be used to buy the democracy of this country, whose sovereignty is not even for sale for 209 billion euros. In fact, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are in front of those who exercise sovereignty but do not have it and cannot dispose of it; neither I nor my fellow senators nor you, because the ownership of sovereignty belongs to the citizens of this country, who earned it seventy years ago with blood, like all nations, and with that sovereignty is paid.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u221	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u222	DI MICCO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to give confidence to a Government that completely overturns the will expressed by the voters in 2018, by making a substantial restoration. [[Applause]] That would be enough for me to say 'no', but I understand that the reasons here must be more sophisticated and deeper. And then I want to quote the war to the name of Giuseppe Conte, begun as early as May last year; a maneuver woven on several fronts and heart attack of strange relationships between fake left and fake right, united in the narrow visit to someone beyond the grates, and that has never been a matter of themes nor of complete rewriting of the recovery plan. The themes remained those and maybe now the recovery plan is fine too. Only the usual maneuver of the Palace, all here, moved from within this Assembly, and the germ of the corrosion of a policy that for the first time with Giuseppe Conte showed itself transparent and free has proliferated, starting from the same benches of the majority, from the same ones that would also be part of this majority. A maneuver that has led to a political crisis that, in such a tragic historical moment, still appears as an absurd paradox and it is: it is a grotesque paradox, the great undertaking of those who in pack, suddenly, began to howl to the moon, but who today are no longer concerned about the tight times in which to complete the projects of the recovery plan or the fifth decree restorative. The immense urgency that caused them to sedate as soon as the possibility of this government took shape. I do not know the technicians - few, for a government of high profile - who are part of this Executive, except for the narratives (some worrying, at least for me, that I do politics with a value matrix well defined by the perimeter of my conscience). I cannot judge them, but I can analyze the numbers, and I know that I am facing the prospect of such a heterogeneous majority that it becomes difficult even to agree that, at this moment, what we breathe is air; a vast majority with also political forces inside that for us - which once, at least, in this we were "us" - represent the antivalues that we have always fought, where my parliamentary strength, my Movimento 5 Stars, is actually a minority. On the subject, there are some who are divisive even within the newly formed interparliamentary group, so much so that this cannot offer real guarantees and deny it is blind. Just as we have not had certain guarantees on the rules and paths already started, first of all the income of citizenship and the reform of the prescription, while it is certain that the super Ministry of the ecological transition is not at all super and that the Ministry of Economic Development is at our antipodes. For all these reasons, Mr President, and for a thousand others that I could list, if I had time, and despite... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u223	If you think so, deliver your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u225	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u226	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, before any membership comes the duty of citizenship: these are words spoken by you this morning, Mr Draghi. I crossed that threshold convinced I would give my support and trust to the government. I have listened to all the speeches, clearly within the limits of my possibilities, and I must say that I do not feel like closing the door completely, but I do not feel like opening it in the same way. There is talk of ecological transition and attention to ecology. The etymology of the word is from oikos and logos. Oikos has two meanings: environment and home. Who should the house be inhabited by? I do not understand why there is continuity with previous governments in not considering the key issue, that of demographic decline. If you go to see all the studies, you see the correspondence of the curves of an economic crisis with the demographic decrease: it is a fact. As far as recovery plan is concerned, it is necessary to submit a project on this subject. Another question: there is much talk of teachers, of the 120,000 recruits, therefore of the precarious, but one never mentions a question that has ancient roots, before the so-called law on good school (No. 107 of 2015); we have teachers who for five, ten, fifteen or twenty years ask to return to their territories. Speaking of bond is a non-meaning; the term itself is also an obnoxious one. It must be borne in mind that teachers must be able to work in an area close to their residence, also for logical issues of transmission of traditions, knowledge and territorial stories. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have a very high regard for you and also for some ministers (not all of them clearly: as in class councils, we cannot have all the best professors). The initial opening was there, but at this point I manifested my abstention from the vote. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u228	Senator Ciampollo, for what? CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She wasn't actually registered, but she always comes to the last moment... CHAMPOLLO (Mist). Mr President, I have come and signed up. I didn't sign up at the last minute and I didn't get here now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, Senator Ciampollo, I'll take note of that and give you the floor. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, Senator Salvini, who I believe has never worked in his life, continues to offend my person for having voted for the trust of the Count Government, supported by the Movimento 5 Stars, in which I have been militant since his constitution and even before, having personally founded the first meeting of Friends of Beppe Grillo in Puglia. Salvini himself, with his bare torso, showed his vulgarity to Papeete; he hated Rome and the South; he claimed to work on Radio Padania, an unauthorized radio on the 740 channel of terrestrial digital. I mean, that Salvini justifies his vote by announcing my end. Being bearers of ideas and initiatives that are not in line with dominant thinking cannot justify the vicious and violent campaign of hatred and falsehood that has been cleverly carried out against me by this sort of crooked politician, a clown.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u229	[[Comments.]] Just listen to his words, like those of Porro and Briatore, to understand the ethical and moral level of these people and the political area they represent.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u230	Watch the terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u231	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Rather, I have to clarify some positions on which I have been attacked ignorantly and without any possibility of replying. [[Comments.]] First of all, xylella: for years in Salento a special detergent is used to protect the olive trees from the bacterium; a simple remedy and perhaps for this object of ridicule, even if it has been validated by recent scientific studies of the University of Bari. [[Comments.]] I never said that xylella doesn't exist or that it cures with a shampoo. It is the cut of the olive trees that serves nothing, considering that the bacterium is present on over thirty-five species of plants. What, then, would they like to cement everything? Then the use of medical cannabis as a remedy for the deadly effects of Covid-19: medical cannabis is a powerful anti-inflammatory and pain reliever without contraindications, used in Italy in the treatment of serious diseases. Already a year ago I invited Minister Hope and some researchers to deepen the topic, without success. Well, today the scientific publication of the Medical College of Georgia in the United States attests how CBD, the principle of cannabis, reduces the cytokinic storm triggered by the immune system, attenuating and avoiding the most serious damage to lung tissue and artificial ventilation. Moreover, it is not only the virus that afflicts the citizens; lockdown, social distancing, masks and curfew are devastating the psyche and annihilating the social rights won by effort and with the blood of our predecessors. Anticovid policies are being implemented in the world much less restrictive and with better results. In Sweden not a single day of lockdown and there is no obligation to mask; in Belarus all activities are open, including discos; Germany's hard lockdown, even very hard, does not include curfew and masks are not mandatory outdoors; in Holland the International Court of Justice has just declared the illegality of night curfew. The results show deaths in line with normality and without house arrests of citizens. Having said that, it is necessary to restore and respect the inviolable rights of citizens by putting the Constitution first. Because of the disagreement about the irreversibility of the euro, about the consistency with principles and also about the presence of people like Salvini, I announce my vote against, so I reserve the right to evaluate the individual measures for the good of citizens and not of parties. [[Applause]] CHORO OF VOICES. Ciampolillo, Ciampolillo!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u232	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote with appeal to Government no. 320, presented by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh, Fantetti and Unterberger. As stated by the Conference of Leaders, which I am not seeing, each Senator will vote exclusively from his place, declaring his vote. I remember, for the umpteenth time, that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Garruti is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Garruti. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, is appealing. Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Alfieri, Anastasi, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augussori Bagnai, Barboni, Battistoni, Bellanova, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bongiorno, Bonifazi, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bottici, Bressa, Briziarelli, Buzzone, Buccarella Calderoli, Caliendo, Caliguriri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Carbone, Cario, Casalati, Corone, Catalfo, Cattaneo, Causin, Centinario, Cesaro, Cirinna, Cinna, Collina, Coltorti, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corbetta, Cranco, Crimi, Crimini, Crimi, Criminelli, Cranzo Senators say no: Abbot, Angrisani Balboni, Barbaro Calandrini, Ciampolillo, Ciriani, Corrado, Crucioli de Bertoldi, De Carlo, Di Micco Fattori, Fazzolari Garnero Santanchè, Giannuzzi, Giarrusso, Grenato Iannone La Mura, La Pietra, La Russa, Lannutti, Lezzi Mafffoni, Mantero, Martelli, Mininno, Moronese, Morra Nastri, Nugnes Ortis Paragone, Petrenga Rauti, Ruspandini Totaro Urso Zaffini. The senators are abstaining: Dragon and Lanièce. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u233	I declare the result of the roll-call vote with appeal on the trusted motion No. 320, tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh, Fantetti and Unterberger: [[Senators present 305 Senators voting 304 Majority 152 Favorables 262 Contrars 40 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. [[Live, prolonged applause. Many congratulations to the President of the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u234	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-298.ana.u235	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 24 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.44 p.m.
