ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 8 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2005, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Boldrini and Hope MPs; Zan and others; Scalfarotto and others; Perantoni and others; Bartolozzi, and 2205. I would ask the President of the Second Permanent Commission, Senator Ostellari, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify a few things to you and to all the senators and senators present and to discuss facts, before and against the narratives. Some people in fact insist - we have heard this not only today, but also in recent days - that the draft law Zan has been blocked in the Commission: I have heard that it has been blocked for seven or eight months and today for nine months. This narrative, however, is not real and so I would like to talk about objective facts. We therefore start from here, telling and evaluating the facts, even those which occurred at the origin of the measure under consideration, which was obviously different, in the Chamber of Deputies. The first incardination in the Commission, in the Chamber of Deputies, dates back to 24 October 2019: I remind everyone. Hearings were held, from 18 February 2020 to 22 July 2020, and then the final phase, with the approval of a unified text in the Chamber of Deputies on 4 November 2020, was launched. I would remind everyone that the time spent in that branch of our Parliament was equal to one year, and I would say something more. To the Senate, as the President will remind - but I want to remind everyone, because I want to remind the facts and separate them from the narrative that you want to tell the country - the assignment in the referent to the Commission that I honor to preside is of 5 November 2020. The first reminder, the first request for calendarization of this text dates back to 13 January 2021, a few months later. Someone will say that it could not be done sooner, because there was the budget session. All right, but I remember someone accusing us of slowing down the work, because in April of this year, 2021, there was a fact - always a fact, not a narration - that is, there was a letter, sent by me, on behalf of the entire Bureau of the Commission, to the President of the Senate, in which there was an acknowledgement of the presence of additional draft laws, which dealt with the same subject, which had to be linked to the text under consideration, the Zan bill, which came from the Chamber of Deputies, and since they were in different places, to be joined together, had to be reassigned first. That is not what President Ostellari says, but the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in Rule 51. This request, Mr President, was highlighted to you in April 2021, after I had pointed out to the Commission's leaders that there were more texts - and therefore a technical problem - for eight times. Here are the documents: the planning of the work is clear, it is sent to all the Commission's leaders. That problem, if you wanted to solve it, you could solve it first. But that's it. We move on; we are therefore at 7 April 2021. The President's reply arrived on 13 April 2021; soon after his reply, Mr President, we did not delay. In fact, on 27 April, with the work planning office, which I had to do because of course there was no unanimity in the programming office integrated by the Heads of Groups, I had to have the schedule of work voted in the Plenary Commission, which is usually not done. Because of problems of course linked to different opinions on the timetable and the appropriateness of the timetable itself, I had to proceed in this way, as in the Rules of Procedure. On 28 April this text was put in the Commission's timetable and from there we start working in the Commission on the text. Requests were made for the disjunction of texts and for the conjunction of the new text signed by Ronzulli. Well, in May there were five sessions devoted to this measure, while in the following month seven sessions were held, with 60 audit staff. The time devoted to this measure was therefore not seven, eight or nine months; the time devoted to this measure in the Commission was less than three months. And in these three months - and I say this to everyone, Mr President - what have we been able to record? We have been able to hold hearings of associations, magistrates, constitutionalists and educators; we have been able to listen to people who had not been heard in the House, because I remind you that this provision is not what was the subject of a hearing in the Chamber of Deputies. This measure has come out of the Chamber of Deputies and we are here today. We have been able to understand through these hearings, Mr President, that there are no ideological reasons. I am not called today to make a judgment on this; you will do it, we will do it later in the debate. There are obvious problems of a technical-juridical order, which have all emerged in the same direction: from the associations of feminists, Arcilesbica, constitutionalists, professors, educators. I remember and invite everyone to review the auditions of Professor Flick and Professor Mirabelli; go read what they say. They concentrate, Mr President, on three fundamental points: Article 1, Article 4 and Article 7. In this way we, through the hearings, have opened the debate. Evidently, perhaps it was not possible to do so before, because there were those regulatory problems. But we have been able to do it today and record it today, these days, thanks to this work. What happens next? A note has also arrived from the Holy See, which has been acquired in our file and which I handed to you for knowledge, Mr. President. It points out - and I have almost finished, Mr President - the same legal issues. They are not ideological nodes, they are legal nodes. And in order to find a solution, Mr President, at that point we also had a political table. And the political table, formed obviously by the majority forces that support this Government, has brought out, meanwhile, the availability: this is the first data. The second fact is that at the political table, attended, of course, by the Presidents of the majority groups, some amending proposals were received from the parties Lega-Salvini Premier - Partito Sardo d'Azione, Forza Italia and Italia Viva. Following these comments, I was able to work on a mediation hypothesis which, of course, took into account the comments received from the Groups and what we heard from the hearings. I have therefore tabled a proposal for mediation in that context; a proposal which, as you will remember and as everyone will remember, has received substantial support, at least as a starting point, from the majority of the Groups. I recall, in fact, the interventions of Senator Pharaoh, Senator Unterberger and those who have expressed a commitment to dialogue. At that point, I was also suggested by Senator De Petris, despite the timetable set for today and voted then, to proceed with the submission of the proposal that I had presented at that political table. I, then, went to the Commission, took the invitation of Senator De Petris and explained what the proposal was. Therefore, it is black and white: the mediation proposal is and is in the Report of the penultimate sitting. Mr President, that proposal starts from a step forward that all the groups have taken, including those opposed to the text. It starts from a premise: you take the Zan bill as the basic text and on that you make basically three modifications. Some people think they're too invasive, some less, but that's the way. That is the road, dictated by constitutionalists, professors, associations, educators and also by the Holy See. Of course we are a secular state, but this is not under discussion. That is not the theme. The issue is whether those legal problems are problems that we want to solve or not. Mr President, there is availability on the part of many groups. I have heard, today and also in recent days, many personalities, both left and right, who have intervened regardless of what their political leader says. At this point, as a convinced jurist, I say that, before we proceed to vote on a measure which presents clear technical problems, it is necessary to check whether there is political readiness. This political willingness, in my opinion, exists in the majority. There is someone who, of course, perhaps aims to prevent the adoption of a good text. I say that, in view of the work we have done, today it is my duty to represent this need in this House to prove to the very last the political will for dialogue. I'm starting with the objective data I expressed earlier. As the Commission, we have been working on this measure for less than three months: not seven, not eight and not nine. I am, of course, available if someone should decide that, but it is not me who has to do it, and it is not even the Commission that I am chairing to decide it anymore. I would therefore urge you, Mr President, to suspend the current sitting and to convene the Conference of Leaders to consider - and you too do so in this spirit - whether there is the willingness to continue the dialogue that we had entered into at that political table which had produced very good results, on the basis of which in a very short time, in my opinion, in fifteen days, we can arrive at a shared text and therefore allow this House to vote with a large majority on a better text without those critical issues raised by many and perhaps too many. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u6	President Ostellari, I take note of what you have said. I had called for today at 3 p.m. the Conference of Leaders, which I postponed precisely because I wanted to know the state of the art in the Justice Commission on the Zan Bill. In the light of what you have said, to understand what the political will of this House is, I suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u9	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, President Ostellari has now told his version, which is quite forced if not imaginative. Moreover, in these days, in these weeks and in these months a kind of idiosyncrasia has emerged on the part of you about the vote: it does not take into account the fact that this House has voted for the timetable in this House and today has prevented us from voting in the Commission, where the majority would have reiterated the will to discuss the measure in this House. This, Mr President, is an important measure, which serves to protect people, to guarantee them. [[Comments in the Chamber.]] You see, Mr President, that the mediation of Ostellari is not possible, because there is a part of this House that does not care about human and civil rights. [[Applause]] ! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone in this House can say what they want, please. You're welcome, Senator. MIRABELLI (PD). This is an important measure that concerns human rights and civil rights, nothing else; it serves to protect (just for this purpose) the weak people for their condition and their nature, who are often discriminated against and subjected to violence. It is therefore not appropriate, Mr President, for political games or strategies to be played on this. I feel obliged to tell the House what happened, but it is enough to have read the newspapers over the last eight months to know what happened in the Commission. We were prevented from arguing until March [[Applause]] In March we had to vote by majority on the calendarization of a bill approved by the House. We are told that that bill should not go on because it was divisive in the majority, then we tried to unite it, then 170 hearings were held - Ostellari is right - all the same. Mr President, it is clear then that we wanted to block and bring down the measure, as the President himself has shown, because his story and the positions he has expressed are biased, of those who are opposed to the Zan bill. What a mediator! [[Applause]] He explained to us that the provision is not good. Let us tell ourselves the truth; we are finally in this House, we look ourselves in the eye, we enter into the substance, we assume each one's responsibilities because we are faced with a measure that concerns the lives of people. [[Applause]] And the games, the tactics and the cunnings must be closed. That is enough, Mr President, it has been decided on a path, it is done in this House and it is done well. Unfortunately, the Commission did not even have the conditions to open the debate. [[Applause.]] [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u10	Colleagues, I would invite you to stay calm. There is already an incandescent climate. I give the floor to those who ask me to speak. Since there has been a rather long and detailed intervention, someone has opposed something else; I then decide what I want to do. We respect the order of demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u13	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we must restore the truth to this House because it is not possible... [[Applause. Protests.]] I am pleased, Mr President, that you yourself can realise that we cannot debate, that there is no dialogue, that there is no opportunity to speak. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u14	I was right to convene the Conference of Leaders...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u15	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). You cannot allow the President of the Commission to give his version, you must say what the state of the work is, he cannot make the history, among other things incorrect, of all those who have been working in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone told their own story. Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). We have been told in the Commission by the centre-right that we should not even be dealing with a measure which was voted on by the House. [[Applause]] We had to force and demand votes to be at this point. And now that we're at this point, do we have to go back? [[Protests]] You don't have to let that happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u16	There's no need to scream.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u17	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). You don't have to let that happen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We do not need to scream; there is no need to scream in this House to express our views. Everyone expresses them as he feels without giving rise to exasperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u20	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, you are right to ask not to be exasperated, but to exasperation brings the behaviour of a President of the Commission who has repeatedly trampled on the prerogatives of the Commission itself. [[Applause]] when it prevented us from the same calendarization of the measure under discussion. [[Protests]] I can't speak for whistling and screaming in this House. I can't talk, 'cause all I can do on the right is whistle and howl. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u21	Please let everyone express their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u22	MAIORIN (M5S). These are the people who want to defend rights! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maiorino, speak to the Presidency and not to the Assembly! MAIORIN (M5S). I'm trying to talk to you, President. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u23	Please, I ask you to calm down. I'll make the final decision. Relax.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u24	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, beyond the ballet of numbers - four months, eight months, one year, no matter - there is a Commission of Justice which has been trampled underfoot in its prerogatives. [[Applause]] The President has even prevented us from voting on the timetable. We have now voted very hard. The House has spoken in order to bring the measure here and, therefore, please respect the vote and allow the general debate on the Zan draft law to begin. [[Applause]] I would add that mediation would be possible if those who want to mediate were really interested in protecting the rights of the people in question, but that is not the case. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u25	Please, we can't locate the whistle underneath the masks. We have already won the Europeans. I don't want a stadium climate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u26	[[Applause]] MAIORIN (M5S). The major members of the League Party have always publicly denied that the homotransphobia problem exists, so their interest in the issue today is absolutely unbelievable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u29	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group is very serene. It did not participate in this very nervous part of the work of this House. You took note of your courtesy to the PD colleague who asked to speak when you had already suspended the sitting. He understood that on this issue more than meeting the needs of the citizens - which the Senate will decide when the debate will take place - I think there is... [[Brusio]] Don't worry, we didn't interrupt anyone. [[Protests]] The Brothers of Italy Group did not at all participate in the first nervous phase of discussion. We have understood - and this is our assessment - that these are ideological flags. The President of the Commission - he is accused by the members of the Commission themselves of not knowing what misdeeds - complains - and this is a historical fact - that the examination of the merits has been suspended by a vote of the Senate to bring to the Chamber a measure that was still being examined by the Commission. So, if anything, it should complain to those who have not been able to carry out the debate in the Commission to the full - in some people's opinion too slowly. At this moment, however, we are only discussing whether or not to convene a Conference of Leaders to verify the legitimate request of a President of the Commission...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u30	That's my call, President La Russa. We've already decided.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u31	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). And you staged a series of disputes. I am surprised by President Grasso, who was screaming so much that we did not understand a single word. [[Protests]] I didn't understand a word. I may be deaf, but no one has understood a single word. I asked for information and no one understood. That's right. Then I think we need common sense: the meeting of the Leaders is the same one that decided to bring the vote on the timetable to the House. It is a very important measure - I agree - in which some people are talking about fragility and others about the right of opinion. [[Applause]] , the possibility of expressing one's own ideas: this is a fact. For some there is the mask with the tricolor and for others only the one with the colors of the rainbow [[Applause]] , like you of the 5 Stars: this is the truth. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to confirm your decision, which is indifferent to us, because - I remember - we accepted the assessment and submitted a preliminary question of unconstitutionality that we are ready to debate today. But meeting in the Conference of Leaders, if the President of the 2nd Commission so requests, is an act, as well as a fair one, of institutional courtesy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u32	Colleagues, before giving the floor to Senator Calderoli, I would like to point out that I had already specified - and the Leaders also knew it, because we have a common chat of the Leaders group - that I would postpone the Conference of the Leaders - this regardless of the request of Senator Ostellari - that had been fixed at 15 o'clock today, just to understand the state of the art of the Zan bill. But since the Justice Commission was convened at the same time, I said that I would postpone it. So today's controversy is absolutely pretentious, because my will had already been announced in the common chat of the Leaders. I say this for the sake of clarity: my decision has already been made. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u35	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am self-censored because I believe that all the speeches on the order of business were not and should not have been, because you have arranged for the meeting to be convened and for the sitting to be suspended and, therefore, tamquam is not with respect to what has happened. [[Applause]] Mr President, I agree with President Ostellari and thank you for accepting that invitation to convene a group leader. Perhaps, inside a room where there are no cameras and we do not record what we say, we can really experience an attempt to find a mediation. It won't be obvious, maybe there won't be any flags. But, if anyone wants to achieve a serious and concrete result on the subject, that is the very seat of politics where we can find a solution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u38	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, we too would like to thank you for the willingness, despite the suspension of the work of this House, to be able to speak with your colleagues, in a somewhat informal but important way, to clarify a few points before we meet with our group leaders. It is absolutely true, Madam President, that you had already pointed this out to us: you had anticipated that we would meet and I must say that President Ostellari's request... [[Brusio.]] I apologise, ladies and gentlemen: I ask you only a few seconds of your time, aware that we are formally suspended, only to clarify, on behalf of the Group I represent, certain points which I believe are useful for the continuation of the debate in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and also in this House. I agree with President Ostellari's request, because again last week, on behalf of the parliamentary group I represent, we made exactly the following proposal: we asked that we start from last week on a mediation on a text only partially shared, but as a good starting point. [[Comments]] Mr De Petris, I apologize if I address you directly, but everyone has spoken: those who call themselves democrats must act accordingly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u39	A little courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u40	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). We have made exactly this proposal, aware that those who accuse us of wasting time are actually losing it as we would never do. [[Applause]] In fact, as early as last week we could have started working on this text and we would already have a week of advantage over that mediation that goes not in our interest, but in the interests of those people, the recipients of the norm, whom you say you want to protect. Colleagues, before we meet in the group leaders, I would like to say two things: firstly, no one in this House has the right to give licences for the protection of fundamental rights more or less good, more or less effective, more or less lawful, to anyone. [[Applause]] If we want to be precise - and I apologise - certainly not that part that last legislature did not vote for civil unions, unlike those who speak. [[Applause]] So, please, no one is allowed to make considerations, to give licenses or to carry out blood tests that are absolutely out of context at this stage. We're not in. [[Applause]] Secondly, if we really want to mediate - and we want to do so, because we do not believe that this debate should be confined to the good portion of the world that you represent and the bad portion of the world that we represent - because we want to give the standard an aspect that is more compatible with its effectiveness, we ask once again for the rule to be discussed in this House and not only in an apparent, formal and without modifications, maintained in a text that we consider not only useless, but dangerous for its recipients, precisely for the freedom of expression that has been spoken of so many times in this House and that sometimes so little is respected. There is no single truth, ladies and gentlemen: we have said it and we repeat it. There isn't a single reason, yours. There are the freedoms, rights and opinions of those who think differently from you. And this element of fundamental democracy must also emerge from this rule which we consider to be very important as an act of legal civilization. To President Grasso I say that we really couldn't hear it, but it was an acoustic element, not a political one. Unfortunately, we have not been able to listen to your speech and we regret it, but also because it is very atypical that this should take place not at a general stage of discussion, but at a stage when the sitting should have been suspended. It is clear that, if he speaks the part that claims the right to be the best and the only custodian of the truth, we too must say our own and explain why, to the very end, in order to defend the rights of the recipients of this rule that we care about, we will continue to fight for a true mediation, which is not obstructionism, but true protection of rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u43	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are working on a bill against hatred, against the crime of hatred, and we are working here in a climate of hatred. [[Applause]] How do we want to educate people with a Day against Discrimination and Hate if we are unable to resolve this issue and talk to each other civilly to get a solution? This has always been the case: in the great reforms, whether divorce, abortion or civil unions, there were always a more progressive part of the population and another more conservative one. Although I clearly belong to the progressives and would vote in favour of the Zan bill without any problems, I note that this is not the case for everyone. I really wonder, then, if we want to continue in this way, with everything we have to do, from civil procedure to the decrees that expire. I wonder if we really want to continue in this climate or take a little step back and maybe give up a word, even if in my opinion it would not be necessary; since it is so contested, one can give up a word, but not the concept. Can we look for other words for this concept, so as to find the solution? I appeal to everyone to make an effort to reach an agreement without continuing with a war that only harms the people we want to protect. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u46	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I fully agree with the words of Senator Unterberger, who has expressed exactly what is thought of me and of the Italian Viva Group: today we should discuss homotransphobic discrimination and how to tighten the penalties for those who make themselves responsible for these discriminations and instead we are discussing anything else. Sounds like a wrestling match for fake-banged cameras. [[Applause]] I believe that instead we have the duty - as you asked us, President, at the Conference of the Leaders - to check whether there is a positive path to be taken together to equip the country with a law that protects people who suffer only because they want to freely express their love. This is the theme. For the rest, political forces that think they can benefit from such a debate obviously have at heart not the interests of the Italians, but the interests of partisans. The Italia Viva Group, President, will propose its solutions at the Conference of the Leaders, where you called us, and which we believe should be held as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u47	I suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 5.23 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u48	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until Wednesday 21 July. The continuation of today's sitting provides for the discussion of incidental issues presented on the draft law on the fight against discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability, until 8 p.m. The examination of the measure will continue tomorrow, from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Thursday 15 July, from 9.30 a.m. The Thursday sitting will conclude with the question time, which includes the presence of the Ministers for Education, Tourism and for the South and territorial cohesion. Amendments to draft law No 2005 should be tabled no later than 12 noon on Tuesday 20 July. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting also includes, at 4.30 p.m., the call for the secret ballot by means of ballots for the election of two members of the RAI board of directors. The ballot boxes will remain open until 7.30 p.m. On Tuesday 20 July next week, from 4.30 p.m. until 8 p.m., the general discussion of draft law 2005 will be followed. On Wednesday 21 there will be a discussion of the decree-law business, work, youth and health, currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies. According to the latest provisions adopted by the Quaestors, the House's sanitisation will take place after four hours and thirty minutes of sitting, with a minimum duration of seventy minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u49	I declare that a number of questions have been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Pillon to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the draft law on combating discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability against which not only have dangerous homophobic or dangerous aggressors raised their voices, but on which many moderate technical problems have also been raised. For example, Article 1 of the Zan bill violates Article 3 of the Constitution and I do not say that, but he said it, during the hearings, a distinguished lawyer like Giovanni Maria Flick, President emeritus of the Constitutional Court. Our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, speaks of the protection of the person according to the sex that is an objective condition. Instead, in the Zan bill we find it written that next to sex - which in the meantime is no longer the biological sex as we all are accustomed to feel, but automatically it can be biological or historical, and already here it comes to wonder which of the two prevails - are given other characteristics of the person who are gender, sexual orientation and gender identity. These definitions are not legal, they do not have a legally recognizable quality, they are definitions given on the basis of philosophical or anthropological theories that have nothing real or objective. Among other things, these definitions may also be self-perceived as expressly stated in the Zan bill in Article 1, where it is stated that: : "gender identity" means self-identification perceived and manifested in relation to gender, even if not corresponding to gender, regardless of having concluded a transition path." This rule, in fact, will allow anyone to perceive himself on the basis of the convenience of the moment, evidently violating any criterion of objectivity in his own definition. This is not the only problem of constitutionality of this rule. There are many more. Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees all citizens freedom of thought, freedom of speech and freedom of expression. Well, Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the Zan bill make explicit reference to the amendment of articles of the penal code introduced by the Mancino-Reale law. Too bad, dear colleagues, that the Royal-Left Law refers to characteristics of the person objectively recognized as, for example, race, religion or ethnicity. They cannot be referred to a severely punitive law such as the Mancino-Real Law characteristics which, as said, are of substantial self-perception of the person. [[Brusio]] But I, Mr President, allow me to ask, if possible, that in the face of such an important subject, so debated and for which the country has split in half [[Applause]] , the House has the kindness to listen, that colleagues have the kindness to listen, since, moreover, the debate in the Commission has been brutally stopped. So let us at least listen to each other, if possible, at least now that we can talk. [[Recalls of the President]] Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees freedom of speech, expression and thought. Very well: I try to ask colleagues who support this bill whether it will still be possible to speak, for example, of opposition to marriage between people of the same sex, whether it will still be possible to speak out publicly against adoption by same sex couples, or whether it will still be possible to declare opposed to surrogate motherhood, aka utero for rent, or if all this will be read as an incitement to discrimination, because the case of incitement to discrimination is so smoky, so difficult to define in a strict way that everything can be considered incitement to discrimination, also because, as we have heard in the debate of these days, someone is already saying that the reproductive rights are inalienable rights of the person. Consequently, being opposed to adoption by same-sex couples or being opposed to surrogacy will obviously become an incitement to discrimination; it would be as if someone came to tell me that I do not have to reproduce myself: it would be incitement to discrimination. Too bad that in this case the attention of the legislator must not be towards the rights of the same sex couple, who obviously has every right to be together, but must give priority to the rights of the child [[Applause]] , who has the right to mom and dad, and is entitled not to be purchased on the Internet. Again. Some criticisms, in my opinion sensible and absolutely acceptable, have come from illustrious constitutionalists also with regard to Article 4 of this draft law: in the first part the constitutional dictation is repeated and it is said that they are without prejudice to the free expression of convictions or opinions, but in the second part we go to limit the constitutional dictation saying that those opinions cannot be suitable to determine the concrete danger of discriminatory acts. And in this case - Senator Pillon does not say that, as you well know, it is painted by all newspapers as a dangerous homophobe, but a jurist such as the President emeritus of the Mirabelli Council says - it is an unacceptable limitation of the constitutional dictation. In addition, Articles 2 and 3 of the Zan bill also go against the constitutional dictation of Article 25 of the Constitution, which establishes the taxableness of the criminal law. Let me add a comment to what you will find written in our question of constitutionality: are we sure that using the criminal instrument in this case is the right way too? You see, we may have made a bad habit, which is to always and only use the criminal instrument as if it were the best way to educate the people. [[Applause]] I do not believe that this is the right way: criminal law should be a residual instrument; criminal law should be few and should protect fundamental rights, while for the rest there are many other ways, such as education and administrative sanctions. There's a lot of roads. Article 7 of the Zan bill clearly goes against Articles 30 and 33 of the Constitution. There are words, such as those we have heard from the presenter of the Zan bill, which I read: there are children who perceive their gender, since they are children, different from their sex; here then we must help the children in their transition path. These are words that scare us very much, that we would not want to have heard and that lead us to think that Article 7 of the Zan bill violates Articles 30 and 33 of the Constitution. These are the concerns that the Holy See, other Christian confessions, associations of lawyers, associations of lesbian militants and associations of feminist militants have sent to our Commission; concerns that we would have liked to be able to listen and evaluate in order to arrive at a text that was acceptable; concerns that you did not want to listen and that lead us to say that this bill must be stopped because this is not the case. There are - said President Draghi - preventive controls in parliamentary committees that guarantee the risk of violation of the Treaties. Well, let's activate those preventive checks, because they haven't been activated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u51	He asked Senator Balboni to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u52	Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group has presented the question of the preliminary question QP2, because we are really concerned about some passages of this draft law which, in our opinion, clearly violate some fundamental articles of the Constitution. In particular, Article 21 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right of thought and expression of one's opinions, is, in our opinion, endangered by Article 2 of the bill, which does not punish - be careful - violence and incitement to violence against a person only because of his sexual orientation, but also punishes incitement to discrimination, without in any way explaining in this bill what exactly it is. If we read Article 2 together with Article 1 of the bill we understand the absolute indeterminateness of this rule, because Article 1 defines gender orientation as a self-perception and self-declaration absolutely subjective and unbound from any biological or objective parameter. Then you understand well, colleagues, that the combined arrangement of these two norms involves a criminal norm in white, which can be discreetly filled by any magistrate depending on his orientation, his convictions, his moral, religious, ethical, political or philosophical positions. That is, we are packing a standard to gag anyone who thinks differently from the magistrate who will judge on that case from time to time. [[Applause]] This is the real risk that we are putting into practice today if we are to adopt this rule. Brothers of Italy - I repeat - is ready to vote even today on a rule that increases, even severely, sanctions against those who commit violence or instigate violence, but is not at all willing to vote on a rule that will inevitably create a crime of opinion, violating Article 21 of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, you are also aware of this, who are supporters of this bill, because otherwise you would not have felt the need to write Article 4, which merely spells out - in a more confusing way, moreover - what Article 21 of the Constitution lays down. What is the need to recall Article 21 of the Constitution within Article 4 of the bill, since even children know that the Constitution always prevails over every law, being a source of over-ordered law? What would be the need to insert Article 21 of the Constitution into Article 4 of the bill, if the same supporters of this provision did not realize the risk that this rule involves in repressing legitimate opinions in order of natural family, in order of the right of a child to have a father and a mother, in order of gestation for others or wombs rented that they say they want, in order that the State must support only the natural family? Still remaining the right of anyone to do what he believes in his private life, the social function of the family founded by a man and a woman to maintain, educate, educate and raise a child is something else. [[Applause]] And we want to have the right to continue to assert these beliefs without anyone putting us on trial. What does Article 4 say? Article 21 of the Constitution is fine, but provided that the opinions expressed do not involve the risk and danger of discrimination or violence. But who determines whether or not this risk exists, this danger? Of course, only a magistrate can establish that, Mr President. This means that any one of us says, for example, that a child has a right to have a mother and a father could be denounced tomorrow by an association of homosexuals, gay people or anything else that feels discriminated against by this statement and the magistrate will have to refer him to trial and judge him. What will you have to judge, ladies and gentlemen? Will he have to judge a fact, on the basis of the principle of taxableness of Article 25, second paragraph of our Constitution, or will he have to judge an opinion, a conviction, or even a state of mind, if that is what he did for an ethical, moral, political, religious or philosophical conviction or if he did it animated by reasons of hatred? This will have to judge the magistrate. You are creating a standard to judge the defendant's inner state of mind. In the legal systems known throughout the world this institute is called the criminal law of the inner state of mind and has been applied in only two systems, dear colleagues: in the national socialist legal order and in the legal order of Soviet Russia, which has obviously inspired all other communist regimes in the world. Only in these two legal systems is it not considered a fact, but it is considered a state of mind. We will have to go and justify before a judge our state of mind. This is what you are introducing with this bill. Of course, we hope and trust to find a reasonable judge, a judge who may not put his beliefs before common sense - because here it is then common sense - but in the meantime there will be a trial, the media pillage, the attorney's fees and the anxiety of which is under completely unfair trial. The result of all this will be what, in reality, wants to target the majority: self-censorship. When the Italians know that talking about certain topics involves the risk of a criminal trial they will self-censor themselves, they no longer venture on a mine ground and therefore the political correctness will triumph, censoring and closing their mouths to what I still believe is the majority of Italians, that in the matter of family, in the matter of sonship, in the matter of children's rights thinks exactly like us, but the political correctness will close their mouths, as has also certified a recent survey in the United States, where two Republican voters out of three have declared not to speak more of these topics in public for fear of the reaction that will inevitably be manifested to them. With the result that we will have a minority dictatorship on the majority. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this is what you're preparing with this... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u53	Senator Balboni, since you are also a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions, you have another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u54	Mr President, I shall finish quickly. Of course, these are not only the issues that concern us very much; there are also others and, in particular, Article 7, which risks opening the doors of schools of every order and grade to gender propaganda; it risks putting our children - to whom we do not teach sex education because by this law we want to teach them gender education - in the hands of associations that are probably not the most qualified towards the family to deal with these problems. Mr President, these are the reasons why we invite those who really care about freedom of thought to vote in favour of this reference. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u55	Before introducing the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, on which a group representative may speak, I would like to say that the request has been made to vote and to close the debate on the question for a preliminary ruling this evening to examine tomorrow morning the question of suspension. Senator Balboni, that's why I asked you if you wanted to speak up. So you're quitting? Balboni (FdI). Yeah, I quit.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u58	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Italy Viva will vote against the question of the preliminary ruling. I'm gonna be okay. There are, however, moments in the life of democratic institutions in which we must remember who we are. We are not the influencers who wear likes; we are not the people who think politics sucks - I say this by looking at my former colleagues in the Democratic Party - and we are not even those - and here I add a "unfortunately" - who think that in Italy there is monocameralism. On the idea of having to overcome the bicameralism equal I finished a career. So, as long as there are two rooms, we're arguing here because, if you don't, you're right about anti-politics. Let us be clear to the end by looking into our eyes and remembering the way we looked at the voters. We have promised and sworn on the Constitution to serve this country with discipline and honor. In light of this, at certain moments in our lives we have made choices that have been compromises with respect to our ideas as well. I am a senator like you; in the last parliamentary term I was not a senator. As President of the Council of Ministers, the 27th of Republican history, I asked the question of trust so that we could get to the approval of the law on civil unions, which I, Catholic, signed, when at the Circus Maximus someone put banners with a biblical anathema of the type: Renzi, we'll remember. [[Applause]] On that act I do not take lessons from those who, until the night before, told us that he would support the provision and that then, suddenly, for some phone call of some high prelate, he changed position. [[Applause]] I do not take lessons from those who then changed opposition, because history is not erased, I want to emphasize it. [[Comments]] That story is well known - I am surprised that the 5 Stars are now debating - and it is in the annals of Italian political history. Then I took responsibility; I lost votes, but I didn't lose the taste of looking in the mirror. Now, we are at a delicate point; before reasoning about the provision - we are in the preliminary phase - I say this: for eight years a law has been in question that affects homotransphobia offences, and this law was passed by the Chamber of Deputies in 2013 (first signatory Ivan Scalfarotto); that law to the Senate has not found the votes. Today we are in 2021: how many homosexuals, transsexuals, people with disabilities - I mean, because thanks to Lisa Noja and the work of the Chamber there is also the prediction about disability - how many in these eight years have not had that protection because they lacked the votes? I'm telling you, many and many. Today we are in the same condition; we are one step, one inch. Here I don't think of my ideas; I think of something else: political reasoning. Do you perhaps make this House a place where the ultras compare and do not bring home the result? I want to point out that we do not take the result home because we all know that the transition to secret ballots is difficult. However, that passage by secret ballot must be respected because we wanted it in Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, without calling it into question in the amendment adopted in the last legislature. So either it is a secret ballot - and it is a risk for everyone - or it is a political responsibility to reach an agreement. The agreement is not simply about the substance, which is at hand, because we must not fool ourselves: the agreement is at hand, it is one step away from the finish line. The point is not just the substantive agreement; it is also a method agreement. All parliamentary forces should be asked not only to meet each other, but to make a political pact so that this law, if amended by the Senate, can be passed within two weeks. Colleagues, I am in a phase of my life where I no longer have problems of seeking popularity, and you can see it; I am in a phase of my life when I am not afraid to say things without hypocrisy. I care about those kids. [[Applause]] Those people, women and men, who risk not being protected, are in our hands today. If you want to plant an ideological flag because someone asked you to, say it, but it's another story than ours. If you want to blockage, say so, but don't tease us by wasting our time. If we want to find a point of synthesis, I call you back and I call, Mr President, to the high responsibility that we have, that is to come here to make the citizens' interest, not an ideological confrontation. [[Applause]] For this reason, mine is an appeal, and it is a very simple appeal [[Comments]] : an agreement should be reached on the points relating to Articles 1, 4 and 7, and after the agreement has been reached on Articles 1, 4 and 7, all political forces should be asked to bring the debate to the House within fifteen days. If we do this, we'll have shown that politics doesn't suck. If you go to the fight, to the wall against the wall, and you lose by secret ballot, you'll have destroyed those kids' lives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u61	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, did not raise any questions for a preliminary ruling, because we believed, because we were also told several times - I would like to say - by the former majority of the previous Government that there was a willingness to dialogue: they said so in public and they said so here in Parliament's classrooms. We have therefore decided not to present the question for a preliminary ruling, which is not to discuss an issue in order to leave room for dialogue, which must be done in the course of the debate. We would have liked this space to be in the Commission. President Renzi has now rightly reminded us that there is bicameralism, so asking the Senate - and tomorrow on another occasion could be the House - to give up any intervention, to give up doing its duty, after many of the majority in this House have also said that there were problems, that there were things to correct, it is really unacceptable. We must do our duty; we must approve of what we think is right and not approve of what we think is wrong, as well as changing what we think is modifiable. However, the debate and the issues have evolved in a way that we do not really approve of in any way. If there is bicameralism, bicameralism also includes Commissions. The Constitution says that every measure must be discussed in both chambers in the Commissions and in the Plenary Assembly. We have not even been able to reach the amendments in the Commission; we have had numerous hearings, but not the 170 of which we have been told and which the centre-right had proposed to reduce to 70. I would remind you that 110 hearings have been held in the course of this parliamentary term on a measure, precisely in the Committee on Justice, which was carried out at the request of the left side of this House, and no one has protested, not even the proposers of that draft law. Nobody said anything about a violation, a waste of time. Among other things, I would like to point out in passing - which Senator Caliendo has indicated to me very well, which is systematic and goes to look for things, not content with empty words - about draft laws that remain behind, which is the Commission's attention to justice a measure approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 18 October 2018, signed by Orlando and Franceschini, so not just the last arrivals, but among the highest leaders and representatives of the Democratic Party. Well, this provision has remained there. So do not use these scandals, these procedural problems out of place. You want this measure for reasons that I really cannot understand; you want it unchanged and immutable, as if it were a sacred text, even in the face of proposals of great openness. President Ostellari's proposal, for example, was to remove the words 'gender identity'. No, gender identity is untouchable: without this reference 400,000 people would be excluded. But why did Mr Zan himself sign a bill by Mr Scalfarotto which does not include gender identity? [[Applause]] So Alessandro Zan is also a homophobe, a transphobic? I would say that the camp is widening a bit and then we will have to make a plan for extremely large prisons; if all homophobes and transphobes, including Mr Zan, will have to go inside, I would say that perhaps we will have to equip the small areas of the country for those who are outside the prisons. The measure was torn from the Commission, where it is not true that the hearings were all the same. Certainly there have been hearings that almost all went in the sense of modifying the text; on the other hand there are requests from such broad sectors of our society that have necessarily been represented in the Senate and in the hearings: requests that, as has been said, go from the Vatican Secretariat of State to Arcilesbica and I would say that the view is really already very wide. Having said that, you come to this House because you told us: let us not negotiate; let us first set the date and then treat it. That is what has been said, yet the date was set a week ago, but zero negotiations. You want the text as it is, with all the mistakes that some of you, present here, have recognized. Faced with this, we clearly say that people who are subjected to violence, harassment and real discrimination must be protected. We presented a draft law at the first signature of Senator Ronzulli and according to Senator Salvini's signature and we also made a number of further proposals, but they were all rejected. Faced with this, I think that if a law is necessary, it will be possible to do it in another political phase, because there is not the slightest willingness and it goes down, despite important sectors of the center-left: in fact, we have just heard Senator Renzi, but then, unfortunately, he will vote neither for the preliminary ruling nor for the suspensive one. So we do not know when it will be possible to express the negotiating space that it asks: it risks being only a flatus voices, which however cannot be expressed. [[Applause]] Therefore, we who want a positive and balanced solution, in the face of this way of taking this issue forward, are very disappointed and we see that it is not possible to do a positive job. We are also in a condition for which there is a fierceness on every single initiative carried out by the center-right. President Ostellari was even attacked, who probably did not do everything that some groups asked for in this House and in the Commission, but whose role as President of the Commission should be respected. I would like to know which Rule of the Rules of Procedure would have broken President Ostellari: no one! It has not been said, but general accusations have been made of beating the can for the threshing floor, because perhaps it would have been partial. However, we know very well that all the Presidents of the Commission belong and are an expression of political forces. Colleagues, perhaps the problem for you is that you think differently: that then you do the President in an unmistakable way, for you it is not a problem. Clearly, such an attitude is an intolerant attitude. Even Senator Unterberger, who is a strong supporter of the instances behind the measure in question, stressed the attitude of animosity, to say the least, in the examination of a measure that should promote tolerance and acceptance of the different. The difference is not only the homosexual or the transsexual, but also the one who thinks differently [[Applause]] , which has a right not to be insulted, even if it holds different positions. The rights of families must be respected, family associations must be heard and all those who are the expression of our society and not only certain associations of a certain type, carefully chosen. It's not just LGBT associations, because among them there's also Arcilesbica, but it was cassata, it wasn't heard, it wasn't heard and it didn't listen at all to what he asked. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, albeit reluctantly - although it was not our preference, so much so that we have not tabled one - for everything that has been carried out in these hours and in the previous week. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u64	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have heard - and I will therefore not repeat myself - absolutely precise and precise speeches, with references to constitutional articles, Italian and international norms and freedoms. I would therefore like to speak to my fellow senators and senators, for two minutes - not for twenty minutes - asking them to overcome ideological fences and look us in the face. I do not think that there is only one senator in this House, beyond the parties, who discriminates against sex. And if anyone discriminates against a human being on the basis of sex and his choice of life, he's an idiot who doesn't deserve to be inside this House. [[Applause]] We, as League, have in office tonight, in mid-July, parliamentarians, mayors and homosexual governors; and we will have others. When I, as secretary of the League, sign the lists, I don't ask, "Are you homosexual?" Are you heterosexual? How do you feel? I try to find smart women and men, without ghettoizing anyone, without labeling anyone. [[Applause]] And really, when I read the testimonies of boys and girls who come out after years of suffering and fear... [[Comments]] Those who ask for respect must also respect, at least for five minutes. [[Applause]] I was saying that I, like you, thank the promoters of this law and hope that the final section of this path will see us together, because it would be a beautiful signal. Tonight there are girls and boys who are afraid to tell the world how they live their love is dramatic. I have players who have won the European Final Sunday night give a damn about nothing about sexual tastes, and I'm not going to ask Donnarumma, Chiellini or Bonucci. And it is dramatic that in some areas of our work and life, in the evolved and modern Italy of 2021, there is someone, man or woman, who is afraid to declare himself gay or lesbian because some asshole is ready to discriminate, to accuse, to point, to point, to attack. No way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u65	Senator Salvini, I would ask you not to use certain terminologies, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u66	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Forgive me. I'll try to avoid it. So, if the common goal is to protect the right to love (which is sacred) and the right to freedom with capital L, let's put aside the flag, ideology and blindness for a moment. There are many realities, not only Catholics and Christians - we have heard it - but also gay, lesbian, feminists and religious confessions that say to keep this system good and to increase the penalties for those who offend. If there are two guys who kiss or two girls who love each other and take hands tonight on the streets of Rome, nobody can and must afford to ironize, offend and less than attack those guys and those girls. [[Applause]] Do we want to increase the penalties for these people? Yeah, absolutely. I have two children: how my two children will grow up and who will love my two children is their business. As far as possible, I was concerned as a separate and divorced parent to give them the foundations of respect and good education. The work they will do and the woman or man they will love will be their business. And they shall be my children, and their companions and their companions shall be in my house as in their house. [[Applause]] If we agree on that, Let's stop. Let's take it rather with those countries in the world - and unfortunately there are still too many - that for homosexuality provide the death penalty, life imprisonment or prison. Let us discuss trade agreements with those countries. [[Applause]] I don't want to do business with Iran, where homosexuality is punished with the death penalty. No, I refuse. [[Applause]] Of the ten articles - of this bill - I am convinced that many of the intellectuals, singers, directors, opinionists and influencers who defend the bill Zan have not read a single article [[Applause]] We take the most important part, for which I thank Mr Zan. Let us remove what divides not only this House, but the whole country. We take away the children and remove the education entrusted to the primary schools: we leave to Mom and Dad the right and the duty to educate their children, not to the State. [[Applause]] They will decide, when they grow up, what to do, how to love and who to love. We take the kids out, we take out elementary school, and we take off a felony. By the way, if anyone in this House feels above the law, because it will never happen to him - but I do not want to bring bad luck - I say that we must adopt objective laws. The less room for interpretation we leave to judges and courts, the better. A felony must be clear. [[Applause]] You cannot invent crimes for which in Turin it is a crime to be against the uterus for rent and homosexual adoptions, while in Novara the pastor, during the sermon, can declare himself in favor. We remove from the field what divides and risks - this is my concern - to bring down the Zan bill. Those who write on the hand "Yes to the Zan bill, if they do not listen to others, will achieve the only goal of deleting the Zan bill from their hand. [[Applause]] Do we agree and approve the deepest sense of this law? We punish the haters, the discriminatory, the violent, as it is written in the mediation, for which I thank my colleague, President Ostellari, who has done an incredible job. We severely punish anyone who discriminates against sex, gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, and other conditions. I want, after Covid-19, Italy to be a beautiful, free and tolerant country. Respect calls respect. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I ask you to remove from the bench, once and for all, what divides. In a month, both the Senate and the House must approve a rule of civilization that severely punishes those who offend, assault or discriminate against another human being, because in this country no one is superior to anyone else. Let us, then, vote on this law. If, instead, someone, in order to keep their party united, who is likely to divide into 18 currents, does not want gay, lesbian and trans, to say so aloud in this House. The League and the center-right want to solve the problems. Let us close the matter here and together approve the law that this country deserves. Thank you and I look forward to a positive response. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u67	I never interrupt anyone's applause, nor yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u70	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I have heard many phrases in the speeches and also the appeal that Senator Salvini has made now. One question, however, runs my course. But why did you not appeal to respect for rights and freedoms, Senator Salvini, to your allies in Poland and Hungary in Orban, with whom you signed a sovereignist document, since you called the states where homosexuals are discriminated against and arrested? [[Applause]] That's the point! When one intervenes by appealing to mediation, precisely in the name of the possibility of reaching an agreement in order to ensure that those who discriminate can be punished, first of all it is necessary not only to be consistent - but consistency, we know, is not of this world - but also to know what is said and what is written. Senator Salvini, and perhaps I should also address Senator Renzi, have you read the proposal for a preliminary question QP1, at the first signature of Senator Pillon? Its first part makes statements clearly with respect to all the pantomime about finding an agreement and getting out of it all together united and stronger than before, having increased the rights. I am used to reading things and we are discussing the question of constitutionality. The first thing that is called into question is the Mancino law. [[Applause),]] because it is said that it appears absolutely - this reading - decontextualized extend this prediction to sexual orientation and gender identity, adding them to the list of discrimination already provided for by the law of Mancino. In reality, therefore, the very cornerstones of the Zan bill are even questioned, precisely the fundamental question, and the need to intervene on the Mancino law so that all measures to prevent and combat discrimination can be implemented. Therefore, the provisions of that sacrosanct law which provides that discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds should be punished should rightly be imposed - because this is the purpose of the bill - strengthening - the sense of the Mancino law must be strengthened - against all discriminatory acts based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity. I repeat that gender identity is clearly indicated in two judgments of the Constitutional Court. Here, on the other hand, we make films on the philosophical and anthropological interpretation of gender identity, when instead we are faced with a simple fact: we want a law that increases rights, which therefore includes the specific crime of discrimination by sexual orientation, by gender identity. It's a very simple thing that doesn't hurt anyone. That's the point. [[Applause]] When the rights are extended, the others are not taken away, but are extended. This is the battle of civilization and this is the true philosophical approach, since you talk about it. All this is precisely by virtue of the observance of Article 3 of the Constitution, which is inopportunely cited to raise the question of constitutionality: the draft law has its foundation precisely in Article 3 of our Constitution. Then we must not tolerate - to use a term that someone has continually used now - but assert rights. We must prevent discrimination from every point of view (criminal, legal, cultural) and consequently all acts that can produce violence, such as those we face every day. So here's the thing. With regard to the question before us, Senator Pillon for the truth never concealed the fact that he did not believe much in mediation, but you talk about mediation when the text on which we are discussing states exactly the opposite, because he wants to undermine the very foundations of the law. I'm also telling Senator Renzi something else. I voted for a government whose government I was proud to oppose to pass a law of civilization such as that on civil union, precisely because of that sense of responsibility, to make sure that the law itself was passed. [[Applause]] But now you can't tell stories, like those you've done, that don't exactly match. The 5 Stars, in fact - it's up to me to say because I was present - opposed a procedural choice, that of a premissive amendment [[Applause]] At the time, however, agreements and mediations were not to be made. I'm always telling the truth, because that's what it is. Then today our sense of responsibility is not to pretend to do a mediation here and to change the law. Now you all believe that then in the House in a short time you do, when the articles on which all the criticisms were concentrated were the result of that agreement and also of the forces that today say to change it. [[Applause]] Dear Senator Balboni, Article 4, which specifically indicates compliance with Article 21 of the Constitution, is an amendment by Forza Italia [[Applause]] which, even in this case, has always been included in order to find the agreement. From this point of view, I think that it is up to us - and I reject this - and we will all be voting against the proposed preliminary questions, because we think instead that, precisely out of respect for our Constitution and its Article 3, we must proceed to examine the draft law Zan, hoping that we will be able to approve it quickly. [[Applause]] Enlargement of rights adds much to our country and does not take anything away from anyone. As far as school is concerned, all we can do is mention in Article 7 what is already a state law and the educational pact with parents. There is no expropriation of family cooperation. It is already written and specified. So let us not use excuses: let us move forward because I believe that we can do a great job for the many people, men and women, who do not have any defence at the moment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u71	Pursuant to Rule 93, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senators Pillon and Romeo (QP1) and Senator Balboni and other Senators (QP2). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I will refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law n. 2005 to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-345.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 14 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
