ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2129. I would remind you that at its meeting on 16 June the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion and reply of the representative of the Government took place. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. As the time limit of 20 minutes has not elapsed since the beginning of the sitting and the amendments have not been put to the vote, I would ask the authors to explain them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u5	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 5.0.100, which incorporates the opinion of the 5th Commission, by including an article of financial invariance.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u8	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, since we have a few minutes and we also have a certain lack of initiative in this House, I would like to put an issue to the attention of the Government. I am referring to the dramatic issue of Nicaragua. These days the presidential campaign is underway and, at the initiative of President Ortega, some of the presidential candidates competing with him have already been arrested. I believe that we should, in the ways and forms that the Government considers useful, raise a vibrant protest and that Europe should take an initiative. Very worrying phenomena are now being repeated in the world. It is these hours that the repression in Burma is intensifying, the situation in Venezuela continues to be a kind of humanitarian emergency and Nicaragua is now dramatically adding to this list of world disasters. In expressing solidarity with the citizens of Nicaragua, with women, with men and with young people engaged in the protests, which have been severely repressed and imprisoned, I would like to say that Italy, for its noble traditions of attachment to the values of freedom and democracy, must take an initiative in the international forum so that Nicaragua does not go silent. Sometimes silence is complicity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u9	Thank you, Senator Casini. I'm glad I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u12	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, if I may say so, Gabriele Boscetto, former senator of the province of Imperia, of my region, was missing today. I would point out to the Presidency that I would like to remember this, perhaps even with a minute's silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bruzzone, I will transfer your dutyful request to the President of the Senate and in the meantime join in the mourning.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u13	Mr Pesco, do you wish to speak by expressing the opinion of the Budget Commission on the amendments to Article 4?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u14	Mr President, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, the Budget Committee gives an opinion on amendment 4,100 only and only if amended as sub-amendment 4,100/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u15	Therefore, provided that amendment 4,100/1 is adopted and complements the rapporteur's amendment, the opinion of the Budget Commission is of no objection, otherwise there is no objection from the Commission. The government could take advantage of the remaining five minutes to express an opinion on this matter as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u16	Mr President, I am actually speaking precisely because, assuming that the rapporteur's opinion is in favour... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u17	I ask colleagues to take their seats and follow the intervention of the government representative. I see, for once, that there is more movement to the left than the center-right benches, normally less ordered.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u18	SIBILIA, State Secretary for the Interior. Mr President, having received and obtained an opinion on the rapporteur's amendments by the President of the Budget Commission, given the rapporteur's opinion on his own amendment, I would say that the Government would need, since this is a joint measure which includes both the powers of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, a reasonable ten-minute suspension in order to reflect and acquire the subsequent amendments and sub-amendments on these amendments by the rapporteur. [[Senator De Vecchis points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u19	Senator De Vecchis, I'm gonna give you the floor at the resumé. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m. and resumed at 5.04 p.m.) The session is resumed. Senator De Vecchis has anticipated the subject of his speech, which I would ask you to transfer at the end of the sitting, since that is the place most suited to the matter that he would like to deal with. The mask is still mandatory inside. Let's hope it's not forever, at least for us vaccinated. Sooner or later the senators Quaestors will have to examine the possibility, if all are vaccinated, of different regulations (but that is another problem). The Government had requested a suspension to give its opinion; I hope it has made a decision. The representative of the Government is therefore entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u20	Mr President, a fruitful suspension, because we have a favourable opinion on the rapporteur's amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u21	Thank you. As you will have heard, President Pesco conditioned the opinion on amendment 4,100/1 to the Government's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u22	SIBILIA, State Secretary for the Interior. Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with what President Pesco said.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u23	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4 on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which - I recall - the opinion is in favour. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100/1, tabled by Senator Dell'Olio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4,100 (amendment text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We are now going to consider an amendment to add an additional article after Article 5, which has already been presented and on which - I remember - the opinion is in favour. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.0.100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u26	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, I rise to express a positive assessment of the Italian Viva Group on this draft law, which simplifies, as we have already had occasion to emphasize in the general debate and after the rapporteur's report, the electoral procedure. It is certainly not a bill that warms the hearts of Italians, but it is a measure that simplifies many aspects of the electoral process and aligns them with the availability of technology, which until now had not happened. Moreover, with regard to the content of Article 4 concerning the publication of the certificates of the judicial record, this measure removes the parties - which deserve respect because they are the architrave of democratic exercise - from a burden that the previous legislation made excessively burdensome. The measure in question essentially makes it possible to simplify certain passages, such as that relating to the deposit of the electoral symbol, which can also be presented in digital format and not only in paper format (as it has been up to now). In addition, authentication of signatures will also be possible through registered lawyers who have communicated such availability to their order; the names of lawyers will have to be published on the order's website, so they will be easily identifiable. As regards the request for registration certificates in the electoral lists for the subscription in support of lists of candidates, they may be requested via JEP. This did not happen before and determined for the representatives of the parties commitments at the secretariats of the Municipalities for the issue of the certificates necessary for the signing of the electoral lists by the subscribers: a series of heavy commitments that determined a crowding of the offices especially close to the presentation of the list. In this way, however, the procedure is simplified. Article 4 is very important, it has been discussed and there has been a willingness in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to amend it, or to introduce it, because it was not in the original wording of the text. Instead, it is an article which takes into account the importance of the publication of judicial record certificates. First such fulfillment was all on the part of the parties, who had to apply for certificates from the court and then publish them on their website. If this did not happen, it was the parties that were sanctioned, while today the procedure, with this bill, becomes very simple. Basically, the representatives of the parties ask the court for a certificate of the candidates' judicial record within the 20th day prior to the elections. The court must send it within 48 hours and, subsequently, the parties send it to the body where the elections are held, so that it is published. If the court does not send the certificate, the party is held not responsible for this failure to send and the request made to the court through the certified mail is authentic. These are, therefore, a number of elements that simplify the electoral process, make it easier to submit lists, avoid overcrowding of offices and take into account the importance of current technologies, such as certified e-mail, to streamline communications, avoiding crowding of offices, the objective difficulties that often lead to delays in the presentation of lists, appeals and everything that goes to clogging public offices and complicate the jurisdiction in the electoral field. We strongly supported this measure in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and we strongly supported the changes that have taken place. These make the scope for action more homogeneous and wider than the initial text, which only concerned the communication, via JEP, of list representatives. In addition to that rule, there are many others, as I have said, which make it possible to simplify the pre-election procedure. This is why Italy Viva-P.S.I. It will vote in favour of the adoption of this bill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u29	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this draft law, also because of the changes that have been introduced with the amendments that we have just voted on. Each electoral procedure must be based on the principle of efficiency and simplicity and, above all, on the principle of the preservation of acts which, in any case, achieve the purpose for which they are intended. Sometimes, the prevalence of form over substance leads to formalism which, as we know, is the enemy of democracy and not its ally. Simplicity is the amount with which we must work to make the electoral process as clear and efficient as possible. Of course, with these changes we are going in this direction, even if, in our opinion, we could have done even more. Unfortunately, however, some of our proposals in the Commission have been ignored and ignored by the majority in order to change. Yet our attitude remains constructive and proactive, despite the fact that this majority continues to be self-sufficient and, at times, continues to show that the opposition is almost an annoyance, as in the case of the many colleagues of the Democratic Party who turn their backs on me as I speak, showing great democratic sensitivity to the role.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u30	Senator Balboni, you're absolutely right. I did not speak because I did not want to disturb you by interrupting it, but I would ask my fellow Members to turn to the centre of the Chamber, if not to the Presidency. In the same way, colleagues from Forza Italia are also asked not to give back and to sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to express my regret. First of all, we voted throughout Europe, even during the pandemic, but not in Italy. In my view, this is a sign that does not go in the direction of guaranteeing popular sovereignty, as is written in Article 1 of the Constitution. The Constitution when it suits you, you forget it. Secondly, I regret that even today, although we are discussing changing the electoral procedure and some of its rules, we do not know the precise date of next autumn's administrative vote. We know that we will be voting in a window from 15 September to 15 October, but we do not yet know the precise date. This is very serious, Lords of the Government and of the majority, because there is little time and there is mid-August. Democracy has its own time: to compress them in this way is not a service to democracy, especially since the provincial elections are also postponed, pending the ballots, which will take place even further ahead. So there are important institutions, which respond to the needs of citizens on the ground, which are blocked and cannot be renewed, because of these uncertain times. While expressing a favourable vote on the measure under consideration, the Brothers of Italy Group therefore wants to emphasize these critical issues, aware that, if you do not listen to us, the Italians fortunately listen to us more and more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u32	Thank you, too, for your patience, Senator Balboni.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u35	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party's provision for our examination, on which we have a favourable attitude, for reasons of substance and method. Firstly, I would like to focus on the reasons for the method, which I consider to be very important. For some time now, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have inaugurated a way of working which has led us to include among the priorities of our legislative commitment the removal of some parts, which are not reasonable, of the legislation relating to the electoral process and to do so in the sign of simplification and fairness, seeking, through an important work of the restricted committees, points of understanding between different political forces. In this climate, we have been able to achieve significant results - that of today is one, but it is not the only one - and I believe that this must be stressed and should be considered an example to be followed, also in order to bring home other results, in the common interest. It is clear that the simplification of the electoral procedure concerns everyone and that important choices are made in this measure, for example with regard to the possibility of filing the marks in electronic format and the simplification of the filing of the names of the list representatives. In general, the relationship between public administration and political forces expressing candidatures becomes more fluid in the stages leading up to the filing of lists, which are usually very agitated. An important part of the measure is also dedicated to giving a simpler organization to the acquisition of the certificates of the judicial record, introducing the possibility for the parties to ask for it for their candidates and placing in charge the court the obligation to give these certificates within a number of days. Things become, at the same time, simpler and more correct and I think this is an extremely significant element. In the same way, I believe that it is important to request and acquire electoral certificates in electronic format, through certified e-mail (PEC). In what way, then, are these legislative interventions, which have received the unanimous support of our Commission and which, as such, have arrived in this House? They are part of a context that, in recent times, has seen us committed to making other important adjustments to electoral discipline. I mention only that concerning the rules governing the validity of the elections in which only one candidate for mayor is present. In these municipalities, which are mainly of very small size, we knew that we had problems regarding the presence of members on the list of residents abroad in the audience of those entitled; we knew therefore that we had great problems, in many cases, to guarantee the possibility of deciding elections. With the intervention that has been made and which this House has recently approved, we have included an important element of rationalization, as has the action against ghost lists. I would like to say that, in the same spirit, we hope that we will soon reach the Commission's adoption of a law which will allow us, for the first time, to transpose very quickly a warning judgment of the Constitutional Court (No 48), which, always with regard to the electoral procedure, has warned us of the existence of a lack of judicial protection for those who submit applications for elections to the House and the Senate, which, unlike the election of other representative bodies, find themselves without a judge to whom they can address requests and objections with regard to operations of a purely pre-electional nature. We are looking into this matter, we have listened to many experts and we are counting, with the same method as we have been able to define this measure, on achieving a result on this front too. I must say that the comparison between the political forces and the contribution that the government has always given us correctly in these restricted committees are crucial. I consider everything that I have mentioned so far to be a good hope also for major and important reforms, which I hope the Commission can tackle and which can be grafted on this climate of sharing and broad consensus that has characterized these measures and that it would be good to always find every time we talk about rules of the game. I repeat the Democratic Party's favourable approach to the measure and I thank all the Members of the Commission for their active contribution to the success of our work on the further development and construction of the legislation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the one we are debating, on which perhaps someone has also done some irony, is a very important simplification bill. I would like to say to the President of the Commission and to the rapporteur that, for example, if we were to adopt the method of taking a matter every time and of simplifying it by sector, we might be faced with much more immediate and less complicated results and we would have the opportunity to better analyse where we operate. However, unfortunately, we continue every year, because it has become fashionable, to make decrees of simplification on the whole world universe; then we often do not simplify the lives of citizens. In this case, we certainly operate in a restricted and limited field, but it is important, namely that of democratic participation and elections, giving the possibility to participate also to those who do not have great apparatuses. I am thinking, for example, of the local elections, which took place in October: there are so many civic lists that do not have an apparatus behind them. These simplifications help not only to modernise and finally intervene on procedures and rules that had been established in the fifties (since then the world has changed a bit), but also to make sure that there is a boost in the simplification of the possibilities of participation of citizens, who freely associate and maybe freely want to present themselves in the elections. We therefore take action on existing legislation, while adapting it to the general process of digitisation. Today we are talking about transition, innovation and digital revolution and we often do not realize that we have a set of rules, especially in public administration, which have remained far behind. As I said, we therefore take action to simplify legislation and adapt it to the general process, as well as to lighten a number of pre-election requirements, through innovation and the possibility of using new digital technologies as well. The procedures are therefore made much simpler, the principles of responsibility are taken on more also and, above all, in lightening and simplifying, the strict respect for legality is preserved - and this is important and fundamental. In fact, in my opinion - and this was the spirit that led us in the restricted committee - there are even more elements of certainty from the point of view of legality and transparency, that in the process and above all in pre-election requirements are an absolutely central requirement. These simplification measures are therefore introduced through Articles 1 to 5. As regards the filing of electoral marks, to be honest, we are all a little romantic and remember the files that were made to be the first to present the card, while today we introduce the races: we did things that are part of the political history, even very important, of our country. Today we introduce innovations that simplify, help and give certainty, because often there are problems even in the filing of marks. In this way, in my opinion, we simplify well. The other central profile concerns Article 2, concerning the authentication of the signatures of the electoral list presenters, also through the further extension - finally - of the audience of the subjects authorized to carry out the authentications. This is very important and will concern, among other things, the elections, but also the collection of signatures for the laws of popular initiative, as well as for the referendum, and this is one of the key issues in order to ensure that the citizens' initiative can not only be simplified but supported. There is no need for everyone to have who knows what resources, but citizens who want to work to build a bill of popular initiative or to implement another type of popular initiative are certainly facilitated. Another very important issue and not a small one is related to Article 3, regarding the request for the certification of registration to the electoral lists: also in this case, races on races, the forms arrive, you collect signatures, you carry, there are stamps and then return. Finally, we can send everything via PEC and above all, when the modules return, they do not lose value. In addition, we also give very precise terms for the answer. In article 4 - we speak of a profile that had been introduced also with the law sweeping - we do not loosen the garrison of legality, indeed, I would like to say: even, in my opinion, we increase the transparency mechanism, providing for the parties, with a greater assumption of responsibility, the possibility to request the certification and publication of the certificate of the judicial record. We also give terms to get this certificate. Another very complex matter is the appointment of list representatives. Here again, there is the possibility, at last, to transmit via JEP, with a remarkable simplification. Now, it is important to take action on legislation, because these are very important procedures, but they are very old, because we are intervening on rules that date back many years ago. We therefore believe that the measure we are examining is certainly a limited but important measure. I believe that we must take as a method what we do, for example, in the first Commission, where the work in the restricted committee produces, in my opinion, important results. I would also like to address the Government: if we finally began to examine sector by sector and to intervene with simplifications, we would be able to achieve much more immediate results and perhaps to go even further in intervening on the problems we are facing. I believe that this bill bears witness to the fact that it is a work that can be done and in this case it certainly simplifies the lives of the forces that appear at the elections, but it also greatly encourages the participation - because it simplifies - of citizens in elections, political life and also in the popular initiative. It is not only a matter of modernisation, adaptation to the digitisation process, but it is another element which, in reaffirming and guaranteeing even more the principles of transparency and legality of the whole electoral process, helps a lot and facilitates political participation. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour on behalf of my Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u41	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a prelude to my explanation of vote on this measure and I would like to acknowledge that Parliament has acted in the real interest of the citizens on this occasion. Many times this is a scenario of opposition and controversy and I think it is not inappropriate to point out when Parliament, with its representatives, sets aside the interests of the side - excuse me for the bickering of words - and the slogans and, in essence, the jersey of its party to dress that of the national, since we are on the subject of European championships and ours up to now has made a figure. I have to say that this criterion has been established in the first Commission, certainly because of President Parrini, whom we thank, but also because of the sense of responsibility of all the representatives. This is yet another measure which is being fired unanimously within the restricted committee and therefore within the Commission and which is about to have the unanimous vote of the whole House. President Parini mentioned the previous measure on simplifying the collection of quorum signatures for elections and anticipated adaptation to the Constitutional Court's warning; I would also like to mention the inclusion of environmental protection in the Constitution, which was a laborious work, but at the end of which a synergy and a synthesis were found that satisfied everyone and I believe that Parliament has done an excellent job. I do not want to go back to the simplifications that this measure has brought and that the Senate is about to launch, with the hope that the House will also examine it quickly, so that it can be used already in the next round of the local elections. I would rather like to put a question of method. Mr President, in simplifying the various procedures and also in the wake of a digitalisation campaign launched by the Government and this majority (which I hope will be completed quickly, given the complexity of our territory), we are witnessing an abnormal situation. We give the representatives of the parties the opportunity to request the electoral certificates for JEP and we oblige the municipalities to respond for JEP within 24 hours. I remember the defiance present in the law of 2019, which provided for the sanction for parties that did not publish criminal certificates on their site, but did not give them any possibility to request them independently, with the consequence that there was a sanction, but not a delegation to the party. On the other hand, the measure under consideration is the representative of both the national party and the civic list to replace the negligent candidate in the request for the criminal certificate. And here is the anomaly, which is not explained, by virtue of which the municipal employees are obliged to return within twenty-four hours, by the same means (i.e. certified mail), the electoral certificates, while when you arrive at the burdens of the representatives of the Ministry of Justice (in this case, the employees of the criminal record) the term PEC disappears and is not used. The consequence is that the JEP must be used by citizens for anything, but not by public administration staff. This is an inexplicable attitude, which should be simplified and much simplified, because rather than having files of people going every day to request the criminal certificate, with a simple click (respecting transparency, legitimacy, delegation and so on) it would have been possible to send certificates. Then I ask myself a question. This issue has been addressed and dealt with in the restricted committee and in the Commission and, albeit with some difficulty, a political synthesis has been found between the various positions of all parties on a measure which we all consider useful, necessary and urgent. Now it is not possible for the innovation and simplification introduced by this measure to go against a wall of inadequate ministerial bureaucracy, which replaces - and not for the first time - in an arbitrary way the prerogative of Parliament and the legislator. [[Applause]] It is Parliament that decides what needs to be done and that - having been pointed out by the Italian sovereign people - dictates the line to which bureaucracy must adapt, ensuring that the results are achieved and equipped to do so. When politics falls behind it is certainly not good for democracy and when it is not in a position to play its role, we certainly take steps backwards and not forwards. I hope that sooner or later attention will be paid to this problem and that there will be a time for reflection, discussion and deepening. This cannot always be the case: Parliament cannot stop in the face of the unjustified opposition of the ministerial bureaucracy, which must give its opinion from a technical point of view, but the political choice must remain in the hands of the legislator. [[Applause]] I hope that our representatives within the Government will be the bearers of this situation and of this cry of sorrow which is being launched by Parliament, which, after consuming hours and days to find complicated and delicate synthesis, but necessary, must then stop in the face of unjustified rejection. In fact, there is no valid justification that the criminal record cannot answer for JEP, as do all other offices and citizens who ask for certificates and carry out activities. We will vote in favour, because we have wanted, sought and composed this measure. There is still this little murky note, which I hope will be the beginning of a new reflection and a new relationship between politics and bureaucracy, which must not hinder, but help. Today we are discussing simplifications in the House, but if they are only to simplify others and not the burdens borne by the public administration, we have not solved any problem, especially today, when tens of thousands of assumptions are announced that must be used precisely to digitize our system and make it faster and responsive to the needs of modern times. We therefore voted in favour of the measure, thanking Mr Lanzi who threw the stone into the pond and gave immediate availability, when I asked him to include additional rules, always in the wake of simplification. In order to achieve a result, we avoided waiting for the draft law to be combined with what I had presented, including the rules in the text, because we are not interested in the form, but in the substance. We are not interested in having the name on a bill, but having obtained a result in the interest of the country and the Italians. Despite the fact that I hope it will be dealt with and resolved sooner or later, we are voting in favour of the draft law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u44	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to speak in an explanation of vote on the measure before us, because it is the second in a very short time that has been dealt with and concluded by the 1st Commission with a very favourable outcome, not only because of its concrete and formal outcome, but also because of its working methods. I am referring to those of the restricted committee, to which Mr Augussori took part, which already explained the articles of the measure in detail during the general discussion. I think it is very important that everyone, in their own time, on the basis of their own experience and abilities - because we don't all know everything about anything - becomes available from time to time to deepen a topic. It seems a very simple thing to say, but, in fact, it is not and has not always been so. In our Commission we are lucky to have, in addition to enormous measures, which we find difficult to analyse in the prescribed times, even others, which are smaller, not as important, but as a number of articles, and we are able to intervene in a timely and sensible manner. I would like to point out that we are used to hearing about simplification decrees, but then in the end we do not even understand what is inside. Measures such as the one at our examination or the one on the quorum of the single list of Italians residing abroad (AIRE) concern real simplifications, which really improve the functioning of the public machine and facilitate the work of citizens, who in this case are in the role of potential candidates or people who within the parties manage the pre-election operations or even those in charge of the public administration who manage to speed up their work thanks to these punctual norms. I do not want to go too far in my explanation of vote, because it is obvious that our vote will be in favour. I believe that time should be used in Parliament to speak when something has to be said. If we can bring home a bill in less than a month, it means that when we speak little and work so much, well in a collaborative and friendly way, the results are there. So perhaps one of the problems in this place is also that we should think about other methods of working. I am not saying that the 1st Commission is the best or the one who has guessed everything, because it would not be absolutely true. However, it is appropriate to take inspiration, as we are doing, from other Members in other Commissions to understand what are the best ways to exercise our democratic power and to ensure that what we are doing here produces concrete results for the citizens. Let me give you an example: when a person applies, at first he does not know what is waiting for him in terms of bureaucracy, but the bill in question solves issues that created terrible anxieties, especially, as colleagues also said, for civic lists or for small ones (maybe we don't talk about the big parties), because we suddenly found ourselves confronted with the bureaucracy machine, with which we had never had to deal and unfortunately sometimes we can make small mistakes. For example, the electoral symbol can be communicated via certified e-mail (PEC), while before it was sufficient to print the symbol on the glossy paper with a mistake of millimeters to cancel the deposit and then the candidature was called into question. It is planned to simplify the authenticity of the signatures, so the city councilman no longer has to give the communication to the mayor in order to make the authentic signatures; it is simply in his power to authenticate the signatures as city councilman. A simplification is then achieved in the request for electoral certificates: it is possible to send them and receive them via JEP. If the candidate does not present the certificate of the criminal record, until the entry into force of this provision, a sanction is provided for the party, which cannot remedy the situation; instead, the bill provides that the party itself may request it directly. Anyone who has been a list representative, even in a small center, knows that until now it was necessary to show up at the seat on Friday or Saturday (to be in presence, maybe you could have problems working); now, simply communicate, with a single sending through PEC, the names of the list representatives. In addition to what has been said about the working capacity of this Parliament, I would like to stress that, although we sometimes succeed in achieving good results, also thanks to the cooperation between us, there is always some bitterness, when we are confronted with internal problems relating precisely to the bureaucratic functioning of the various ministries, offices and officials. In fact, many of us sometimes start off with very good intentions and enthusiasm, but then we realize that, for matters that seem to us really little account and small compared to the problem to be faced, there are obstacles that sometimes we do not understand if there is a lack of will to resolve them or a strange pleasure in putting the sticks between the wheels to democracy. These are issues that should really bother a Member and that always happen with all governments, there are no great differences between the majority and the minority, everyone has been the victim of these bureaucratic gibberishes. If we want bureaucracy to be no longer an insurmountable obstacle to the progress of this country, we should first of all try to ensure that it is not the case for the work of this Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u47	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I am pleased to speak in an explanation of vote, because today, with the adoption of this bill at my first signature, enriched by the valuable contribution of several colleagues, we are cutting an important milestone, completing a path that lasted only a few weeks, thanks to the agreement between all the Groups. This is one of the few approved parliamentary drafts of legislation and this tells you a lot about how to improve, reversing the trend. Parliament is once again playing the role entrusted to it by the Constitution, dealing with and modifying on its own initiative some anachronistic provisions of our system. The simplification and digitisation provided for in this text concern all the pre-election procedures, but even more important is the fact that the approval of this bill marks the adoption - I dare say - of the 5 Star model. Now the parties will have no more excuses. In fact, among the many improvements, the political forces will be able to request the criminal certificate before running for the aspirants: model 5 Stars! [[Applause]] We have always done so; it is never too late to follow these paths and we welcome you. As I have already said in the general debate, the adoption of this draft law cannot be regarded as an obvious result, because it simplifies, without political color, a non-ethically demanding subject, as are, of course, euthanasia and therapeutic cannabis, which this House should soon address. It is a simple bill, but nevertheless, without my insistence, the commitment of the rapporteur, Senator Vincenzo Garruti, the support of all, starting with the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Dario Parrini, Senator Luigi Vitali and the leader, Senator Maria Laura Mantovani, and the advice of Senator Roberto Calderoli, we would still be far from his approval. In fact, if on the political side we have also found broad shores from our Undersecretaries, first of all Carlo Sibilia, who followed the measure, I can only point out the usual bureaucratic ostracism by certain ministerial structures, which very often try to slow down the strong demands of change coming from civil society, also through politics. It would be good then to point out the much-declaimed separation between politics and administration, the subject of numerous legislative interventions, but still not fully implemented today. This ostracism is unacceptable. Considering that explanations of vote are valid as a preparatory act, an amendment, which has just been approved, has been tabled to introduce the five-day deadline to allow the court to forward the certificates to the applicant, with the hope that the courts will use for the delivery of certificates all the telematic channels available to them, starting from the JEP, receiving the opinion of the referring Commission. But if we go back to the simplifications under discussion, it is clear that more can be done on the same subject. I am referring to other proposals that have already been tabled, which we will have the opportunity to translate into concrete rules soon, such as the Senate Act 862, a draft law signed by Senator Felicia Gaudiano, drawn up to prevent fraudulent behavior put in place by list representatives, aimed at expressing their vote several times in the context of the same electoral consultation. I am also referring to Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Sergio Vaccaro, which, if approved, would have introduced further simplifications in the procedure for the appointment of scouts. Mr Parini, as you said a moment ago, take up the challenge and we also close together on these comments, without delay. In conclusion, I now hope that the House of Deputies will also show the same sensitivity on this issue and proceed in just as short a time to the final adoption of this bill. It must be operational for the supplementary local elections next autumn, otherwise all our efforts will be thwarted. In conclusion, happy for the work done by this branch of Parliament, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u48	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: "Simplification in the matter of electoral proceedings" [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Bursium]] Some senators complain about the malfunction of their voting device. I invite them to change posts or to report them later, so that their votes are recorded. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on the report by Mr XXII, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. The rapporteur, Senator Pittella, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that we are setting up a committee of inquiry into the subject of gambling. On the contrary, it testifies to the great attention of politics to a sector characterized by many aspects, which justify different, or even antithetical, views. The profession of politics is precisely this: to listen, to verify the different positions and then to try to make a synthesis. This operating scheme has already been put in place by the Finance Committee in examining the document submitted by the Senators of the Italia Viva Group, at the first signature of Senator Marino. The Commission immediately agreed with the initiative, concentrating the amendment phase on the provisions that could lead to an error of perspective. The object of the investigation is not the public game in Italy, but the illegal game and any malfunctions of the public game. In fact, it is a prevailing and shared opinion, even among the most critical and sensitive parliamentary groups to the social consequences of the spread of gambling, that the gambling sector is an important economic and productive component, with employment profiles and erarial revenues worthy of great attention and certainly cannot be the subject of a parliamentary or administrative inquiry, also in relation to the execution of the concessions, also verifying the possible occurrence of overlaps and antinomies in the action of contrast to the illegal game. Particular attention will be paid to preventing the tasks of the Commission institution from overlapping with those of other investigation bodies, in particular with the Anti-Mafia Commission, whose in-depth work is primarily aimed at combating organised crime. Attention was then paid to some of the concerns raised in particular by some of the members of the Movimento 5 Star Group. In conclusion, the proposal emerged, on the basis of the original one of Italy Viva, is very balanced and will certainly allow us to do a serious, secular job, attentive to the size and all the profiles of the illegal game, but also to the eventual malfunctions of the legal game. I am very grateful to all the members of the Finance Committee, from the first to the last, for each of them has had a great deal of readiness for dialogue, listening and cooperation, and this bill is the result of this collaborative climate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u51	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u52	Mr President, I have nothing to add to what the rapporteur has said.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of the document in the text put forward by the Commission. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u56	MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, with this measure we are ideally taking a path which has been interrupted in the last parliamentary term; a path of obstacles in which different sensitivities overlapped: there were those who opted for systemic reform and those who preferred sectoral analysis. In this way, there were also different competences, which could affect the Commission's finances or the Health Commission, in dealing with problems with sensitivity that were different themselves. As evidenced by the two groups of draft laws presented both to the Senate and to the House of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, the two priority profiles were those that referred to the Finance Committee and the theme of the Health Commission. In fact, the path was much longer and started from the law of fiscal delegation, Law No. 23 of 2014, where, in Article 14, addresses were given so that there was a systematic collection of the discipline in a code of disposition of the games. It was then hypothesized the reorganization of the erarial withdrawal, interventions aimed at protecting minors from the advertising of games, as well as interventions aimed at recovering from the disorder of gambling, the ADI, what we vulgarize in ludopathy, the people most exposed. I mention only these, because they are some of the most significant themes. Unfortunately, this rule was one of the five unimplemented points of tax delegation, along with that of land register, tax justice, environmental taxation and the collection of local authorities. The delegation expired on 27 June 2015. Taking note of the failure of the implementation of the delegation in this matter, the law of stability of 2016 intervened, in article 1, paragraph 936, giving provisions that, in the unified conference State-Regions, were defined: the characteristics of the points of sale where the public game is collected; the criteria of distribution and territorial concentration of the points of sale, but also the protection of health, the protection of public order, the protection of the public faith of the players and, of course, the protection of minors of age. On 5 May 2016, a discussion began on the regulation of games, with local authorities and with the Anti-Mafia Commission: particular sensitivity, also with respect to the motions approved by the Parliament and the draft parliamentary laws. In other words, the state wanted to reason on the distribution of the offer and regulate it, because the increase of the offer, which was the answer to the illegal game, found a reaction, by the local authorities, that saw a social emergency effect. On everything, clearly, it dominated the lack of a national regulatory framework, against the fact that in 2016 the revenue for the treasury was as much as 10.5 billion euros. At the same time, in view of what was experienced as a cloaking process by the then Executive, several draft laws were presented, which, basically, only the Senate opened up in two strands: one referred to the bill presented by Senator Mirabelli, who also asked for the urgency procedure under Article 77 of the Senate Regulation and which had a broad character, being provisions on the reordering of games. There were others. To name just a few, that of Senator Endrizzi, who is present in the Chamber, but also those of Senator Albano and Senator Crosio, who instead reasoned more about advertising games. There was even a conflict of powers between the House and the Senate, which was resolved by the two Presidents of the Chambers, placing the matter at the head of the Senate. When it seemed that, at last, the parliamentary process was on the launch pad, this was interrupted, at the specific request of the Commission. The Commission argued: since we have moved forward and are moving forward in the relationship with the unified conference, it would be wise to take advantage of the best opportunity. After a parliamentary debate on this subject, Parliament decided to take a step back and leave a free hand to the Government, which signed the agreement at the Unified Conference on 7 September 2017. He understood that, however, it was not respected precisely by some underwriters. I made this brief summary picture because it shows the level of anarchy from the point of view of the legislative path and therefore the need to put order between the rules. Therefore, if we combine the historical narrative of what has happened, the vertical increase of the phenomenon of the game in general and the increasing dimension of the illegal game, which has peaked precisely on the occasion of the pandemic and which has forced the reduction of the offer of the legal game, in the face of the necessary closures, we understand why the opportunity to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the illegal game and the dysfunctions of the public game. I would remind you that the title has been amended in this way, thanks to an amendment which is the result of the Commission's work. The sense of this is to put order in the intricate matasse of the hierarchy of sources, to understand the role actually played by the possible presence of criminals in relation to money laundering, to the manipulation of gambling terminals, but also to the creation of a parallel network of wear in which many of the weak subjects that are sucked up by this vortex, to verify what is the impact of the technological transformations of the system, starting from the online game, that has ended up assuming a predominant role in some areas, in which it will have to intervene from the regulatory point of view, and to verify the effectiveness of public discipline in relation to the protection of the weakest subjects and the contrast of the spread of gambling disorder. Colleagues, I do not list the contents, which you will see detailed in Article 3 of the text when we examine them. However, I would like to say that the text was the result of choral work, for which I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Pittella, for there were different sensitivities, but together with the President of the Commission we were able to bring them to a synthesis, with an ambitious objective. This is the picture: now it is important that this analysis work be done without the veil of pre-judgment, in the etymological sense of the term and with an attitude that, allowing me to borrow the words of Tacitus at the beginning of the "Annales," is truly sine ira et studio, that is, without animosity and sympathy. Only in this way, with this Commission of Inquiry, will we have the opportunity to seize a long-awaited opportunity, as I have tried to sum up, and to provide a small but important service to the country. In this constructive spirit, the Italia Viva Group says yes to the approval of the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry in our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u59	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I begin my speech with a premise, which is, however, substantial in our assessment of the Committee of Inquiry. Colleagues, let us welcome this Commission: we will explain it and motivate it. However, we cannot fail to remind the House, our colleagues in the majority, our colleagues in the centre-right, our friends in the League and in Forza Italia that, if this Commission was needed, we have long considered that we also need a Commission on the subject of the Covid-19 and the pandemic, which will clarify how the pandemic was managed by Covid-19. We therefore expect the same positivity, which we are going to advocate today in favour of this Commission, to come as soon as possible also on a subject that many Italians have long been waiting for to be addressed, with the same seriousness and commitment. Having said that, I would also like to make some terminology considerations concerning the Commission in question, which we see as a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the field of public play in Italy and the fight against illegal gambling. Well, at the terminological level, I think it would have been more correct - and I say this also to make it clear how we are dealing with this issue - to talk about a Commission of inquiry into the pathological phenomenon, that is, illegal gambling, and a Commission of inquiry into what the physiological phenomenon is, that is, public and legal play. In this spirit we will approach this Commission, which will certainly have to investigate the growing phenomenon - alas - of illegal gambling and which will have to be, in a constructive way, investigation into public and legal gambling. A terminological distinction that is not formal, but absolutely substantial. I now come to the fundamental and important aspects of such a Commission, which I believe can essentially be identified in three passages: the problem of ludopathies, which is certainly present in all of us, the problem of lawlessness and mafias, on which I will return, and the problems - let me say it with some pathos - of public play. These issues concerned a sector consisting of tens of thousands of small businesses and over 150,000 employees, who are suffering for over thirteen months of lockdown. Let's not forget that the sacrifices that have often been wrongly imposed, as we have repeatedly pointed out, to many Italian companies, bars, restaurants and gyms, are sacrifices that they see in the operators of the public game, that is in the dealers of the State (let's not forget this), those who have been hit most and less have been helped. So let us remember - and the Commission will have to remember too - tens of thousands of public players and more than 150,000 people in the sector. Therefore, coming to the individual aspects, there is the theme of ludopathy. When you approach the phenomenon of the game, you can't help but think about this problem as well. We must remember that the game itself is not a pathology, as alcohol, food and so many pleasures of life are not a pathology. They can become it; here lies the discriminating that a person of liberal thinking cannot fail to consider. This is the first aspect that we need to take as a reference when dealing with the issue of ludopathies. In this regard, we must immediately say that the pathology, that is, the degeneration of the passion for the game, finds a barrier first of all in the operators of the public game, because these are the only ones that must adhere to the rules given, that can control that minors do not play and that they can control the degenerative phenomena. Basically, the regulations, limitations and safeguards that we want to put in and that we have placed in place to protect people from this disease see in the legal operators the first architects and supporters. Conversely, where, often even in a sense, the Regions have actually caused the closure of the operators of the legal game (I think, for example, Piedmont or Emilia-Romagna), in those Regions the illegal game has statistically exploded and have toasted to champagne - as I often say - the mafias and illegality, that is, the operators who thrive on the closure of the legal game, who expect nothing but restrictive norms and increasing prohibitionism, because there they earn and toast. We have to be clear about that. So, from this point of view too, there is the issue of reforms, another aspect that we will have to consider in the guidelines that the Commission will then have to give. What kind of reforms do we want to promote? What will be the path to follow? Will it be a path - which I do not think desirable - of ghettoizing the game, perhaps in the large halls, where, of course, the player spoiled, pathological and that is isolated unfortunately finds a context, a habitat to worsen in his vice, or should we instead favour the operators of the so-called machines in which at most one or 200 euros can be inserted? Here is in fact the distinction between the entertainment machine, on the one hand, and the professional gaming rooms at the casino on the other: to be able to insert 100 or 200 euros at a stroke in the machine or instead a euro. These are issues on which we will have to reason, also with a view to reform and therefore to protecting our fellow citizens, which must approach this world in a natural and not perverse way. This would, of course, also make it possible to put a stop to lawlessness. In fact, I remind myself and all of you of the words of the national anti-Mafia prosecutor Cafiero De Raho, who I think is above all suspicion, who said, I read it: ==References====External links==* Official website There is therefore the lawlessness to be fought through a reform of the public game: for this I used to talk about investigation of the public game. So we come in a constructive way to a reform that is in the true interest of the country and in the contrast to mafias and lawlessness, which instead, I repeat, with the censorship tout court, find only comfort. These are public figures, which are also found by the Customs and Monopolies Agency and the Finance Guard. To conclude, the last issue that I consider interesting for the Commission's work is the role of our businesses, our small and medium-sized enterprises. Even in the world of the game we will have to decide, in fact, as I said before, whether to give space, on the one hand, to the isolated game, to the game of the great halls with respect to the entertainment game and, on the other, whether to guarantee the monopoly of multinational companies, mostly foreign, or to give work to small Italian companies. This is another discrimination that for Brothers of Italy is important and on which we will ask everyone for help. I repeat and close, Mr President, we will ask everyone for help on the protection of our fellow citizens, on the fight against all forms of negativity and ludopathy, but, on the other hand, on the protection of our national companies and their employees.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u62	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I believe that today's passage in this House and the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry can be useful tools to rekindle the spotlight on a very important sector for the country's economy, an area that really needs to be analysed, evaluated and deepened. We need to think about the legal field. Too many things have happened. There is no organic reform of the sector and we are talking about an important sector, which guarantees eight billion per year of revenue to the Italian State, but which is also strongly permeable to crime and illegality. There are many investigations that we have seen going from North to South in these months and years, which have seen organised crime penetrate the legal game or manage the illegal game. Responding to all this means enhancing, as it is right to do, the importance of the legal game, maintaining a legal game also to counter lawlessness, but you have to know that this is not enough. It is necessary to verify the capital of legal companies: who invests in the legal game? We need to create rules that are stronger and stronger than the online game, which today is a phenomenon that is spreading more and more. It is necessary to establish strict rules such as those that have guaranteed, with the measure that we approved in the last legislature, the possibility, as was necessary, of connecting all slot machines and all VLT devices remotely, in order to prevent those scams to consumers that were perpetrated by modifying the machine cards. There is much to be done and perhaps the Commission can help, as the Anti-Mafia Commission is helping, that it is dealing with illegal gambling. It is a sector reserved for the State, but it needs strong reflection and organic reform, because it is experiencing great contradictions. I guess we all agree that we have to fight the ludopathies and we know that the game, even the legal one, produces in some addicts. We know that there are families that have been ruined by the game, and not by the illegal one. You have to fight the ludopathies, you have to establish strict rules in the operation, for example, of VLTs and slot machines, to prevent people from ruining themselves. It is necessary to anticipate slower times of play, the possibility of playing less money than those that can be played. If we are to combat ludopathies, we must reduce the demand and supply of gambling. To reduce demand, we have also done important things, such as banning television advertising on the game, but that is not enough. We know that many of these rules continue to be bypassed, especially in the world of sport. Also on the question of reducing demand, we intervened, in the last legislature, deciding to reduce the presence of machines by 30% in bars and public spaces, an important intervention, as well as when we made the health card necessary in order to be able to play in the games rooms, with the aim of ensuring also a verification, to help the people most predisposed to ludopathy. However, we need rules of operation and we all agree on this too: we need to reduce demand and offer of play. Then this cannot be done if, while on the one hand we reduce demand and offer of play, on the other hand we put more money into the state budget on the entry entry from the game. This is what is happening: there is a bit of an increase in the one-stop-pick-up (Preu) and taxes, but we still have a piece of the state budget that depends on the game. If we want to be serious, really reduce demand and supply and really safeguard businesses, we have to say this: less demand and less supply, but also less revenue into the state budget from gambling. Otherwise, there's no way out. 18.36 (Following MIRABELLI). I conclude by saying that we cannot even think of protecting an important economic sector such as that of companies offering gambling, beyond what happened because of the pandemic. Over the last ten years, these companies have faced a situation of constant uncertainty, of continuous change of rules and of impossibility to predict their future and - I add - also to find a State that helps them when they are asked to repent and do other precisely to reduce demand and offer of play. I think that for these reasons we need a reform of the overall reorganization of the sector and I hope that the Secretary who has the delegation on this will agree with me. We need a law to reorder because there are so many issues to deal with. The agreement reached at the end of the last legislature in the State-Regions Conference was important and good, but it died - or was killed - a few days before the new legislature, when, after a long work, a square had finally been found. I would ask the Undersecretary to start from there, knowing that this is something we can do quickly and that in the Senate there are legislative proposals that go in this direction. Let's start here. The Commission may be useful to act as a spur, give arguments and build insights, but we need a law of reordering. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u65	LANNUTTI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the establishment of a Parliamentary Commission for a single-camera inquiry into the public gaming sector in Italy and the fight against illegal gambling. In Italy gambling involves about 10 million people: from online betting to slot machines. Ludopathy sufferers are 1.3 million, as acclaimed by the National Observatory on Combating Gambling. Ludopathy is an even worse social scourge than alcoholism and drug addiction. As I have already had the opportunity to say in the Finance and Treasure Commission, in addition to instant lotteries, instant lightning committees are also being set up, and I am delighted. However, I would like to recall - I say this without acrimony - that on May 22, 2018 (more than three years ago) I had presented the bill n. 411, the third to my first signature after the rules to protect and guarantee the right to property of the first house (n. 319). With regard to the latter, unfortunately today the Consulta declared unconstitutional the second extension, from 1 January to 30 June 2021, of the suspension of the executive procedures on the first house, in addition to the provisions on incompatibility with the participation in associations that involve the bond of obedience, as required by Masonic lodges or associations based on the oath or the bond of belonging. The bill n. 364, rules for the fight, reduction and prevention of pathological gambling, assigned on 20 October 2018 to the Finance and Health Commissions, despite the reminders, lies dusted in the drawers of the Commissions. Sure, the pandemic changed things. According to the Institute of Health (ISS) the awareness of being ludopathic with lockdown has increased; at home they are in withdrawal crisis. The impossibility to gamble for a person with a specific disorder can cause an increase in the level of stress, anxiety, aggressive sleep disorders, to the extent that it exacerbates social relations of coexistence. So, suddenly, a lot of people realized they were addicted. The situation is very serious especially when the ludopaths play. People with ludopathy usually establish an exclusive and highly engaging relationship with the game. The high level of excitement pushes them to neglect family, affection and work, not to mention the money stolen from the everyday life of the family. According to the Blue Book, drawn up by the Agency of Customs and Monopolies, in Italy every year the stakes exceed 110 billion euros, a figure equivalent to two gigantic financial maneuvers. It is as if every Italian bet a total of 1,780 euros a year and is an increasing figure, especially because of the online game, which represents a third of the total turnover of the sector. 18.43 (Followed by Mr Lannutti). According to the Revenue Agency, the volume of gambling turnover increases by 3.5 percent per year as far as physical gambling is concerned, by 16 percent as far as online gambling is concerned. So-called poker cash is the lion's share and it's games where there's always only one winner: the company that promotes the game. The player always loses, sometimes he gets reduced on the pavement; but there is more: gambling not only reduces the standard of living of the ludopath and his family; to lose is also the real economy to which precious resources are taken away. The compulsive player limits his spending capacity with obvious damage to the economic and commercial circuit and, in addition, affects mainly the lower sections of the population, the people with lower levels of education, those with precarious jobs. According to recent statistics from the Institute for the Health of the Child and the teenage child Jesus, gambling is on the rise among young people. 49 percent of young Italians between the ages of four and nineteen have played Lotto at least once, 20 percent of very young between the ten and seventeen years old have attended the betting rooms, 25 percent of children between the seven and nine years have bought the tagliandi and scratch cards. In addition, apps for mobile phones and tablets that offer hundreds of gaming, which can also be downloaded for free in the children's version with attractive images and formats, are increasing alarmingly. More and more minors use mobile phones and tablets every day from which they can access gaming applications. Among the very young there is a very high risk of developing dependence on gambling. It is precisely the State that is responsible for this social disaster. Entertainment devices, i.e. slot machines and videolottery, are the most used with 63 percent of the total physical network games. Following are lotteries, including snapshots, so-called scratch cards and wins, with 12.4 percent, and various types of Lotto, with 10.8 percent. So it is okay, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, to investigate the field of public play and the fight against illegal gambling, but ludopathy and health and social costs with the game that gets on the weakest with the complicity of the state would have deserved more attention. Gambling, which for Cavour's Camillo Benso was the voluntary tax on fools, the tax on morons, is fierce on the weakest, just those whom the State, through the Constitution, should protect, so should not be complicit. We should change paradigms, starting to treat gambling with the same approach as we face drugs, without hiding our heads under the sand, pretending, in order to safeguard the historical revenues, that we do not know the health, social and human costs that the State is forced to pay with interest. In conclusion, Madam President, there has certainly been some improvement in the initial system, partly thanks to the debate that has taken place and to our amendments, but it is still not enough. That is why I shall abstain personally on the vote on the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u68	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for those who have experienced the adventure of an intense, heated, prolonged reflection, capable of raising problems of all kinds and order with regard to gambling, the Commission of Inquiry arrives a little like a lightning to heaven. We all wanted a framework law on gambling; we all wanted to be able to discuss a law in its organic structure. Today, however, with the Commission of Inquiry, we have to intervene in a surgical way or in any case more similar to the work that a doctor does when he intervenes on a body that he considers already ill, infected. To set up a Commission of Inquiry, in fact, means to assume that what is wrong is already on the premise; it means to assume in premise a vision in which the elements of danger of what we are doing at the moment are inherent in the structure itself, the one that we can consider the infrastructure of gambling. Many colleagues who have spoken in an explanation of vote have invoked the completely ambiguous role of the State, exercised by the Government through the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which in turn exercises it through the Agency of Customs and Monopolies, which in turn exercises it through its dealers, who in turn exercise it through the managers. It is a long chain that always leads back to the father master who, in the dimension of the State, the Government, the MEF is none other than the one who, with the Agency of Customs and Monopolies, makes cash on gambling. This dimension has been cited by some for good and others for bad; some have pointed out that gambling has significant revenue for general taxation. We are talking about revenues that exceed 14 billion; a few years ago they were almost equal to a financial maneuver. Today we no longer know what a financial maneuver will be, what its size will be, probably stratospheric, but there has been a period of time when from gambling the state drew important energies for general taxation and this created that conflict of interest that is the most dangerous aspect of gambling, because the state has no interest in reducing it; at most it could have some interest in regulating it, but always without reducing the tax revenue it makes use of. This was our battle in previous years: putting on a plate of the scales what the Government collected from gambling and on the other plate what it invested to repair the damage that gambling had occasioned. And the damage was, it was in the pathology. We did everything we could to change the definition of the diagnosis from ludopathy to gambling. The word ludopathy, in fact, always evokes a dimension of play: think of the ludotheques, the spaces in which children are taken to play. We have struggled to replace ludopathy with gambling, so that the size of gambling might be evident. But the government has always conceded very little. We will realize this on Thursday and Friday, when the Ministry of Health tries to take stock of mental health. We will then see how little investment is being made, in many respects, also to control the dramatic phenomenon of dependence. Ludopathy is a very particular dependence, because it is without matter: addiction to alcohol has a matter, which is alcohol (I abstain from alcohol); addiction to tobacco has a matter, smoking tobacco (I abstain from smoking); addiction to drugs we do not even talk about it. A short time ago, some of my colleagues called for the fact that in this House we should talk about the liberalisation of drugs, that is, this frightening dimension that creates dependencies of all kinds, genders and species, which in turn becomes a very high risk source. What does the state do to deal with the disease? To what extent, for example, does he take on the long psychotherapy processes that would be needed to shift the focus of these people's attention from the game to other goals, which concern self-affirmation, identity, self-esteem? It doesn't do much or anything. He does not do much more for any other aspect of mental health, but on this precise front he does nothing. Do you know where people with gambling treat themselves? In centres for the treatment of addictions, where we find, first of all, addiction to alcohol and drugs; perhaps at this time we begin to find dependence on the Internet (other kind of dependence sine matter) and also dependence on gambling. The four addictions I mentioned belong to the same subject. Today, in fact, addiction is always a multi-dependence. This model of treatment, however, in certain aspects, instead of taking charge of the multidimensional patient, seems to create areas of contagion and contamination such that a person is subject, by virtue of his own fragility, to contract dependence on any object that at that moment seems to satisfy the logic of desire. What does the state do, which cashes so much, to remedy these risks? And there are not only the risks of physical health and mental health; there are also all the risks associated with that impoverishment that has been denounced, described, quantified by other colleagues. The player, by definition, is destined for a process of impoverishment. We have extraordinary and beautiful novels (I don't want to mention Dostoevsky's one now, but there are also more recent ones) that describe this demon, which in fact necessarily involves impoverishment, not only material - because these people play everything - but also affective, because the same family bonds break apart, mutual trust fails and one feels stripped and robbed of one's own. This impoverishment, in one dimension and the other, generates the risk and temptation of wear. In Rome the usurers are called "cravattars," because they take you by the neck; go and ask for a small economic resource to meet a debt that will then save you, because you will translate that economic resource into the temptation to play. Do you know where the issue of the Commission of Inquiry is dealt with in the document? This was the subject of my amazement today in the Commission, when we voted on the opinion: in Article 3 (1) (g). In the document as a whole, all the problems I have outlined are contained in three lines. This is a perverse will to create damage without a repair; the rest certainly revolves around the economic dynamics that one tries to safeguard in every way: any advantage, but without reduction of revenue. Nor is the issue of illegal gambling dealt with with with all the seriousness and rigour required. Mr President, I should like to close with one comment: it is a pity that as soon as this Commission of Inquiry is set up (I hope that it will be formed soon, but it will happen in any case in the wake of the summer break), it will have barely one year of life, so that the economic appropriations envisaged will also make a little smile (the 25 million for this year and the 70 million for the following years). I hope that, beyond what may seem to be talk, in fact, we will have the courage to deal with this which we can consider a modern scourge of our society. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u71	BORGHESI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today this House is called upon to approve the establishment of this new parliamentary committee of inquiry. In our view, the work carried out so far has many positive aspects that we hope will affect and effectively combat some hateful problems that afflict our society, not to be ignored or underestimated, but we must take responsibility for them. The main aim of this Commission is undoubtedly the decisive fight against illegal gambling. This phenomenon is very complex and manifests itself in many forms: as we know, it has disastrous effects for our society; it favours organized crime; it creates dependence and contributes to increasing cases of ludopathy, just to name a few. In these situations the role of the State must be clear and unmistakable: in addition to a firm condemnation of illegal gambling, the State must not exploit the weaknesses of its citizens. Weakest, more fragile and younger people, potentially at risk, must be protected. All measures must be put in place to prevent and avoid a senseless and unnatural increase in the spending of individuals and families in the game, which can lead to impoverishment, or even worse, to wear and tear. We realize that the task is not easy at all: we need balance and common sense, we need to strike a balance between employment protection, the protection of activities that are lawful in these areas and that of public health. The State must take responsibility for ensuring fair supply and fair competition between authorised operators. We are aware of the diversification of the various activities and the complexity of the standardisation of each. The sector, in fact, is very large: for example, the production, marketing and management of entertainment equipment, but also the management of the betting sector and the instant lotteries. It is not easy, but the state must take on the weakest. In this context, it is of priority importance and the role of public action in prevention, care and support for those at risk or suffering from ludopathy, in particular by local authorities and health services, must be fully supported. A Commission of Inquiry that sheds light on these issues in all their facets and can identify measures to combat illegal gambling at the root is an objective that this House will also achieve today thanks to our strong support. The Commission will also have to take charge of giving more order and harmonizing the system of legal gambling in Italy, analysing and finding the best solutions to protect opposing legitimate interests in order to safeguard legal activities and avoid social problems for the weakest. We believe that the text we are approving is in this direction. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u74	DI PIAZZA (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, public gambling has been the subject of regulatory action and civil society attention over the years. This has resulted in a complex debate about the diversity of interests and actors involved, which has led to conflicting arguments especially over the past 20 years. The aims of a sector which, in the face of a significant economic dimension, degenerates into ludopathy and social distress - with a percentage incidence that is not acceptable in a State that must put at the centre the well-being and happiness of its citizens -, in addictions and widespread lawlessness that attracts mafias and escapes control of an impact of insufficient rules and - more serious - inadequate. On 11 September 2020, the Customs and Monopolies Agency presented the official gambling data with the annual publication of the main data: collection, expenditure, winnings, cashiers. Italy is the country of Europe where you spend most on gambling. The collection went from 47.5 billion in 2008 to 110.5 billion in 2019, with government revenues this year equal to 11.4 billion. Of the more than 110 billion euros wagered in 2019, more than 46 billion euros come from slot machines, and then the games derived from the lottery, scratch cards, betting rooms and bingo: all based on an idea of questionable luck, which only in the case of games related to sport has some margin of determination in the choice of variables by the player. A panorama in which thousands of people move with numbers that grow every year also for the share of the online game. Also because of the Covid-19, and therefore the closures of the gambling rooms and the restrictions on circulation, we have witnessed in the last year a phenomenon that has been going on for a long time, that is the decided increase of the online game compared to the physical one. Even online gaming would have surpassed the physical game, according to a recent statement by the Director of the Customs and Monopolies Agency. However, this is not good news for the state, being the online game much less taxed than the physical one. In normal times, the State is holding EUR 11 billion from physical games and EUR 350 million from telematic games. In the period of lockdown online gambling has still increased because it is not subject to restrictions, as was the case with physical gambling, and so at the end of 2020 the online budget is around 44 billion gross. People whose faces we don't know: some of them slowly destroy themselves until they become invisible and fragile when, losing the sense of time and money itself, they become prey and then victims of criminal actions such as usury. The so-called Blue Book of the Customs and Monopolies Agency confirmed in 2019 the growth trend, shocked by the consequences of the pandemic, which actually recalled the reflections on the inhuman face of this sector. Because more than parts of an economic theory, the analyses and studies on the game seem a treatise on speculation. The Istat data on Italian poverty, published a few days ago, give us back the photograph of a country in great difficulty, with 5.6 million people (about one in 10) in absolute poverty conditions, that is, with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month, despite important measures adopted by the last governments, such as the income of citizenship, the citizenship pension, the emergency income, to which we add the many Cassaintegrati, on which depends the uncertainty of the future. It is certainly not social justice that is spoken about when it comes to bets and bets. Social justice acts against all forms of discrimination and protects the indispensable rights of each person. Today it is the value of the person, his fragility and his rights, who is threatened by the widespread tendency to use exclusively the criteria of usefulness and of having imposed by the liberal economy. Forms of State and Government that implement social policies based on transgenerational principles, measured and measurable on the impact in the life of each person, have now become the protagonists of the ongoing change towards sustainability and integral human development. Today, in times of pandemics, we must talk about a state that rewards companies that create value and move towards a sustainable economic model that generates wealth and well-being. The economy of gambling, on the other hand, is built on a mega social machine, which extracts value and does not generate wealth. Gambling is a financial operation itself, it does not have an industrial project and an underlying real economy. Let us ask ourselves, then, what are the real costs to be calculated in order to remain in the themes of ethics. Welcome to a Commission of Inquiry that shows intransigence in crime affairs and has a force generating innovative ideas for related social policies. Reflect on the game, therefore, as a tool, recognizing its negative consequences in illegal and uncontrolled use. We are not convinced that it is useful to get to prohibitionism, because, having reached great volumes of gambling, this would result in social fractures and new crime spaces. On the other hand, we believe that it is useful to strengthen restrictive reforms in order to protect the health of citizens and communities. Regions and local authorities have started significant legislative processes, which will provide operational and training measures: limits to the opening hours of the playrooms, a space meter or the prohibition of the opening of playrooms and/or commercial services that host slot machines within a distance, usually about 500 meters, from places defined sensitive, such as schools, places of worship, hospitals, recreational and sports centers, places frequented especially by the most at risk subjects, primarily young and elderly. But that is not enough: it is necessary to proceed with coordinated action at parliamentary and governmental level, to identify the bands that distinguish the types of game by categories, identified for people involved and related risks; it is necessary to train professionals and publicize the risk of gambling, studying new balances, that do not transform the free time of a player in time to free to deliver him to a destructive obsession. With the stop imposed by the Covid-19 also on some areas of gambling, we take the opportunity to start again in a new way, which has an absolute guiding value: the protection of each person from chains of suffering from which it is difficult and unlikely to come out. While the new generations apologize in the name of a sustainable future, we don't nail our guys into a virtual reality made of slot machines and betting, which distract from life paths. There is no common good in the mirage of wealth built on speculation. An act that does not undermine the jobs created in this sector, but that ensures that the market to which they refer is not a territory of illegality and suffering. You see, fellow senators and fellow senators, I remember the proud faces of the exhibitors in Palermo, when before my mandate as senator I was dealing with the fight against ludopathies. The exhibitors, together in the name of their own activity, asked for a simple plaque, with the following words: A slotless bar has more space for people: simple, but at the same time necessary of so much courage and confidence in a state that protects and guarantees fundamental rights. If the aseptic reasoning on industrial budgets does not prove this, it is from these manifestations of responsibility that we must take lessons, warnings and ideas to build new models of sustainable development. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement, which has its own polar star in social justice, welcomes the request to set up a Commission of Inquiry into Gambling, by voting in favour of this document. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u75	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXII, No 32. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As with the agreements that have taken place, we conclude here the work of this House for today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u78	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the waves of migrants' landings do not stop. In the night about a hundred foreigners arrived aboard lucky boats and this is the only last count, which goes to add to the more than 1,100 migrants who landed on the island of Lampedusa weekend, now reduced to collapse. Mr President, this is the beginning of one of the many newspaper articles, which record the situation, which has been repeating itself for many years now - too many - on our coasts. Today, however, Mr President, I do not just want to talk about numbers, which you are well aware of, just as my fellow senators know them well. Mr President, I would ask you to pay attention, because this is a very important issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Saponara. I was trying to do, improperly, two things at the same time. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as I said, today I do not just want to talk about numbers, because the numbers are well known to you, just as my fellow senators know them well. Today I would like to talk about something else, I would like to talk about what is behind these numbers, because it is not enough to say that we have saved and welcomed the shipwrecks that human traffickers put at sea, to say that we have fulfilled our humanitarian duties. It is not enough and it is not enough to say that we have integrated them, just because a number of them have been placed in a shelter or taken over by cooperatives and we have found a job for them. It is not enough, because behind the numbers of these landings, that we of the League contest because uncontrolled [[Applause]] , there are many fragile lives, of which you often lose track. A little over a month ago, in the Childhood Commission, I asked for the missing children to be taken into account by the Child Care Authority and I also asked if there was a database of these children. The database is there, it is held by the Department of Public Security, Central Criminal Police Directorate; it has been updated to 30 June 2020 and takes into account missing children from 1 January 1974 to 30 June 2020. It is therefore obvious that many missing children have not been heard. The data provided by the Child Care Authority indicate this number in 250,000, of which 52.72 percent (i.e. about 132,000) fall within the age group of 18-year-olds. Even though Italy is one of the countries where fewer disappear than other European states, President, the thing that struck me is that 68 percent of these missing children are foreign children, which means that out of ten missing children almost seven are foreigners. The data on the findings are comforting, for goodness sake, and for this we thank those who work to prevent and counter this phenomenon. But there's still a pretty high percentage of minors you can't track anymore. Where, then, do these foreign minors end up? And then you see, President, I get goose bumps when, in one of the many newspaper articles, I read that they arrive on our coasts boats with hundreds of refugees and that among them there are many women, but above all children, most without parents and - I add - maybe sold to the traffickers of human beings and that they will end up in the hands of organized crime; of them we will know nothing more. Does it not seem to you, Mr President, that this is one of the many reasons why it is necessary to stop this dishonorable uncontrolled migration? I leave you with this question and thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u81	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while the Sicilian regional government is proposing a ban on the design of two thermousers, in the province of Enna, in the locality of Dittaino, an incinerator is about to be authorised. With a roboating name ("Water recovery platform by drying sewage sludge and recovering thermal energy from the dry part"), a incinerator is camouflaged that will burn dried sludge from waste water purification plants. Let us be clear: the project I am talking about is complementary to the manifestation of interest for the two thermousers proposed by President Musumeci. It will be a third plant that would be built to burn sludge, but, as can be seen from the list of waste identification codes (annexed to the project), it will also be allowed to burn something else. The environmental assessment procedure was launched in January 2020, in general silence, with the approval of the competent administrations and no publicity of the act aimed at informing the population; the City Council of Enna itself was not called upon to comment on it. The plant will be a few kilometers as the crow flies, from some centers of the Ennese like Agira, Assoro, Calascibetta, Enna, Leonforte, Nissoria and Valguarnera: a great agricultural area of quality, where there are many companies that transform, package and market agri-food products that come on our tables and abroad. This incinerator will destroy organic matter which could, instead, be used for biogas production and composted for subsequent use in agriculture, if free of pollutants. I wonder what is the vision of the regional government in terms of the development of internal Sicily, since there are 400 projects for large photovoltaic plants already presented on the entire regional territory, of which about 50 in the province of Enna, which will occupy areas with agricultural vocation. Just think that only a few months ago three sites for asbestos storage were proposed, a few kilometers from Enna and Caltanissetta, a decision later revoked. Now, as I denounced in the press a few days ago, we want to create an incinerator in the heart of the island: personally, I consider all this unacceptable. [[Applause]] The will of the Sicilian Region to burn waste is obsolete, uneconomical, expensive and harmful to the environment and human health. Moreover, it triggers a perverse mechanism, which will slow down separate collection, missing the European objective that aims at an ever smaller share of waste to be landfilled, a tragic and antithetical scenario at the addresses of the green deal and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as well as common sense. I hope that the Ministry of the ecological transition will clarify the story and block this dark vision of the future of Sicily. Trash doesn't burn. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u84	VANIN (M5S). Mr President, my speech relates to the UNESCO document which has come out just now. After years of reports and threats, UNESCO has now expressed itself firmly on the Venice issue. The risk of the site of Venice and its lagoon being removed from the prestigious list of the World Heritage Site is concrete. The final decision will be taken at the next meeting of the World Heritage Committee in Fuzhou, China, from the 16th to the 31st of July, but in the meantime Venice and its lagoon are belittled on the list of World Heritage and registered on the list of sites in danger. The reasons lie in the obvious inability of the local and national authorities, who will have to take responsibility for not being able to manage the city and its fragile ecosystem, favoring bad choices opposed to the parameters for which Venice and the lagoon were elected as a World Heritage Site. Sixteen points are disputed in the UNESCO report, many of which, among other things, are already the subject of my parliamentary questions. First of all, there is the question of large ships, for which the report strongly calls for a long-term solution that prevents access in the lagoon to large ships, diverting them to more suitable places in the surrounding areas. Then there is the theme of tourist flows. UNESCO calls in fact Venice to develop a real policy of sustainable tourism, which means respecting the city, its system and, above all, its inhabitants, damaged by other impacting projects that you want to do, such as what has recently been proposed to connect Murano to the mainland, with the destruction of the last part of the primitive lagoon with other ports of call and terminals for mass tourism. On the Mose (Electromechanical Experimental Module), the report invites the Italian State to closely monitor the impacts of construction and operation and to develop appropriate measures to mitigate any negative impacts on the lagoon ecosystem. As for Porto Marghera, whose presence of highly polluted industrial site in one of the most fragile lagoons in the world, close to a city, has always constituted an environmental danger, so it is finally asked to progressively eliminate the activities in the port of Marghera that have harmful effect on the ecosystem. It could not go unnoticed even in the southern lagoon the GPL deposit, for which it is asked to dismantle the storage system in Chioggia. In this list it is also specified that all the projects recently submitted for large-scale interventions in goods and environments covered by the UNESCO site must be stopped. Above all, we think that we must block the project of the railway connection to noose, to Tessera, that it previews a excavation of four kilometers, deep 30 meters, to 200 meters from the water of the lagoon, for the construction of a railway tunnel inside a site protected from UNESCO itself, because that area is part of the lagoon Grunda, that therefore must be absolutely protected. There are many other points on which we agree. The aim of UNESCO must be to protect this unique place, the city and its lagoon, its inhabitants and its identity. Venice, I repeat always, is not an infrastructure, but a complex environment and as such must be protected because of the heritage of the world, as the UNESCO report clearly indicated. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-339.ana.u86	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 23 June, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.25 p.m.)
