ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2426. The rapporteurs, Senators Fenu and Laus, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Fenu.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is aimed at converting Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021 into law with urgent measures in the economic and fiscal field, to protect labour and to meet the needs of workers. First of all, I would like to thank the Presidents of the Commission, the representatives of the Government who have participated in these days in the meetings of the Commission, the co-rapporteur, Mr Laus, and all the members of the Commission who have gathered for the long work they have done to improve the text, trying to respond to the issues raised during the debate. Going straight to the details of the content of the measure, I note that Article 1 amends the time limits for the payment of the instalments due in the year 2020 for some institutions for the easier definition of loads entrusted to the collector, putting back the time limits of the taxpayers who have benefited from those benefits with respect to the instalments due in 2020 and 2021. As a result of the changes made during the examination in the Joint Commissions, these payments which I have mentioned (in the sense of breaking-up and balance and removal) are considered timely if they are made within the reunified deadline of 9 December 2021. On the subject, I would like to point out that we welcome the Government's commitment to extend and extend this deadline further (I am always referring to break-b and balance and cut-off) during 2022. Article 2 extends the period for the fulfilment of the obligation resulting from the role, bringing it for the records notified from 1 September to 31 December 2021 from sixty to one hundred and fifty days. This deadline was extended to one hundred and eighty days by an amendment shared by all the parliamentary groups, so the records notified from 1 September 2021 will have payment deadline to one hundred and eighty days and not to sixty, as the ordinary deadline provides. The following Article 3 contains rules applicable to the instalments of amounts entered in current roles at the beginning of the suspension of collection due to the emergency Covid, or to the deferred payments outstanding on 8 March 2020. For these plans, among other things, there is a very long forfeiture of the benefit of the delay, which occurs in case of non-payment of 18 instead of 10 installments even not consecutive. An amendment proposed by us, which puts the instalments of the Bonari Notices which had been suspended from March to May 2020 and which were due to expire on 16 September and 16 December 2020, has been approved. Amendments on administrative simplifications have also been approved, provisions allowing healthcare professionals (i.e. pharmacies, optics, etc.) to continue for one year to carry out the transmission of data relating to health costs (e.g. medicines) in accordance with the technical rules laid down in the Ministerial Decrees implementing Legislative Decree No 175 of 2014. In addition, provision has been made for: a twelve-month postponement for the issuing of technical rules aimed at defining the characteristics of advanced collection systems through which data of daily fees should be stored and transmitted electronically; the extension to 2022 of the ban on issuing electronic invoices by means of an interchange system, always for individuals performing health care services against natural persons; the provision of an obligation, for financial operators making those electronic payment instruments available to operators, to transmit to the Agency revenue, including through PagoPA Spa, the data uniquely identifying the instruments used by the operator, as well as the total daily amount of electronic payments made by means of such instruments. In order to stem, albeit in part marginal, the liquidity crisis caused by the long closure of sports facilities, a provision has been introduced providing for the postponement of all payments due as direct and indirect taxes due from 1 December to 31 December 2021. Article 4 amends, by increasing, the contribution made by the Agency of revenue to the public economic institution Revenue-resoning Agency for the three-year period 2020-2022, in order to carry out the functions of the national collection service. Article 5, paragraphs 1 to 4, governs the allocation and management of the resources required to cover expenditure on administrative management and the award of prizes for the lottery of fees. Paragraph 5 provides that the tax credit granted to certain undertakings performing theatrical activities and live performances can only be used in compensation. Paragraph 6 simplifies the procedure for entrusting to the Agency the revenue-discounting activities of collecting the revenues of the companies participated by the local authorities, eliminating the need for the decision of custody by the participating entities provided for by the previous rule. Paragraphs 7 to 12 provide for a procedure for the spontaneous release, without the application of sanctions and interest, of tax credits for investments in research and development activities by those persons who have misused them. In the course of the examination of the reunited Commissions has been approved the amendment that deletes paragraph 14 which, modifying article 3, paragraph 3, of the DPR n. 322 of 1998, provides that the statutory auditors are to be made part of the number of subjects authorized for the transmission of the annual declarations and therefore the application of the visa of conformity on the declarations transmitted pursuant to article 35 of the legislative decree n. 241 of 1997. It is also important to approve the amendment which resolves the problem of the criteria for identifying the beneficiaries of the fund for family-run and non-business bed and breakfast activities, which therefore do not require registration in the Chamber of Commerce. An amendment has also been approved which resolves the problem of the single capital charge, relating to the permanent occupations of the municipal territory made with cables and pipelines from companies supplying essential public services, which provide that the fee is paid by the holder of the concession and by the persons occupying the public land, even through mediated, through the use of equipment of the infrastructure of the concession holder. Article 6 replaces the patent box discipline which provides for the partial detaxation of income from certain types of material goods, legally protected, with a facility that increases the R &amp; D costs incurred in relation to these goods by 90 percent, thus allowing a wider deductibility for the purposes of income taxes and IRAP. In relation to the problems that emerged precisely on Article 6 and, therefore on the new discipline of the patent box, in the course of the parliamentary confrontation, the Government has however reassured that the issue will be resolved in the budget law. Article 7, Mr President, refinances with a total of EUR 100 million the fund's allocation for the granting of both Ecobonus grants for the purchase of electric and hybrid vehicles and contributions for the purchase of motor vehicles with higher emission bands as well as for special and used commercial vehicles. In the examination of the measure, the refinancing of the automotive fund on incentives for the purchase of less polluting vehicles, the so-called retrofit, was approved in order to transfer the skills related to the management of contributions to the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. Mr President, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to all those who have participated in the proceedings during these days of meetings of the Commission, to the Presidents of the Commission and, in particular, to my fellow rapporteur, Senator Laus. I would also like to thank you for allowing me to present the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Laus.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u7	Mr President, I too agree with Mr Fenu's thanks. I would like to thank the representatives of the Government, the President of the Commission, Mr Matrisciano, and Mr D'Alfonso, President of the Finance Committee. These are not formal thanks, but basically. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the majority and particularly thank them for the valuable cooperation they have been able to give their colleagues in opposition. Mr President, I would like to be able to deliver the written text of the report, and I shall now confine myself to addressing the main points.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u8	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u9	Mr Laus, rapporteur. With regard to the rules of the measure relating to the work or social area, first of all, paragraph 1 of Article 8, amending certain transitional rules recognising the application of disease treatment for employees in the private sector for the period spent in precautionary quarantine and the application, under certain conditions, for the prescribed period of absence from service for employees, public and private, so-called fragile treatments of diseases inherent in hospitalization. The amendments concern the extension to 2021 of the protection provided for in this case of precautionary quarantine, which, according to the interpretation followed, could not, under current legislation, apply to private employees for the period after 31 December 2020. It is also expected that the precautionary quarantine and the prescribed period of absence from service for fragile workers will be borne by the INPS, as well as the possibility of using the resources allocated also for events that occurred in 2020 and that had been deprived of the protection in question due to the achievement of the limit for 2020. In addition, the introduction of an appropriation of 188.3 million for 2021, which constitutes a limit on the expenditure for recognition under certain conditions of a flat-rate reimbursement for both 2020 and 2021 for private employers for the costs incurred for the recognition of treatment in those two cases with regard to cases where treatment of illness is borne by the employer and not by the INPS. The exclusion of employers and employers who are not subject to social security contributions from the INPS is also established. In particular, the cases in question concern, as an alternative between the two parents and with reference to a child under the age of fourteen and living together, periods relating to the same period of suspension of the educational activity in the presence of infection with Covid-19 or quarantine arranged as a result of contact. Regardless of the age of the child, as well as the requirements of cohabitation and use as an alternative to the other parent if the above-mentioned circumstances concern a child who is seriously disabled. Moreover, for the same hypothesis as a child in conditions of serious disability is recognized the right under consideration also for the case in which the child frequents day care centres for which closure has been arranged. Abstention may be carried out in a daily or hourly form. The relevant allowance is recognised by the INPS, i.e. by the employer's public administration. For employees the allowance is 50% of the remuneration which would have been paid, with the recognition, for social security purposes, of the figurative contribution relating to the whole pay. It should also be noted that the Commissions are proposing the inclusion of an Article 9-a for the purposes of revising the implementation of the recent rule establishing a fund for parents who are separated or divorced workers who are unable, due to the economic crisis linked to the pandemic, to be able to carry out the regular payment of the maintenance allowance. Paragraph 1 of Article 10 provides that for employees of Alitalia Sai and Alitalia Cityliner the extraordinary treatment of wage integration may also be granted for a period following the conclusion of the Commissioner's activity, by way of derogation from the principle established for the aforementioned treatments granted in relation to cases of extraordinary administration. The amendment approved by the Joint Commissions, which differs from 31 December 2021 to 30 September 2022 the scope of a transitional working rule. Under the extended provision, where the contract between the administration agency and the worker is for an indefinite period, the total duration of the fixed-term mission to a user shall not apply. It should also be noted that the Joint Commissions propose an additional article in order to allow the allocation of the Fund's resources for the implementation of measures relating to the policies active in the Fund new powers, of which the objectives are supplemented. This additional article also reformulates the provisions of the National Programme to ensure the employability of workers in relation to the provisions of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is also noted that the Commissions together propose an additional article on civil disability benefits. The intervention clarifies that the requirement of inactivity, established by the legislation on such treatment, is in any case satisfied if the income deriving from the possible work of the person does not result in the excess of the income limit for the recognition of the treatment. This is an important choice of social justice - I would like to stress this - which represents a concrete response to an injustice denounced by many families and associations. With another additional article proposed by the Commissions, it extends to accredited private health facilities, belonging to the training network of the school of specialization, the temporary possibility, already provided for by the bodies and companies of the National Health Service, to hire, on a fixed time and part-time basis, the health professionals in the course of specialization and usefully placed in specific competitive rankings. Another additional article proposed by the Joint Commissions provides for a range of benefits for workers with autistic spectrum disturbance and related employers, as well as some measures for social startups. Here, too, I would like to stress, with particular intensity, that this is an amendment that bears the signature of all the parliamentary groups, to which I thank you once again; it recognizes important tax and contributory reductions for all those innovative companies that hire as employees or collaborators, in any capacity, workers with autistic spectrum disturbance to the extent of two thirds of the staff. This will allow the emergence of realities that aim at the social and working inclusion of autistic people. Paragraph 1 of Article 13, together with Annex 1, contains a set of novelties in the rules on safety at work. The Commissions also propose a series of further specific supplements, as well as the inclusion of an additional article on safety at work in the school sector. Among the changes, I would like to point out one to which I care a great deal, which clearly sanctions the abuse and misuse of paid work with withholding payment in the absence of the necessary requirements for this purpose and which provides that, with reference to the activity of occasional self-employed workers, in order to carry out monitoring activities and counter elusive forms in the use of such contract type, the start of the activity of these workers is the subject of prior communication to the territorial inspectorate of the work competent for the territory by the client, by SMS or e-mail. I hope that this will finally be a deterrent to the abuse of these unfair forms of work. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. An amendment has been adopted which regulates the status of the person responsible. The introduction of the strengthening of the person in charge is the first step to ensure internal control that goes hand in hand with the external controls of the National Labour Inspectorate, which with this decree-law comes out enhanced for skills and number of employees. Another amendment also allows workers, business associations and trade unions to carry out specific safety training, in order to ensure that all persons in charge of internal security are trained with the most current, up-to-date and effective training approaches. I would once again like to thank my colleagues who took part in the work of the Commissions, the two Presidents, my colleague Emiliano Fenu, with whom an extraordinary and fruitful collaboration has been established, and all my colleagues and representatives of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u11	Mr President, allow me to begin my speech with a special thanks to Mr Erika Stefani, who presented the disability card today. [[Applause]] , with an inclusion measure, aimed at improving the lives of many people with disabilities, who are excluded from society. For us in the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, the defense of fragile people is a priority and I want to focus my speech on this measure. In these days the competent Commissions have worked many hours, but unfortunately, too often, from the benches of the Government to the parties has been answered: we give a secular vision. For the parties there is no secular vision, but there is a sentimental vision of politics, because we want to protect the citizens, beyond binding administrative regulations, of those who work only from the technocratic and bureaucratic point of view. Politics must give answers, and for this reason we have tabled amendments, shared not only with citizens and voters, but with civil society. In this regard, I would like to speak of an important and very dear amendment, which has been transformed into an agenda and which will be re-submitted to the draft budget law, for the protection of Alitalia and Air Italy's workers. Too often the technocracy forgets that citizens suffer if they have no certainty and certainty and for this reason we want to defeat the technocracy, bringing back the feeling in politics and the government. This is the struggle of the parliamentarians of the League and therefore I thank the Senators Augussori and Ripamonti, who in these days, together with all the other colleagues, have fought to defend the fragile workers. Senator Ripamonti, for example, with an amendment wanted to protect the citizens of Savona, but unfortunately these amendments were "disillusioned" because all too often bureaucracy is more attentive to calculations than to the needs of citizens. We criticize this and as a League we will always defend our citizens and our territory [[Applause]] , because the League is the territory, it is the citizen, also to solve what may seem trivial issues, for a government that in my opinion is too technical and should be a little more sentimental. I repeat, because yesterday the parliamentarians of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione demonstrated not only political sensitivity, but a rare feeling of belonging and for this I thank them. In order to return to Alitalia, I hope that in the budgetary debate it will be taken into account that what is now called ITA or former Alitalia represents a very important asset, which must be protected, at a time when global geopolitical balances are redesigned. The growth of this carrier is a very important need, even if I do not share how it was born, because the European Union was stepmother with Italy, a country, indeed a nation - I do not like to use the name Country to define my homeland - founder of the European Union. Starting this airline with only 52 aircraft was an outrage to our nation. I would like to remind everyone, especially now that we are going to examine the draft budget law and then the PNRR, that we are a peninsula and therefore we must strengthen air transport and port transport, as this is a requirement for the freedom of movement of all citizens. For this reason, I recommend you, gentlemen of the Government: let us remember that, at the industrial level, we must protect ITA: we wanted it and we must protect it, so that it is not flooded by other foreign parties or airlines, also to protect - and here I repeat the importance of the territory - Italian tourism. [[Applause]] We have lost so many tourists who go to Spain and France, whose governments defend their main assets. For us, the industrial plan must be fundamental. I thank my colleague Senator Doria and the friends of the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC, who have tabled an amendment to protect Air Italy's employees, who have been discovered and have no guarantee of the future. We will all go together and retable the amendment to protect these workers in the budget. An agenda has now been adopted, indicating the government's direction. I would also like to mention an amendment, for which I thank Mrs Murelli, for the protection of exodus traders, which, for a bureaucratic trick - indeed, for a bureaucratic twist - do not have the covers. They have closed their activities and do not have INPS coverage; they do not have so-called retirement. We are really talking about very few euros per month which, however, change the lives of these traders. I am referring to those small traders, often and willingly family businesses that have been put in crisis by the large multinationals that have opened shopping centres and have crushed them on their territory. That's protection. My group will allow me to consider, perhaps a little more personal than party, the income of citizenship. I would like to make a small contribution to this debate with the utmost humility. Why don't we think about a Government-Regions-Common agreement to turn citizenship income into work grants for people with need to work? I am referring to the famous socially useful works. In this way we put the person at the centre, we give him dignity and not simply assistance, as often and willingly happens with the income of citizenship. [[Applause.]] Let's put the person in the middle, let's get her to work. People need dignity. Did we approve the famous decree-law dignity? Let us give them this dignity, let us reason; mine is not a provocation. As chairman of the Social Services Committee of the Municipality of Fiumicino, when I was a city councilor in my beautiful Municipality I made this proposal and it worked: people started with fixed-term contracts within cooperatives and often and willingly were hired indefinitely and today they live a socially active and inclusive life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to refer to the remarks made by Senator De Vecchis, whom I see as committed. He said something interesting, too, from the banks of the League. I reiterate his considerations to the reasoning that we of Brothers of Italy do every day, and that this morning I am preparing to relaunch in my little, that is, that this Government of better, net of the media cash that it has, net of the rush to the applause at all costs of the regime newspapers, has not in fact given rise to measures that really affect the lives of citizens and businesses. Perhaps the only measure that changed the life of Italians was precisely, as the Senator of the League said, the income of citizenship, which we, however, unlike them, fight. It is a tool that allows a twenty-year-old boy full of forces to perceive 700 euros per month, thus discouraging him to work, and pretends not to see the disabled, forced still to a little less than 300 euros, that maybe he would like to work, penalising the latter in entering the world of work and pretending that it does not exist. Apart from that, the measures have been very elusive and inconclusive, I dare say. This is why we of Brothers of Italy, as usual, as is our style, try to deepen some subjects that can help many young people enter the world of work. This is the direction of the study that we have prepared, linked to the cost of driving licences, from which we can see and understand why thousands of jobs are lost in Italy in the field of transport. Collegi, in Italy a driver's license for heavy trucks costs from 2,500 to 3,300 euros, and to achieve it it takes six or seven months, think. Everything, clearly, to get to have, in many cases, a salary that hardly ever exceeds the 30,000 euros per year. In England, the same certification is taken in two months and costs 300 euros. This is the mechanism, in a globalized world, of which we pretend not to care. In Spain, it costs 800 euros, in Romania a few hundred euros and after a month you have a driving license. The least Italian companies that need to take Romanian drivers can do is to take Romanian drivers: it goes without saying that Italian companies continue to hire foreign workers at this time, particularly from Eastern Europe, because, as we have said, there it is easier to take a licence, and the high costs trigger a mechanism that discourages the entry into this sector by many young Italians, resulting in a very serious lack of drivers. In the Transport Committee we have tried to put in place sensible amendments on this issue. The Government has allocated a bonus of 1,000 euros for young people up to 35 years of age and a refund for those who already perceive the income of citizenship, but the incredible thing is that it has done it only for the road haulage of goods on behalf of third parties, leaving out all the other types of haulers that so cannot receive any bonuses. We have asked, therefore, to extend this bonus that can certainly be a positive incentive to the growth of the sector and that can really stand as a solution to the lack of drivers, only that you have not listened to us, therefore our proposal to extend it to all types of haulers has not been taken into consideration. We have asked for this for the tourist buses, we have asked for it for the transports of every sector, but once again - and we do not understand why - our amendments, in particular a couple, of common sense were, by ideological fury, put aside and rejected. I repeat that with regard to an issue that has nothing to do with ideology and its vision of the world, we find ourselves once again having to interface with the categories and unions bringing zero answers, not understanding why this Government continues to insist without listening to those who want to do something concrete for Italy and the result will be that thousands of jobs will be lost again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u15	Mr President, before I speak, I would like to make a general point. We know that ours is not a homogeneous majority, that the current one is a Government of national unity. Well, for this reason, it would be appropriate in my opinion - and I also believe that many others in this House - to arrive at the Commission, where politically important measures such as the one we discussed yesterday and which today is at the attention of this House, with a political balance. It is difficult to deal with divisive topics and find synthesis where two Presidents are of the center-left, in particular one of the PD and one of the Movimento 5 Stars, and the speakers are also one of the PD and one of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] Without taking anything away from the work they have done, politically it is difficult to deal with certain topics and find a balance in the solution. I say this to you, so that you report it to our President, that he acts in such a way that the Commissions, when considering matters of global interest, can be represented, as much as possible, by the majority itself. Otherwise, we arrive at moments of friction - for goodness sake, not sought - on matters which should instead find an important synthesis even before being dealt with in the Commission itself. I will not dwell on any particular speeches. I will leave that to those who will speak for the Forza Italia Group after me, Senator Toffanin, who certainly followed the whole process of manoeuvre in the Commission, until yesterday, when it was discussed globally. We have really dealt with the solution of certain specific problems with great determination and perhaps with too much impartiality. However, we had to examine the maneuver very quickly; the use of night sessions is not a good route for maneuvers, to find the right balance. Stress exists, we are not supermen, we are men (and, with my age, I can say it even more), who need, when they make decisions, to have the time to reflect. [[Applause]] We are in the Commission in order to find the best solutions, because what we are going to decide, as Mr De Vecchis said earlier, does not remain enclosed within the Senate. Mr President, what we decide here affects the lives of our citizens. [[Applause]] Then, to decide and to find solutions you need the time required. The maneuver we are examining, the tax decree, will have a great impact and would need longer times. I imagine what will happen to the budget shortly; there is also a imbalance in that area between the people who have been chosen to represent the Groups as rapporteurs and we have complained, as you know, as the President knows and as everyone knows. Yet no decision has yet been taken on the substance. The arguments I should like to consider are many; I will stop at the problem of Alitalia, which for a decade and perhaps more, however from different lustres, is present on the government's political agenda. What is sorry is that we have come to a conclusion that has been widely taken for a long time; what is even more regrettable is that workers, who must be able to regain their working dignity, are still in a position to survive with the integration fund, which is part of the passive labour policies, against which we will fight. [[Applause]] One thing is assistance, one thing is assistance in the world of work. [[Applause]] We need active policies. It is necessary to be able to reset the worker's life to a different activity and this is not only for Alitalia. In the sector, in addition to Alitalia, we have Air Italy, as my colleague De Vecchis mentioned earlier. 1,500 Air Italy workers see closed their chance to recover, even in part, their work, being the company in liquidation. These, however, cannot be treated differently from the right kind of welfare that has been given, for the time being, to their colleagues in Alitalia. We have tabled an agenda for the tax decree and an amendment to the draft budget law. We very much hope that the agenda will be accepted, because - yes - it would be a matter of justice. It is not possible for two companies, one with important interests in the public transport sector, such as Alitalia, the other in the private sector, to have two different behaviours. [[Applause]] The government should not allow this, between those who have worked in the public and without entering into the merit of the managements (unfortunately the liquidation of the society has arrived) and those who instead come from a private activity and are stripped of everything: this is not balance, President, is not social justice. [[Applause]] I really ask all parties to intervene on this, so that solidarity and fairness can be demonstrated. There are many other things that need to be taken into consideration, but I just repeat a general discourse: we need to go back to the concept of job search and not ignore the jobs that exist. The Chambers of Commerce were looking for 400,000 professionals, but there were no matching figures. This means that there is no dialogue between those who give work and those who must receive it, there is no training. Our main objective should be to cross the data between the world of work and the supply of work, without overthinking perpetual assistantism. Those who are on citizenship income and are employed, but do not have the characteristics of the company's job offer, must be trained. We spend 14 billion a year on citizenship income and unemployment measures and only one billion a year on training. [[Applause]] The Minister of Labour cannot work in isolation; he must find a synthesis with the trade union and dada world, but the synthesis can also find it in this House and he must find it also with the political world, to see if the devices he puts in place are welcome by the political subject that is Parliament, and not - as he often does - implement commercial measures that are end in themselves, consume liquidity, but do not have any effect. I believe that investing in training, continuing training at all levels, should be of interest to those who manage labour policies. Finding work - that is - would mean, for so many people that work does not have it and would like to have it, to regain dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u17	Mr President, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, if we are part of this Government, it is out of a sense of responsibility towards the Italian people who elected us as their representatives. We are here to take care of the needs and demands that come from the territories. The pandemic has not only tested the health and social situation of the country, but has completely upset its economic balance, leading to critical situations, new poor, unsustainable debt situations to which we must remedy today. In these complicated months, together with our colleagues from the Lega Group we have collected requests from the territory, we have translated them into proposals always dictated by common sense, sometimes also by the need to clarify the interpretation of rules that are difficult to understand. Well, given the need to speed up the process of approval, most of these requests have been transferred to agendas; we trust that they will be taken into due consideration by the Government in its future action and we will remember that. A theme that is particularly dear to us and for which we have always fought is that of the dismantling of the debitory folders. We have requested the remodulation of the maturity of the installments of breaking, the delay of the remaining installments, the forecast of a new break for the year 2018-2019, with the extension of the definition facilitated for the same year of the regional revenues and the local authorities, the extension of the times for the spontaneous payment of the required sums with the payment folders and the extension of the installment for the plans of delay. What Italian citizens absolutely need is a real tax peace [[Applause]] , to be able to draw a line on the past in order to be able to start living dignifiedly in the present and to come back to believe in the future. It is not possible to ask the impossible of companies that in recent years have seen incalculable turnover losses, citizens who have suffered and are still suffering the consequences of the crisis due to the emergency Covid, those who have lost their jobs or those who see their revenues considerably reduced. A Latin broker says: to impossible nemo tenetur, that is, no one is obliged to do the impossible, and a state cannot ask the impossible of its own citizens [[Applause]] , but it must put them in a position to work and realize. It is also necessary to ensure that the institutions are present alongside the people in difficulty, especially at a delicate time like this, with concrete, targeted and immediately feasible actions. In addition, in the face of economic problems such as the increase in the cost of raw materials and energy, the Government will certainly have to make a further effort in order not to frustrate the expected decrease in the tax weight. In fact, in the current year we are witnessing a cost of the electricity bill tripled compared to 2020, while that of the gas has doubled: additional expenses that add to the existing criticalities and to which we are called to respond with the necessary tools. We can't force people to choose at the end of the month whether to pay their bills or shop. [[Applause]] It is therefore a priority, in order to help businesses and families, to increase the EUR 2 billion already allocated, which is absolutely insufficient to contain these increases. A state must help businesses to restart, workers to be protected, young people to face the future with hope, fragile groups to be supported by a real policy of social inclusion. Only in this way can we really start again and give our economy and our country a real revival that does not forget and leaves no one behind. Before concluding my speech, I would like to dedicate a few minutes to Senator Salvini's amendment, approved by the Commissions, which refinances the fund for separated or divorced parents with EUR 10 million for 2022. [[Applause]] These contributions amount to a maximum of EUR 800 per month, initially designed to allow parents to continue to provide the maintenance allowance insofar as their work has been severely reduced or has even ceased due to the epidemiological emergency. From now on, thanks to the commitment of the League, these contributions will also be paid for the maintenance of children living together, as well as of children with serious disabilities. This is an amendment on which the Lega Group has committed itself strongly because it is aware that the pandemic has increased the difficulties of everyone, but above all of families with children and those who have to face the issue of disability every day; thanks to this amendment today they will be more protected. A state, before being a collector, has a duty to be fair and to meet the real needs and problems of Italian citizens. With the removal of the debitory folders we will take a fundamental first step in the desired direction to help all those people who today ask us to intervene and to do so not in a month, not tomorrow, but today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u18	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u19	Mr President, my speech will focus on a small part of what is the tax decree, not least because colleagues will be involved in this matter. I was a little abusive yesterday in the Commission. I was there because I was trying to defend, as long as I could, an amendment that I thought was strategic. What are we talking about? In the meantime, let's talk about a happy ending story, even if, in reality, how we got to this happy ending is a little more complex. We are talking about an amendment that implemented the funds, already allocated some time ago, for the reconstruction of an important infrastructure in the province of Savona, collapsed in 2018. What happened? It has happened that the Commissioner, the provider responsible for reconstruction, has had to bear some costs over time. So, he lacked a little bit of funding so that he could finally banish the reconstruction contest. We are also talking about a large number of families who have found themselves in that situation not by choice, not because there has been a company crisis, not because there has been a lack of work, but because the factory in which they worked has collapsed. There has been a great deal of general interest, as long as there has been an opportunity to draw up an amendment to implement these funds. Attention: the funds that had been found had a very clear path. They were nothing more than a shift, a change in the budget, within the expenditure chapter of the Ministry of Transport, which it removed from one side and put on the other. It's okay. Everything's perfect. What happened? Something politically inelegant has actually happened. I say this to you, Mr President, that I know that I have a sensitivity to this Parliament, as well as to the role, also because I have had the opportunity to live with you some parliamentary activities. The inelegance lies in the fact that, four hours after the possible "approval" of this amendment, the Ministry of Transport (not the Ministry of Economy and Finance, I repeat, because the money came from transport) says: look, senator of the province of Savona, you know what? It doesn't matter that you make this amendment; it doesn't matter that you've applied yourself a lot, that you've beaten yourself and that you've tried the strings to pull to bring home this result. We got this. We do an internal administrative act and, as by magic, we implement these funds. Then my question is simple and I reiterated it very strongly yesterday. In this regard, I apologise to all the Commissioners of Commissions 6a and 11a, who I kept there until 1:30 p.m. this night. I asked myself, why didn't you do it before, then? Why didn't you do it two months ago? Why did you leave more than 60 families in the anxiety of not seeing the factory built inside where they went to work? [[Applause]] Beyond inelegance, I think there's a different problem here. There is the problem of defending parliamentary activity, when it is perfectly combined with the will of the Government. Because here we are not talking about the government that does not want to make this measure. Here we are talking about the government that does not allow to approve an amendment because it asks: but why should the League name this measure? I'll make it from the inside. Maybe someone made a phone call. But I repeat, where is the happy ending? The happy end is that the decree is signed by Minister Giovannini. And the happy end lies in the fact that yesterday the President of Alphonso suggested an agenda that would commit the Minister to signing the decree as soon as possible. In conclusion, Mr President, this is a precedent that should no longer happen, because at a time when the philosophy of a Member of Parliament and that of the Government coincide on the same action, then let Parliament do it, because it has already had little chance of affecting it too many times already. At least when we have a chance to engrave, let us do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u20	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I rise to speak on Amendment 7.0.44 (text 3) which, approved yesterday evening in the Commission, saves exceptional transport and solves the deadlock that has arisen with the new rules introduced in Decree-Law No 121 of 2021, approved for a very few weeks, following a profoundly wrong amendment tabled by the Democratic Party and approved in the House of Deputies. It is a serious problem, denounced from several parts, from the world of the road haulage and that of the industry, a cry of alarm that only the League - I emphasize - has collected and with the presentation of the aforementioned amendment has tried to resolve. The rule contained in the aforementioned decree was perhaps born within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility (MIMS) with the intent to protect from the weight of the exceptional transports the road infrastructures, many of which in Italy are precarious, starting from bridges and overpass, perhaps taking reference to the collapse of the Morandi bridge, on which however - I emphasize - exceptional transports have never passed, because they were forbidden. This is, therefore, a profoundly wrong recipe. However, we need another way of protecting road infrastructure, i.e. by using ordinary, planned and extraordinary maintenance and investment, not by downloading the problem to others. [[Applause),]] Perhaps by creating a national digital construction platform within the framework of the wider European project. The League has tabled an amendment to the draft budget law, which we hope the whole Senate will be able to approve. It is a project developed with the National Association of Construction Manufacturers (ANCE), with the Politecnico di Milano, with the National Council of Engineers, with the National Council of Architects, with the National Council of Graduate Geometries and Geometries, as well as with many other associations. The norm approved in the aforementioned decree-law n. 121 of 2021 not only would have slowed down the development of the Country, just as it was already happening, not only would have compromised the realization of the many projects of new road infrastructures and not only those contained in the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, on which our Country is betting and has precise obligations of expense and time; the norm would also have frustrated the investments of the specialized societies of transport, putting on their knees and the entire field. Finally, that misfortuned rule would have determined, for the transport of the same quantity of goods, the circulation on the road of a very high number of heavy vehicles (it has been calculated about three times as much): a paradox, if you think, in time of green deal, of decarbonization, of ecological transition, in which the objective should be to reduce the pollution and the emissions of carbon dioxide on behalf of the light mobility and the heavy one. It was going exactly the opposite way. As a League we are happy that our proposal has activated reflections within the MIMS, which has done a reverse, and discussions with us proposers of the League and with the operators of the sector. In the end, we are happy that this positive solution has been adopted, which basically restores the pre-existing legislation. For four months we have achieved something more, that is that the MIMS issue the decree to adopt new guidelines after opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works and after agreement with the unified Conference, therefore with the Regions. We at the League are proud to have intervened, moving once again from words to deeds, as always says Matteo Salvini, in the interest of thousands of businesses, families and above all for the development of the country. I conclude by stressing that this extraordinary result, where the country system wins, is the result of a great teamwork of the League, not only of those who signed the amendment, but also and above all of our Legist colleagues who have strenuously defended it first in the Budget Committee and then in the Commissions combined finances and work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u23	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee on Finance and, if I may, first and foremost the members of Forza Italia within the Commission. I have seen that they have worked with a truly sacrificing approach, even with nocturnal sessions; which, in my opinion, should be avoided to some extent for the future, although I realize that perhaps this is the right image that Parliament must give to the Italians, especially those who have suffered the most during this period; that is, the image of those who are here to worry about them. I particularly thank our Vice-President of the Finance Committee, Senator Toffanin, and for my Group the tax decree is exactly the subject of the issues. Forza Italia has always, essentially since it exists, dealt precisely with the issue that concerns the reduction of the tax burden, the least possible burden of the tax burden on individuals and companies. In fact, we have always been absolutely convinced that we must strip laces and laces, not burden our freelance professionals, our self-employed workers, even employees and especially our companies. There are companies that work for the first eight months of the year only for the state and only in the remaining four months can they work for themselves. This has now become absolutely an unjust burden that does not keep the country going. The tax decree at our examination intervenes at an absolutely pathological moment in the country's life; the pandemic really put us in terrifying conditions. In particular, some companies and, in particular, their employees have suffered more than others from the pandemic. It is the reason why our representatives of Forza Italia have asked and repeated several times the postponement of the payment. We only got a nine-day delay on the deadline of 30 November, reaching 9 December which compared to the year 2022, as indeed Forza Italia had asked, is too little. However, it is clear that an effort must be made. I believe that the other forces of majority are also aware that everything that concerns the tax burden of tax on Italians must be taken into account in the first place compared to the rest. Forza Italia is also fighting for the elimination and repeal of IRAP, an unjust tax. We have dealt with these issues in the tax decree, but we will deal with them even more in the budget law. These are our fingerprints, that's what we want Italians to know. We want them to pay as little taxes as possible at this time and the postponement of the debitory records is a clear issue. Before concluding, I would like to express my partial satisfaction at an amendment by my colleague, Mrs Toffanin, Mr Mallegni and Mr Floris, on urgent measures for the partial refreshment of sports, amateur and professional associations. There is a huge sector, almost invisible, of the world of sport, which is the amateur sport, of sports that do not go on TV all the time, of athletes and sportsmen not so famous to the general public, but that represent 90 percent of the national sports world. Well, they didn't have a public or cashout during the Covid period, they didn't even partially have a chance to restore their own coffers. It was basically asked to postpone all the taxes this year to come; we asked for it for everything, but it was only partially obtained. We are partially satisfied, because it is clear that the world of politics and institutions must be close to societies, especially amateur societies, which are a substantial and fundamental part of Italian society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u24	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u25	Mr President, I greet my fellow senators and senators, but above all senators. We are about to convert the so-called tax decree, which is closely linked to the financial maneuver. Last night we discussed and voted on many of the proposals put forward by the various political groups in the Commissions meeting, where Secretary Accoto was present. Some of them have passed away, others have not and others - important - have been referred back to the next budget law or to future measures. The various measures have a proactive content and require financial coverage. In this parliamentary term we have voted on various budget laws. I would like to focus on something very important for me and I promised myself that I would propose again in every speech if it had not been carried out. It makes little sense to adopt laws if there are no implementing decrees. I remember that in the yellow-green government (in which it was present, in the role of senator, the Undersecretary Accoto), with the sharing of League, Movimento 5 Stars and all the other political groups, we proposed a measure, merged into the maxi-amendment to the bill of budget, which provided for the obligation of the exposure of the number antiviolence 1522. [[Applause]] Then a very simple implementing decree - I am glad that today a woman presides over the work of the Assembly - had to define a type of sign indicating the number 1522 and possibly the languages of communication and whatever else (size, color, etc.). If we work, but we cannot get the government to approve a very simple implementing decree of this kind, how can we expect more important measures to go ahead, even if we legislate? Last week there was also an activity in the Senate that covered the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, strongly wanted by President Casellati, which I thank for his sensitivity and to which I appeal. [[Applause]] It is not possible to be here again, after a few years, to wait for something that is already law, but that lacks implementing decree. It's a matter of civilization. We are filling our mouths with this subject and I address the senators, including those who last week spoke for each political group. It is a question of civilization and it is not possible that a senator, a male, is still here to ask that, within the framework of the tax decree, the implementing decree be promoted. It is about the face and reputation of the Members of this House that we are working so hard to enact laws. Undersecretary Accoto, President Casellati: give us a hand to try not to solve the problem of violence against women, but at least to give them a signal showing that, when we spend for them, results then arrive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u26	I acknowledge the Assembly's acceptance of the written integration of Senator Floris' speech, who spoke earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u27	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today about this tax decree, in which we have seen various proposals adopted. I would like to thank my colleagues from the 6th and 11th Commission for their work and their results. Of course, we in the 5th Commission have accompanied the work, trying to make a financial contribution to each amendment. Much has been done and much more could be done. Ultimately, it is important to achieve results and to have the issues that remain open for possible future solutions. I look at the forthcoming work and discussion of the draft budget law and I appeal to colleagues and the government to have orderly, but above all clear and clear management. Surely it will be a heavy job for everyone. My appeal is to at least try to start with the best intentions. In particular, today I would like to focus on an amendment to my first signature, which has found the consent of the Commissions meeting 6a and 11a, in a version that - although it is not in my opinion optimal - solves the question of the double IMU facilitation on the first home for spouses with different residences. Amendment 5.0.100, in the text revised by the Government, puts an end to the unequal treatment of situations that require equal treatment. I am referring to the situation of spouses who belong to families forced, especially for reasons of work, to live in different municipalities; in addition to bearing the discomfort of being in different municipalities, they are forced not to see any IMU exemption recognized. This problem has occurred in recent periods and as a result of a judgment of the Court of Cassation, contrary even to the spouses residing in two different buildings in the same municipality, who instead have retained the right to an exemption; spouses who still have two buildings, but for which there can be no business justification. In fact, the interpretation of the Revenue Agency, with its indications, had allowed the double exemption to be obtained in the past; instead, the judgment of the Court of Cassation opened the problem. Amendment 5.0.100 gives the possibility to have an exemption on a property and to choose which property to place the principal residence on. Of course - as I said before - I would have preferred to have returned to the previous interpretation of the Revenue Agency, guaranteeing the exemption of both spouses, as a result of proven working needs, for both houses of residence. But at least for the future he has put himself in order with this small amendment. However, since some municipalities have rushed to investigate, putting families in trouble and sanctioning perfectly legitimate behavior on the basis of the previous official interpretation, I hope that there will be a further sensitivity on the part of everyone to stop any recovery activity for the past years by the municipalities, in application of the good faith that has guided the behaviour of taxpayers, then penalized by the change in the jurisprudence. This is a small contribution that has been given with the conversion of the decree-law under consideration. The League, as always, is the League of Doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after countless hours of debate in the Commission, more or less heated comparisons and discussions on the substance of the various measures that we are going to vote on and which I shall be discussing in a moment's time, I think it is necessary to bring back to this House a political fact which is not irrelevant at all. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bizarre legislature, which will have to end sooner or later, we have seen different governments changing over the years, supported by various majorities. We have moved from the Count I Government, supported by the friends of the League and the 5 Star Movement, to the Count II Government, supported by the Democratic Party and by the always present pentastellates and, finally, to the Dragons Government, supported by all the forces present in the parliamentary classrooms, with the exception of the Brothers of Italy, of which I proudly belong. However - here is the political point - at these night hours I found that, in the Joint Labour, Social Security and Finance and Treasury Commissions, these balances have changed again. If, in fact, consistently, Brothers of Italy is in opposition, making constructive proposals, I have discovered, instead, together with my colleague De Bertoldi and my colleague Drago, that all this heterogeneous majority is actually as opposed to the opposition as we are. It is an inexcusable fact that many of the amendments tabled by anyone in the Commission were punctually dismissed by the Government, with the much-hidden excuse that there is no money for any substantial change in the maneuver. At this point it is possible to ask whether there is a technical government, which has nothing to do with the parties that support it, or whether there is a political government, in which however the parties that compose it have no say. Mr President, the truth is that nothing has come to the Commission but a package that has already been built in every detail, in which we - using a Christmas parallelism, which I hope will be granted - have been able to decide, perhaps, the color of the paper with which to pack it. What has emerged and which is concerned is the total detachment between the prerogatives of the Government to the tax decree and the demands, almost always rejected, that we parliamentarians have the duty to put, through the amendments. The problem, however, is that it is we parliamentarians, who live in our colleges of reference and know the needs of the territory, who know what are the real demands of those who will suffer the consequences of this decree-law. Instead, with regret, we have witnessed the impotence of political parties in front of the attacking presence of ministerial and governmental bureaucracy, capable of countering the natural demands that the country, especially at a difficult time like this, has sent us. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must have the intellectual honesty to admit that we cannot fail to see a worrying and firm will on the part of the Government not to listen to what the parliamentarians of the Brothers of Italy Group - and often also of the other parties - have loudly demanded. For God's sake, something good, especially compared to the past, has been done. We have lost track - thank God - of ridiculous measures such as the cash back that, unfortunately, someone from the Movimento 5 Stars still wanted, with courage, to propose again. On the other hand, we have read of a postponement for certain tax deadlines which would have put many taxpayers in difficulty. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are voting in this House today for a timid measure, which is still far from the needs of the country. As Brothers of Italy we have done everything we can and everything that is right to do. We have achieved the passage of a number of important amendments, such as the one supported by myself and my colleagues De Bertoldi, Iannone and Drago, to ensure that school leaders can have a shield against the civil, administrative and criminal responsibilities that the pandemic could entail because of the delicate role they play. For a long time we have argued that these figures cannot be left alone and cannot be pursued if they carry out their duty well in the application of the provisions that the Government often adopts in constant contradiction. Not only that: we have committed the Government to revise the installments for the dismantling of the folders until December 31, 2022; as well as we have managed to have another amendment approved to facilitate the possibility that the pension funds of professionals carry out activities of assistance to the subscribers during the situations of calamity or emergency. This is what we have achieved with a constructive spirit towards the country. We would have liked - through the work of the Commission - to be even more efficient and effective. We would have liked to implement our proposals able to implement some tax relief or aid, able to support Italian companies and families. However, with regret we cannot fail to declare that much more we would have wanted and had to do, but that because of the situation described above it was not possible for us to implement. It is a new missed opportunity that will fall for the umpteenth time on the shoulders of Italian citizens, that all of us should have better protected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u32	Mr President, with the approval of this decree-law, following the important work that has been done in the Joint Finance and Labour Commissions, we are going to achieve a number of important results, expected by the business world and also by many citizens. There is a mini extension of the folders: nine extra days for the payment of the split ter, balance and excavation; it may appear little, but - considering what happened and the time limits and knowing that you add even five days of tolerance - you actually arrive at the 14th of the month as an additional time to be able to pay the folders themselves. Then there is an important amendment, proposed by Senator Misiani and signed by several colleagues of the Democratic Party, which provides for the possibility of cumulation between the disability allowance and the income from work. Following an INPS circular a condition of particular difficulty and criticality had been created for many people with disabilities. Well, thanks to that amendment we are going to bring clarity back to a situation that has become objectively difficult. There is an extension of thirty days, from one hundred fifty to one hundred and eighty, of the times to settle the suspended folders during the Covid emergency and there will be even more time, until 16 January 2022, to pay the Bonari notices due between 8 March and 31 May 2020 that should have been made by 16 September or, in the case of installment payment, by 16 December, but whose collection was suspended for the pandemic. There is also an important commitment on the part of the Government on the patent box: the majority forces have asked the Government to review the news on the optional tax regime facilitated on income deriving from the use of copyrighted software and industrial patents, which had been contested by several parties, and the Government has undertaken - and we thank him - to reformulate the rule in the coming weeks in the budget law. However, I would like to focus more on the provisions in favour of workers with autistic spectrum disorders: a rule that has been approved by the Commissions and which leads to the introduction of an absolute novelty in our system, with measures in favour of innovative social startups, that is, companies that decide to operate not so much for a useful search, but for the purpose of giving work to autistic people, who would normally struggle to find a job. The measures provide for tax and contributory reductions for companies which have to hire people with autism to the extent of two thirds of all operational staff. Profits will be exempt for five years from income tax and Irap. In addition, there is a social security incentive for the entrepreneur who will then be able to pay 70% of what is due in contributory terms for a three-year period. There is also an important benefit for the autistic worker, with income that will not be taxable and with the recognition of figurative social security contributions. In this way, with the approval of this amendment, it is in fact almost totally absorbed the bill that I had presented two years ago on these issues and purposes, the result of an initiative that many colleagues will remember that was held here in the Senate in July 2019, in which two realities that operate with autistic boys, Pizzaraut and Tortellante, came here and the boys served their products (pizza and tortellini). In the meantime, I have had the opportunity to know many other realities that have this vocation, namely the objective of working so that autistic people can be included in society and above all can have a right to work. I am thinking of Banda Rolli Frulli, the Ink cooperative, located in Soncino; I am thinking of Equo Food in Sicily, in the Province of Caltanissetta; the Ethical Hotel in Asti, but also working in other parts of Italy and abroad; the Gigli del Campo, in the Province of Milan. They are all innovative realities that arise from the will of families and parents to be able to do something more for their children, because after the fifth grade in fact cease the services by the State. Autism is a reality that today involves about 600,000 Italians: one person in every 100 is affected by autism. I think any of us in here, for the numbers that exist, know people with autism, families with autistic children. The data of the INPS, which have been annexed to the technical report, tell us that in Italy to date there are about 7,600 autistic workers: practically little more than one percent of people suffering from autism today have a right to work. There are about 3,500 companies that offer jobs to these just over 7,600 people. Well, the rules that the Commissions have approved and that we are going to approve definitively these days, after this debate, tend precisely to promote the increase in the social and occupational inclusion of autistic people. In the coming years we will be able to measure the effect of these rules and we must expect an increase in the numbers that the INPS has offered us. These amendments are covered by EUR 14.333,000 per scheme; they are not few and are, moreover, accounted for more than the initial forecast: it means that the offices of the Accounting Office - I thank them for this activity - have done a very careful and thorough job of fully covering the costs of these measures. With the adoption of the aforementioned amendment, a new page is opened. In our country there are innovative paths open by families and realities that are offering their children or in any case to people with autism new possibilities, through the work that - as we know - is above all dignity. Other roads can be opened thanks to the facilities and rules that we insert in our system. It is a direct way of giving tangible and concrete support to people living in such a dimension and to their families. I would like to thank all the political groups present in this House, because everyone has signed the amendment. Everyone has shared the initiatives organized, everyone has supported the bill, but the signing by all the group leaders and their delegates, by all the majority groups but also by opposition, I think it was a beautiful and important signal, something significant, that does not happen very often. It is nice to be able to tell the Italians that on these issues there are compactness and transversality and all political forces remain in the same direction. I should like to stress this and thank all the groups once again for the way they have been spent. The measure may appear to be limited - we spoke of EUR 14.330,000 per scheme - but it has a very particular significance for the objectives it sets itself, renewing the existing legislation and introducing rules that are not there today. It allows, therefore, more Italians to feel fully part of our country, fully part of the social and economic life of the State, also benefiting from the dignity that a salary can bring. I could tell you about the experiences and events of autistic boys who, with their work, decided to buy a violin and discovered the dimension of music. I could tell you about who decides to help their family with the salary that has finally been earned. On May 1st, I attended the inauguration of "PizzAut" the first pizzeria in Italy run by autistic boys, in the presence of President Alberti Casellati, whom I would like to thank not only for that appointment, but also because the dinner of two years ago, in his presence, set in motion an important job. It was exciting to see an autistic boy sign his first employment contract. There are not many - I mentioned the numbers - the children, the autistic people who can do it; with these rules we open a new way. I think it is a choice, a political decision that we must all be proud of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u33	Thank you, Senator Begin. Let us remember the initiatives which this House has unanimously taken part in.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u35	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Senator Beginini has said. I believe that the tax decree and the budget law are the fundamental acts of a government or a parliament. We need a broad political vision, of perspective, of proposal, of growth - as we now say - I would also say freedom, of overcoming the pandemic phase and - we hope - post-pandemic, which is objectively still difficult. Other than the frayed society, as De Rita said! In some respects it is a society torn apart: friendships collapse on the division between yes vax and no vax; hatred and social envy prosper, unfortunately (together with so well, certainly); the health situation, if it is not serious, is however very serious and must be followed, normalized and enforced. Today there are forms of protest that are going beyond the norms of public order and even those of cohabitation. I think that every Member of this House, in such a large but also heterogeneous majority, can maintain a serenity and a small difference in judgment on certain facts. I am helped by President Berlusconi's intuition that motivates us to move forward and spurs the Dragon Government, but some notes and suggestions from the Senate to the Government are allowed. I am also thinking of the teachings of other illustrious people, and I want to say in this House the name of Ennio Doris, a great Italian who obeyed the principle that there is always tomorrow. Let us turn to the content of the decree-law, after the nights of the amendments, in which more or less all the Groups had something, on the basis of the different sensitivities and the representation of interests that sometimes do not coincide, but form the Italian society: on tax extensions I think that one could and should in the perspective allow it, even if it was not possible this time, because a nine-day extension is not significant. I think that those who fail to pay do not do so on purpose, but it just does not succeed, for reasons related to their own activity, the difficulty of cashing, the difficulty of making useful. Probably when you make an extension - and you had to do it in the Covid era and still - you have to think that then the deadlines double, the amounts double. Then you have to think of long and very long-term return plans, which make cash in the medium-long period for the treasury, but they also give more ease to those who have been in difficulty. A few hundred million people might be able to get away from some significant voices because of the delay in the event of further inability to pay, for example from the income of citizenship, but then restore it over the course of the year. There is the famous question of the so-called tax warehouse, of which we will go - I hope - to discuss as soon as possible, if it does not already enter the budget law, because those famous almost 1,000 billion do not exist in reality; it is 70-80 billion - it is confirmed, but it takes a measure that certifies it once and for all - for which it collects through the Agency of revenues from 6 to 8 billion; sometimes it has reached 10, but with an activity of spending and of infiltrating the very heavy offices. Some amounts are residual assets in the budget and must be collected at all costs, but the new amounts enter every year, for which it is not enough to scrap-b or a 'balance and write-off'. It takes something more, it takes a society that produces wealth. As for the tax reform that will come, which is not directly related to the debate, but in some ways it is brought into play, because, above all, economic newspapers devote articles to it and in TV talk shows it is the subject of expectations and conditioning, it generates in some cases pessimism, blocking economic activities, when we talk - for example - of 110 percent - we will talk about it in the budget - and we do not expect a return sweet, soft, against the well-known fact, from the numerary point of view, that, if they left all the 110 percent potential, the state bank would skip. So, the calculation was probably wrong. The additional regional and municipal IRPEF, for which it is expected to be converted into a surcharge, will cause problems to the municipalities which will be delayed, but above all that differ on the resolution of the rate. That is democracy: there are those who apply the minimum, who the ceiling, who an intermediate rate; on the basis of the rate, on what the citizen pays, there is political judgment. In these days - it is the subject of the meetings of President Draghi with the parliamentary delegations - there is talk of 8 billion, which are in debt, in order to finance tax reform, for which much more money would be needed if the system were in effervescence, was growing and produced wealth. As for the land register, today there is a judgment from the UPB that it is a reform that needs to be done. Probably, if we think about it, it is right that values should be adjusted fairly; but, if we do not want to tax too much and increase taxation, we probably need to reduce the rates of IMU and IRPEF. In the meantime, unfortunately, we are witnessing a political debate that does not take place in this House. I say this for titles, because we are not here to warm up the benches, like some newspapers and as a certain current mentality that spreads and that is fed to art would like to make believe. An agreement has been signed between Italy and France, of which we do not know the contents; it is true that it has secret parts and must have them, but I would be very cautious with France. There are ministers who talk about legalization of cannabis; let's decide it once and for all: we deliver the annual dose at the beginning of the year and no more talk about it. We have run the risk of not being able to say "good Christmas" these days, according to an EU provision, which also tells us that however we have to cut debt and expenditure. It's the things he's always told us. Dear energy: some action will have to be taken to eliminate that perverse mechanism, but finding funds - and billions - to finance the relief of the load on families will not be easy. We have at the door the decree-law competition: please, let us not take it out on taxi drivers, who are not a category of rich - they are not offended - but of workers. We read in an important newspaper that a senator for life spoke of the suspension of democracy and information, and it does not even scandalize anymore. I am concerned about these things, about which the economic debate is important, but on which we can find a square, we can agree by means of amendments and rules, because I see a constructive spirit in the Commissions. The opposition also plays its role, but all in all it is available at the end. I obey the motto that was the foundation of Forza Italia: in economics everything is allowed except what is forbidden, and not the opposite. Therefore, when I read or hear that, because there is the mafia, we do not do the procurement, or we delay them or we complicate the rules; or, because there are frauds, we do the anti-fraud decree, I think that citizens are all honest except exceptions, that the bodies in charge can safely discover in a few minutes. The state must generate a mentality for which growth is made with uniform and clear rules, optimism, freedom, true simplification, perhaps a little inflation. Finally, I hope that national interests will be defended, such as, for example, Made in Italy in relation to certain European standards, and that we will use golden power in the Telecom issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u36	Senator Montani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u37	Mr President, before I go into the matter, I would like to say to you that today you are chairing that I am happy with the work we have done these days in Commissions 6a and 11a. They have been challenging days and I must thank the members of the Government who have endured and supported us in those hectic hours, in particular the undersecretaries Wars and Brakes, who really have had patience, and I thank them for this. But this is not normal and should not be normal in our way of working. I believe that everything that has been debated on those hectic days in the Commissions has served to improve the measure. We want to make our contribution to improve the provision and to give a service to the country. We are well paid: while we are here, please make us express. We return, if possible, to a normality that we do not live today. In fact, even in the government that someone defines as the best, and in which objectively there are ministers very prepared, there are others that limp and struggle. However, what happened in recent years is also happening with the "best" government. There is always much going on with the use of trust (even this measure will go through the vote of confidence) and Members are not in a position to work. I therefore appeal to all political forces: let us return to our full role as parliamentarians. [[Applause]] The Dragon Government was born to fight the pandemic and cut taxes. On taxes we started from the last. The League has always had clear ideas about what to get from the decree. After majority and government have found agreement at the MEF table about 8 billion for the reduction of taxes in maneuvering, it is now urgent to lower the prices of electricity and gas bills, perhaps saving on the waste of citizenship income. Today the cost of electricity in Italy has reached record levels, while the income of citizenship, as our leader Matteo Salvini has already said, we have mistakenly approved it as it is. The League does not climb on mirrors: on paper, the income of citizenship worked with a reintegration to work, but the data of reintegration are totally bankrupt. That 9 billion spent in this way is a disincentive to work, and we in Parliament are working to eliminate some of what we consider to be unproductive expenditure and an incentive to undeclared work, but we are talking about it later. We're halfway through the opera. We're excited about the Irpef and Irap cut. We ask Draghi for more courage on the bills of light and gas, for which we need to find at least EUR 3 billion immediately. Also at the premier, we ask for the destruction of the debitory folders; we ask to raise the roof of the flat tax from 65,000 to 100,000 euros. It means helping the country. Taking away some money from the cunning citizens' income and allocating it to workers and artisans is useful and to be done. This is a very particular government, in which we chose to enter for exceptional reasons. We are paying, as a party, for this, but for us the party comes after the country. So, the half-full glass is that we saved the flat tax, the flat-rate up to 65,000 euros in turnover, and there's the League's proposal to raise the turnover ceiling to 100,000 euros for the simplified flat-rate scheme. Let us hope that this measure will find room in the maneuver. Irpef's cut is fine. Not everyone on Irap agreed. We got a tough head start, and we brought home a billion. There is a hateful discrimination between self-employed, public and dependent workers. The autonomouss suffered more during the pandemic. I hope that in Parliament we will find the space and the common desire, which has not been there, to invest in a cut in taxes and bureaucracy, especially for self-employment. Then there is the theme of the breakdown of the 2018/2019 debitory folders, which is absolutely emerging, and of the reopening of the terms for the declaration for the integration fund and for the previous dismantlings. On November 30, it risked being a day of shelter for job consultants While others care about the Quirinale, the League deals with real life. That's why we're paid. We believe that, for example, from the 9 billion canyon which is often spent on citizenship income, money can be drawn from the 9 billion canyon, for example, for cunning people, evaders, irregulars and drug dealers with Mercedes. [[Applause]] The solution is certainly not to climb 5 euros per month in the event of a lack of reception of a job proposal. Here there is a few billion to scrape and to devote to other items of expenditure. The priority for the League and Italy, instead of talking about Quirinale, is the tax cut, so I think about flat tax. To date, there are 1.9 million VAT consignments which benefit from this simplified and simplified taxation, many young people and many women; however, turnover has to be raised from 65,000 to 100,000 euros. This would mean helping millions more workers, especially young people who could leave the couch and finally begin to bet on themselves and invest in work. The theme of the destruction of the debitory folders 2018-2019 is an emergency. If someone struggled to pay the debitory folders before the Covid, figure out after a year and a half of pandemics, closures and lockdowns. The League asks to extend to 2019 balance, excavation and scraping on all the debitory folders sent; on this the resources can and must be found. The third issue we are committed to is disability. For the time being, 50 million were not found in the financial maneuver for the autism fund and this is embarrassing. There are 9 billion for the income of citizenship and we do not find 50 million euros to help families living together and fighting against autism. [[Applause]] Of course, on the next few occasions we will be tabling amendments on this battle; we will do everything we can and I want to see who has the courage to vote against it. I would like to make one last thought on this subject: increasing disability pensions by EUR 50 and accompaniment for disabled people who have a disability of between 75% and 99%, therefore for the serious and not for the very serious, which are millions of women and men in this country, would cost EUR 750 million. I would also like to draw the attention of the Senate to this reflection: do you think that you can take from the sea a magnum of the income of the cunning citizens' income that emerge and emerge every day? Meanwhile, the world laughs at us, since there are those who come to Italy once a month to collect income and then return to his country, to our face. I think real invalids deserve more attention and respect than false poor people. Let us not be silent about the fact that one of the great costs is that of expensive energy (light and gas). In September and unfortunately also in October, among the 27 countries of the European Union, Italy paid more than all electricity: we are 27th out of 27, first in this ranking on the contrary. It is an unsustainable burden for families and businesses. President Macron, dear to a part of this Parliament, speaking to the citizenship of a country with 56 nuclear power stations and essentially self-sufficient (in fact the citizens pay much less than us), has proposed a plan for the construction of new fourth and last generation power stations with zero environmental impact and zero waste. We are surrounded in the world by 440 nuclear power stations in the United States, France, Slovenia, Finland and in several other countries and by pure ideology we oppose them, condemning families to pay more than all others the bills of light and gas. I would like to take one last quick step, in closing, on the Bolkestein directive. It has been a very embarrassing decision of the Council of State that has basically told Parliament to stop doing Parliament. We in the League are not, and we say clearly and roundly, that we will do everything to protect the work, sacrifice and future of hundreds of thousands of workers in the bathing sector, trade, streetwalkers and services. It's a fourth-world sentence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u38	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I should like to begin by stressing the social importance that has had the income of citizenship for our country. Many people forget that we are in full pandemic; that measure was created to ensure a functional (truly functional) interaction between the labour market and businesses, with employment centres that did not become empty slums, just to ensure a job for even willing public employees, but we wanted to implement this system. The main aim was to give dignity to our fellow citizens who lived or lived a disadvantage. This is called dignity and democracy. We are an evolved and civilised country, recognized worldwide for its great culture and sense of solidarity and in this House we are still talking about eliminating the income of citizenship. [[Applause]] I find it anachronistic and inappropriate. I hope that the sense of reasonableness can spread among the political forces that have pointed to an element that does not touch the Movimento 5 Stars, but the citizens. I would remind you that you will touch on the dignity of those citizens who, for the most varied reasons, have been in economic difficulty. Remember that by eliminating the income of citizenship, you will touch Italian citizens. In the so-called fiscal decree-law we go to consolidate the plan to lighten the weight of the debitory folders already begun with the Government Count II. In fact, we believe that a signal must also be given to taxpayers who are still struggling with the difficult and progressive exit from the pandemic crisis. We were able to extend first from sixty to one hundred fifty days and then to one hundred and eighty days the deadline to pay for the files sent from September 1st. We first brought it to the end of November and then, in fact, in mid-December, the deadline to pay the dues of the break-up ter and the balance and cut out without losing the benefits of these facilitated definitions. A further step will be attempted in budgetary law. We have increased the number of unpaid installments from 10 to 18 before the cancellation of the benefits of installments of current folders before the suspension due to Covid. We postponed until 16 December the deadline for payment of the Bonarie Notices, the payments of which had been suspended from 8 March to 31 May 2020. Of course, there are lots that remain open and that we must finalise within the budget law. Using the increase to one hundred and eighty days of the deadline within which to pay for the documents notified from 1 September, we need to build another simplified definition. A c-break that can look at tax debts for 2018-2019 and can also look at 2020. In this respect, the Movimento 5 Stelle has tabled amendments in all the economic measures submitted in the last year and a half. With a view to simplifying and countering evasion, always in the budget law, as Movimento 5 Stars we intend to carry out an innovative mechanism of automatic credit on current account of the deductible part of some expenses, primarily health care. This is a mechanism that would have many benefits. The first would be the rate of profit of deduction, without waiting for longer time than tax returns. The second would be the contrast to anti-evasion interests, because those who spend would be encouraged to use electronic and therefore traceable payment instruments. The third would be the possibility of thinning out the famous tax expenditures that so inflate our tax system. Innovation and simplification are the keys on which we must continue to focus strongly in order to allow the economic and productive fabric to engage the recovery. In conclusion, let us not forget how much the impact of tax evasion affects the sustainability of our country; it is right to pay what is the responsibility of everyone, and I say it as an accountant as well as as a senator of the Republic, so that our country can return to being a world reference point like the other world powers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u40	The general debate is closed. As agreed at the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-384.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, December 2, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.40 a.m.
