ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u6	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to make this brief speech. Today, August 5, is the date of an important anniversary: in 1981, in Italy, the reparation marriage was abolished, which canceled the criminal effects of a rape, if the victim had consented to marry his attacker. However, it will be necessary to wait until 1996 for rape to be legally recognised as a crime against the person and not against morality and sanctioned in a more severe manner. I recall, among other things, that during this parliamentary term, a couple of years ago, a bill of mine which provided for the obligation to show the number 1522 to public establishments was translated into an amendment to the budget law, voted by the League Group and by all the political groups, also shared and signed by other senators and senators of other political groups. However, I would remind you that there is still a very simple implementing decree by the President of the Council of Ministers. I appeal to Senator Valente, President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence; to the Minister for Equal Opportunities Elena Bonetti; to our President Casellati, who has always been sensitive to the issue of the fight against violence against women; to our President Draghi: it is enough a very simple DCCM that provides for the design and implementation of a cartel to be exhibited at public establishments. The law has been voted, that's all we need: let's do it for women. I dedicate this brief moment to Franca Viola, Sicilian, who was the first Italian woman to refuse the repairing marriage in the mid-1960s. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u7	I note that the 5th Commission is authorised to convene during the general discussion to give its opinion on the amendments approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2329. The speakers, Senators D'Arienzo and Floris, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Arienzo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since August 1st it is no longer possible for the so-called cruise ships to enter the Venice lagoon on the route as it was known so far, then along the canal of Giudecca and in the basin of San Marco. This meritorious choice has avoided a serious defeat not for Venice, but for Italy, because, without it, Venice would probably no longer be the world heritage of the Organization of United Nations for Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO). The decree-law under consideration is the first sign towards UNESCO and the world that the country holds in Venice, considering it an integral part of its culture and history. In the work we have done in the Commission and which will be confirmed by this House for the second time, we are sending a message to the world and UNESCO, in particular, that we are serious about this choice and this decision. This is certainly not a simple measure, not an easy one. It is true that we have given a very positive signal, but at the same time it is a very painful choice, that impactes in an important and meaningful way on the economy of the territory, on the job, therefore on the navigation companies, on the manager of the current landing places to the marine one, on many workers, on the city and the induced one. It is certainly a painful measure, not an easy one, but a necessary one for the reasons to which I have referred. In order to reach this result, a provisional solution has been chosen, which still allows the ships from cruise to transit in the area of the lagoon, but to arrive in temporary landings in the area of Marghera, regarding which, as Commission, moreover we have intervened meaningfully. In order to realize all these participations, the current president of the authority of harbour system is appointed commissioner, with a series of times, in order to realize the temporary landing places and every other activity that impacts on the job and the concessions in order to favor such result. All this will happen by 2026. Well, the government has put in important resources to achieve this result. This is the framework in which the Commission has worked and I should like to express my sincere thanks, which are not obvious or even due to everyone (so to the Members of the Commission, the Government and all the officials), because I do not think there are any similar experiences for which, in a few days from the enactment of the decree-law, the first necessary step for final approval has been completed, at least in this branch of Parliament. We are faced with an emerging choice, for lack of choices or for mistakes that have been made in the past. Now, however, it is useless to look backwards; we look forward, in the hope that these measures will lead to the result hoped for, in particular that of safeguarding the lagoon of Venice, its history, its morphology and everything we know. As I said, it is an impacting and painful measure for the economy and for workers. We have worked on a complex balance of interests between the preservation of the lagoon, Venice and UNESCO, on the one hand and workers, the economy and the induced, on the other (in fact we speak of several billion euros of turnover). In the Commission's work, colleagues from all the groups, as I have seen from the amendments, have worked to find the best solutions to the many problems that will arise from this decree-law and our choices. I believe, Mr President, that the commitment has been fruitful, because, without changing the pillars of the decree-law (it was not possible), we have integrated it with some positive elements. We often say that we have improved it, but it is not true: we have not improved it, but we have tried to work to make that strategic choice more and more compatible with the various situations that will arise within the lagoon. I refer, for example, to the having established that the first landing places must be ready within the crocieristica season of 2022, that it could coincide with the months between March and April, just in order to avoid as much as possible that the repercussions on this aspect can continue for who knows how much time. We have worked because it is involved the current concessionaire - that it is one of those who will suffer the first impact of the choice that has been made - through a complex system that passes from the hands of the commissioner, also in the management of the temporary landings, because there is a continuity not only for the job, but also in order to take advantage of the knowhow that has now been created in that society and those workers, so that it can be placed to disposition of the ships from cruise and obviously of all those who have decided to visit our Country through Venice. We have preserved the lagoon, deciding that all choices are anchored to the sludge protocol and the morphological plane. We have asked for the possibility of further integration and expansion of studies, in order to ensure that there is an ever stronger protection of the territory. We have asked for the certainty of the procedures - which I hope we will confirm with the vote of this House - for all that will be necessary to do, with certain times (or even the most timely possible), in order to achieve the temporal objectives that we have set ourselves. Turning to the conclusion of the presentation, Mr President, I would point out that we have decided to increase the already substantial funds allocated by the Government for the relief and compensation for shipping companies, the pipeline, the current concessionaire and also for workers. It is a signal of attention - and I thank all those who have made it possible, also at the level of Government - that the Commission had asked, in order to correspond also to the many worries and requirements that had been manifested to us from those that we had audited (unions and representatives of the companies of navigation, like the Venice Passenger Terminal), that they thought that the funds were not sufficient to face this difficult moment. We have also integrated that part, and I think we should all be proud of that. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to follow the situation, because we have included in the text, with an amendment which I hope will be confirmed by this House, the forecast that by 31 March each year a report will be sent to us, through the Commission's Ministry of Reference, to see where the work is at. This will allow us to follow what is happening and see if there is a correspondence between the decision and what will happen on the territory. I would like to end by thanking again all those who have made the result possible today, in balancing the interests to which I referred (the UNESCO heritage, the history of Venice, the country, the workers and the economies). I think we have done an excellent job - the possible one, because the impossible one does not succeed anyone - in the knowledge that those interests can live together: the fact that Venice can be visited, that there is work and that there is a future for it and for the whole country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the working profiles of this Decree-Law, it is first of all noted that paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article 3 provide for the possibility of recognition of a further thirteen weeks of ordinary wage integration, with Covid-19 causality, for certain industrial enterprises. The possibility is allowed for a maximum duration of thirteen weeks, i.e. usable until 31 December 2021. This possibility of course allows employers, in general, not to pay the benefits to the INPS for terminations from work or for the reduction of their workers. In the attached technical report, which I will then present to the Assembly, the bill of conversion of this decree-law indicates how the regulatory intervention, referred to in Article 3, has been adopted in order to allow the recognition of the treatments under consideration to about 4,000 employees of Ilva and ArcelorMittal. Please note that for ordinary cash-integration treatments with causal Covid-19 no additional contribution is due by the employer. The identical amendments 3.1 (text 2), 3.2 (text 2) and 3.0.1 (text 3), adopted by the contact person, propose the introduction of a new paragraph 4-a in Article 3. The provisions in question authorize the National Agency for the Attraction of Investments and the Development of Enterprise SpA (Invitalia) to subscribe to further capital injections and to provide financing on behalf of shareholders up to a maximum of € 705 million to ensure the continuity of the productive operation of the Taranto steel plant of the company Ilva SpA. Moreover, Invitalia SpA is authorised to set up a company with a fixed share capital, within a maximum limit of 70 million euros, in order to conduct feasibility analyses aimed at the realization and management of a plant for the production of the so-called predotto. Amendment 3.0.8 (text 2), approved by the contact person, proposes to allocate, as part of the resources already allocated to the programme called Workers' Employment Guarantee (GOL), 10 million euros for 2021 in favour of access to support services for the professional relocation by employees of companies that have been placed in bankruptcy or extraordinary administration or that have been placed in cash integration extraordinary gains for cessation of business activity. A ministerial decree is required to define the arrangements for implementation. Amendment 3.0.11 (text 4) adopted by the referee proposes a number of retroactive amendments to the transitional framework on provincial pay realignment agreements in the agricultural sector and on the relevant company transposition reports. The intervention, first, is intended to be without prejudice to the effects of the company's transposition reports which concern the profile of the representativeness of the employer, even if they have not been signed by the employer, who have been signed by the business association to which the same employer is registered, provided that the same is also signatory to the provincial agreement. Second, it is possible with retroactive effect that the same company minutes, provided that they were signed by the end of 17 October 2001, could initially provide for a partial realignment period, with subsequent integration by an agreement signed before the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree. It remains firm that the provincial agreements in question could allow different modulations of transposition by the company minutes or even refer to the latter the definition of the program of realignment, provided that the minutes were or are signed before the said entry into force of the law by the same signatory parties to the provincial agreement. The following Article 4 extends to 2022 the framework already in place for the years 2020 and 2021, which concerns companies in bankruptcy or extraordinary administration and which recognises a contribution relief, upon request and subject to authorisation from the INPS, in the event that they benefit from or have benefited, in the year preceding the reference year, from specific special treatment options for wage integration. The relief consists in exempting both from the payment to the INPS treasury fund of the provisioning allowances for the end-of-term treatment of the lost remuneration due to the hourly reduction or suspension from work, and from the payment to the INPS of the contribution referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 31 to 35, of Law No 92 of 28 June 2012 and subsequent amendments, contribution related to the interruption of permanent employment relationships. The time extension in question is granted within the expenditure limit of EUR 16 million for the same year 2022, which is borne by the Social Fund for Employment and Training. It is recalled that, for each of the years 2020 and 2021, the legislation under consideration already sets a limit of the same amount charged to the same fund and that it provides for a financial monitoring procedure by the INPS, which now also applies for the limit for 2022. The extraordinary treatment of wage integration to which the reduction under consideration is linked are those granted in the last years 2019-2021, pursuant to Article 44 of Decree-Law No 109 of 2018, converted with amendments by Law No 130 of 2018, subject to agreement entered into in government and by derogation from the general limits of duration in force for the same treatment, in cases where the company has ceased or ceases its production activity and there are concrete prospects for the transfer of the company, with consequent occupational absorption, or it is possible to carry out interventions of reindustrialization of the production site. The treatments in question also include some hypotheses of extension of the same for cases in which the actions relative to the completion of the process of cessation of the enterprise and to the safeguard employment have met phases of particular complexity, also represented from the Ministry of the economic development. These are the considerations of the Commission working on the draft law under consideration. I must add that I thank my colleagues and the 8th Commission rapporteur for their commitment to overcoming the difficulties we have encountered in crossing the two laws, for different interests represented by the 8th Commission than those represented by the 11th. As far as the 11th Commission is concerned, I hope that I will be able to accept in future the recommendations of President Mattarella, who suggests presenting homogeneous arguments during the examination of the draft legislation, which I hope, in the case of the 11th Commission, will concern a review of the stratification of labour policies, both passive and active, with particular reference to training, which we believe should have a continuous aspect, so as to promote the first employment and, if this does not go well, prepare workers for a change of work, which will never happen unless there is adequate training. Some of the measures provided for in this Outplacement Act are important, but I believe that they must be linked to a number of new interventions, which I hope will have the homogeneity to address important issues such as employment, the world of work and workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u13	Mr President, with regard to this decree-law, I would like to take a little step back, because a few days ago we adopted Decree-Law No 45, that is, the one with which a competition of ideas was held. A small parenthesis: Decree-Law No 45 of 2021 provided that, within three months of the entry into force, this competition of ideas should have been made, but it does not appear anywhere that it has been done. As a result of that decree-law there were the very important statements of a heavy minister of the current Government, Minister Franceschini, who in the international press had already declared, at that time, that, following this decree, the great ships would no longer enter Venice. Instead no, because today we are to examine, evaluate and possibly vote a decree-law with which finally it is said that the great ships will no longer enter Venice. The Italian government has made a bad international figure: I personally counted 52 articles in the international press, from the "Washington Post" to the "New York Times," all focused on the element of the lack of credibility of a government that says one thing and does another. Now perhaps there is the solution, because with the decree-law today to our examination it is effectively said that the great ships (that is those that have tonnage, that is gross tonnage, beyond 25.000 GT, let alone those that have air draft superior to 35 meters and those that exceed the 180 meters of length) will not enter to Venice. Well, it is said, however, that these ships, the larger ones, will temporarily approach others. Do you know what it's like to create moorings, pull over or a sea station temporarily? Do you know what you're talking about? Then this temporaryity is so incredible, even to the same majority, that in the first order of the day, at the first signature of Senator Girotto, it is asked the commitment of the Government so that the mooring is really temporary. What are we talking about? These ships will then go to Marghera, which has a very small strip of land owned by the maritime property, but a large part of those funds are privately owned. All the compendium needs reclamation and therefore the State will take charge of reclamation at its own expense, and then return it to the owners (because it has been said "at the same time," so we make temporary use of it). Perhaps, at that point, a concession could be given for the maintenance of the seafarer. This is therefore a great deal for those who have those properties: I don't know who they are, but I think it is enough to go to the Agency for a moment to verify. It has just been said by the rapporteurs that this measure would be homogeneous. The President of the Republic has repeatedly referred to a coherent way of legislation. We are converting a decree-law, which must therefore have the crisms of necessity and urgency, so it can only be homogeneous, because they refer to a matter and a matter. In this case, we have not only the prohibition to the great ships, the creation of temporary moorings, so to speak - even if they are not - and works of adaptation for the channel, of which nothing is specified, that will necessarily involve dredgings and deepenings and not the maintenance of the status quo; in this same decree-law, in a homogeneous way, they say from the majority, however, there is also an article, that has passed a little' under trace. It has been said that we maintain the occupation of Ilva. Do you know what this is about? It would be good if everyone knew. It's about buying back our credits. Someone was selling Trevi's fountain, which is a public good. We instead in 2018 let Arcelor Mittal enter, which creates a company called Arcelor Mittal Italy. This subject is committed to producing millions of tons of steel and to maintaining 12,000 jobs in Taranto. Since this gentleman, in the face of the commitments he should have made - 2.5 billion - barely invested 390 million and production is virtually completely firm, it is clear that he did not honour his commitments so we, instead of demanding respect for the agreements, buy our credit. In Amendment 3.1, first-signed by Senator Santillo and other members of the Movimento 5 Star Group, and in the other similar amendments, we are talking about Invitalia. You will certainly remember that Invitalia is the same as the wheelchairs, the masks we all laughed about, saying that a person like that could not be allowed to continue to handle the pandemic for which he was to be expelled. Well, now you are given an assignment just as much, if not more important. Invitalia is responsible for setting up a company with share capital of 70 million euros; it will have a budget of 750 million euros to supplement what already spent and buy Arcelor Mittal Italy, that is to buy credits that were already ours. So we pay twice for the same thing, that is, we buy Ilva again. Yesterday the whole Assembly rejoiced that the CEO of Atlantia was not the same as the one who came from Aspi, but we continue to substantially admit that these companies that speculated and who misplaced continue to receive money. In February 2018, just before the elections, there were those who sang victory for the entry of Arcelor Mittal to Taranto and Jindal to Piombino. Has the Government had the ability to verify compliance with the agreements? No, the government now, instead of demanding compliance with the agreements, pays an additional 750 million euros to buy back our credit. It is the same story as Autostrade for Italy, which always repeats itself. I believe that this decree-law is in fact terribly uneven and creates a dramatic situation for those who are going to consider whether to vote in favour or not. Here it is definitely something good, because at last the entry of the great ships to Venice would be blocked, a ruin that the Unesco has forced us to review, because we would never have changed the legislative decree n. 45 of 2020. We probably would have gone on indefinitely with that idea contest. That is certainly a good part, but everything else is bad, because it is enslaved to particular interests and because it has no respect for the environment, so much so that we did not even want to specify what temporaryity consists. In conclusion, I therefore announce that I will abstain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u14	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is a wonderful country, rich in historical-cultural, natural heritage; a real open-air museum: from small villages to large cities of art, from lakes to mountains, from the sea to valleys. Every corner of our country has its charm, with its own peculiarities and its own peculiarities that make it unique places, and when these sites are recognized for their worldwide beauties, our country is increasingly valued. In this regard, as a Venetian, as a Paduan, I would like to recall the recent recognition of the city of Padua as a UNESCO World Heritage Site for the painting cycles of the fourteenth century. But if, on the one hand, Veneto, and therefore Italy as a whole, has acquired an important recognition that enhances its cultural and historical heritage at the international level, on the other, there is no lack of concern that these priceless heritages can be preserved over time. So much beauty but also so much fragility, and Venice is a striking example: a city unique in the world, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, but it has risked being included in its black list. Venice - let us remember - is also, however, seaside cities, whose primordial vocation must be protected, governed, guaranteed. At the world level, the spotlight is on what is a city with a thousand wounds, often deep, that has been sought and constantly tries to remedy with more or less effective care. Now, time for treatment and relief is not enough. We must act with another logic, with political choices that have as their main objective prevention, but also planning, strategy; and this is not only about Venice, but also about our entire country. In this sense, too, the pandemic must mark a watershed: the policies of relief and reconstruction must give way to prevention policies as regards both environmental safety and the preservation of our public and private heritage. With the decree-law that we examine the Government gives an important and courageous signal that avoids to Venice the black list of the heritage of UNESCO, but at the same time does not allow to put in place in time a serious planning in order to safeguard the role of Venice like tourist harbour reality. The prohibition - from the first August - to the ships to transit in the basin of San Marco and in the channel of the Giudecca if on the one hand preserves the artistic, cultural and environmental heritage of the lagoon city, on the other hand it implies innumerable consequences, problems, not only for the ships from cruise, but for the entire city of Venice and for all the neighboring sites in terms of GDP and occupation. We can't ignore that. The decree-law is in harmony with the policies of the PNRR, in line with the European directives that impose the environmental transition, but above all in line with what our country system asks us to do. We must start moving on, combining economic objectives with environmental ones, respecting our children, our grandchildren and those who will come after us, to whom we have a moral duty to leave a prosperous, beautiful, safe and healthy country. This being so, however, the transition is sudden, the terms are peremptory and very close. On the contrary, just now, while we are about to vote on the measure at first reading, already the ships no longer transit in front of St. Mark's Square. If the artistic-environmental safeguard of Venice through the prohibition of access of the great ships in the canal of Giudecca was not different, this decree-law solves the question of the safety of the city, but it is not the best solution for the economy of Venice and for its workers. For Forza Italia environmental protection and sustainability go hand in hand with economic and social sustainability. [[Applause]] In fact, we are moving towards a general process of transformation that involves innovation, technology, company conversion, continuing training for workers for upskilling but also for reskilling. For Venice must also mean protecting the professionalism and permanence of a very important sector. The case of Venice, as well as the question of the former Ilva and all the companies in crisis, but also of the cases of conversion, cannot yet be dealt with with with a broken vision of the world of work. We need a comprehensive reform that integrates the various mechanisms in an organic way: protection of work, training, job search, repositioning, livelihood and Cassa Integrazione. We know that every transformation involves a reversal of the status quo, which initially frightens, disorients and creates confusion. But the State has a duty to accompany the transition, also with policies of support addressed, also and especially to those who produce and give work, with the aim of encouraging training and giving the guarantee of work. The process, now in place, must be governed. The tight, too narrow times, with which the ships must leave the city, without giving the right time to realize an alternative of docking near, make sure that the companies, for 2021, hijack on Monfalcone and Trieste, leaving only six months of time to the port of Marghera in order to adapt own structures in order to be able to receive also the tourist traffic. We have a lot of concerns. Only a few months and insufficient resources allocated for 2021 to adapt the structures. The port of Marghera can hardly be already partially operational in 2022. There is a risk that other ports will become a definitive alternative, not only temporary, cutting out many economic sectors of the Venetian. The Government must, therefore, ensure that there are all the prerogatives to protect Venice and its workers, at this stage and only at this stage, even in terms of compensation, for those who will no longer work or work less. The decree, unfortunately, allocates 5 million for 2021 and 5 million for 2022 for workers not covered with the instruments already provided for in current legislation for income support, increased now thanks to the parliamentary amendment action. Unfortunately, however, the part is not well defined and the criteria and methods of using resources are defined by ministerial decree. It would have been more appropriate to define the extent of the allowance in this decree without handing it over to yet another ministerial decree, which goes to be like the bulk of the decrees not yet implemented. No one should be left behind but, at the same time, care must be taken not to make these workers other possible recipients of citizenship income. [[Applause]] No one must be left alone without the possibility of work and Venice, one of the most precious cities in the world, must not be left alone. Saving Venice does not mean removing the ships from the basin of San Marco and from the canal of Giudecca, if then you starve. Venice needs a lot more and not only to prevent it from being included in the black list of UNESCO's heritage. To save the lagoon city you have to act in favour of residentiality, against depopulation. You have to intervene to bring back in the shop windows the made in Italy or, better, the made in Venice. The arts and professions of the territory must be encouraged: Burano lace, Murano glass and all products related to Venice and the Venetian territory. Venice represents something unique in the world and for this reason it must be protected and supported. The work must be protected and supported, as this decree wants to do for Venice and for companies in crisis, but supporting the work does not only mean compensation or fund integration. It means putting in place efficient policies to share companies by combining the PNRR lines with the requirements of the enterprise system. It is a great challenge, which Italy is called to face which, for the spirit of great resilience it is endowed with, will certainly be able to ride and win, but which the Government and the institutions all have the duty to accompany. My intervention wants to be a spur for the Government so that to the decree that it removes the ships from piazza San Marco will follow immediate actions, in order to guarantee to the same ships to succeed to find a docking near in times and adequate ways and not to make to lose to Venice its indisputable raw material: the tourism and all its induced one. We hope, therefore, that support for this measure will be only the first step towards other specific measures, which will improve the virtuous actions in favour of Venice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of the decree-law that we are preparing to vote on are certainly not irrelevant. I hope and believe that, regardless of the membership of the majority of the Government, those who have at heart the destiny of Venice and its port decide to put in the future a brake to the hasty management and some times even inconclusionata that this Government in particular has decided to reserve to a delicate affair how strategic for the future of the city of Venice and of all the Italian marine transport. Well, the decree-law in question, after years of complete inactivity of the Governments that have succeeded, suddenly it literally shifts of weight - pass me the term - the great ships from cruise from the Venetian landing place to the port of Marghera. This opens up a series of reflections and creates effects, sometimes dramatic: I am referring, for example, to the consequences of employment. How not to preview compensations for the navigation companies that have already made widely present that the port of call of Marghera is not of interest of the luxury cruises? It literally puts on the knees the harbour section - it is the case to say it - sinking it, with the workers that objectively risk to go home: draft of approximately two hundred Venetian companies connected to the crocieristica put on knees, with the supply chain and all the induced one, calculated in 5.000 places of work. Marghera, as many of you know (we have unscrewed this topic in Commission), at the moment it is not even in the optimal conditions in order to be able to accept the international crocieristica. You have in no way considered alternative solutions which would have protected the environment, the needs of the lagoon, workers' rights and the interests of industrial and commercial development. The political reflection that as the Brothers of Italy Group we intend to make, not abstaining from the desire to see a more serious development than the subject, is the following. The idea that we all have of Venice is that of a wonderful city unique in the world, home of lovers, one of the tourist destinations par excellence: let's think of all the induced wedding trips, the collective imagination of the Grand Canal and couples from all over the world who come to Italy also for Venice. But Venice is not only this and says it its millenarian history, the contribution that this inimitable city has given to the history of the marine commerce, to the culture, to the transport, to its port. The one of Venice has been historically one of the avant-garde ports in the history of humanity, therefore it is and remains a port of call of the highest level. From this point of view, the port of Venice still needs a more in-depth vision, of planning, of politics; it does not need commissioners that serve only to put patches to the rips created from the inadequacy of those who have never wanted to take seriously of one of the most important Italian infrastructures and that today navigate to sight. The truth is this: with this decree-law you refer to a later discourse, hoping in you do not know which saint and without knowing what will have to happen. We ask for more for Venice; we ask for more of a decree-law tapered and hasty; we ask that all possible solutions be evaluated and weighted, so that the port of Venice does not become only the memory of a wonderful past. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u17	Senator Berruti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, last April, when the Senate was about to convert the decree-law in question into law, I had expressed the hope, like many colleagues, that it would be possible to broaden and strengthen the forecasts outlined in that forum which, across the board, we had defined as correct, but insufficient. Today we are facing a new intervention. As in April, we cannot but start from the reflection on what Venice is: a world heritage of humanity that must be safeguarded in the present and especially for the future. In this sense, the declaration of national monument of the urban waterways of Venice and, therefore, the possibility of providing for restrictions and prohibitions of transit for ships with certain characteristics are certainly an instrument. There is no escape from the fact that there are direct and indirect consequences, positive and negative, of which we must be aware and on which we have the burden and the honour of intervening. We must do so by combining the preservation of heritage, safety and environmental protection in a balanced way with the need not to harm tourism, business, work and, therefore, the whole economic front. In this sense, the forecast of refreshment measures for shipping companies and port terminal operators is useful, but - in this year more than ever - we have learned how necessary it is that these measures are timely and adequate. Moreover, there is a more general strategic theme not so much to the fact that a ship passes or not from that determined way of water, how much to which it is the strategy on Venice, on the lagoon and on a port that represents one of the hinges of the portualità North adriatica and national and, more in general, inevitably, to which is the strategy that we want to give from here to the next five-ten years on the harbour system of the Country and on its connection with the other ways of communication, from Venice to Genoa, passing for all the harbour truths of the Country and for the necessary synergy that one must have. The measure is also intended as a Commissioner. We have learned that today, as long as we do not set up another method on procurement and management for objectives, this can be - and it is - a good way to reach quickly and well what it needs, as we have been taught the story of the Ponte Morandi of Genoa and confirmed the commitment of many commissioners. Here again, it is worth remembering how important it is to be able to combine, beyond the work of the Commissioners, transparency and responsibility, overcoming bureaucratic constraints. Beyond this, what we must recall and bear in mind is that the impact of the measures planned on Venice, as well as that of the measures that in this year and a half have been put in place to contain the Covid, have an impact on the country system, on businesses, on work and on those who create GDP. Well, then, that there is still action on the processes of wage integration with Covid causal for some companies, as well as on the contributory reductions for some companies in bankruptcy or extraordinary administration. Well that they give - I repeat - soon refreshments to navigation companies and operators of the terminals of port. The categorical imperative, however, must be to do more not to stifle, out of excess of zeal, what makes the country alive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u19	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u20	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's decree-law has declared a national monument to the waterways of the San Marco basin and the canals of San Marco and Giudecca. Moreover, it has introduced provisions in order to assure the integrity, decorum and safety of the waterways of Venice, excluding from the traffic the ships superior to the 25.000 tons of tonnage (in fact, many ships from cruise). Venice is one of the most beautiful cities in the world, deserving of particular attention to avoid the damage of the wave motion, both to the banks and to the properties overlooking. Even UNESCO has not been insensitive to its charm and its fragility, in fact it has warned several times of Italy, the last on 16 July, when it decided to bring to the General Assembly the proposal to include Venice and its lagoon among the sites of the world heritage in danger. the proposal is approved and, coherently, the decision is taken to limit the crocieristico traffic in the lagoon. The decision was already in the air for a long time, but it was not thought to come so, as a lightning to clear skies, to the tourist season already begun. The pandemic has brought the economy and tourism to its knees throughout Italy, and Venice has also been an illustrious victim. However, with the start of the summer, many citizens began to see a light at the end of the tunnel and in that they answered the hope of finally getting up again. A light that this measure has unfortunately helped to turn off. Since its origins, Venice has had a decidedly unique relationship with water, which has always represented its strength and its most bitter enemy. The city and its lagoon are the result of a continuous process of interaction between man and the ecosystem, a millennial process that, since the dawn, has seen human intervention wisely combine high technical-creative skills that have allowed to realize hydraulic and architectural works in the lagoon area unique in the world, which have made Venice an authentic work of art. Like every seaside town, Venice has developed around its port that has been its beating heart for centuries and has allowed it to export its culture and its dominion over the seas to Peloponnese and Crete. Also today the economy of the city is centered on the port, so it is indispensable that the legislator and the administrators continue to wisely combine the health of the city with the life and the economy of its inhabitants. [[Applause]] If a few decades ago the industrial hub of Marghera could have been an employment outlet, unfortunately that is no longer the case. I hope that with this measure, which we have all tried to improve together in the Senate, we will once again find the best solutions to brilliantly reconcile the lagoon ecosystem with the life and economy of the residents. This will have to be done for citizens and workers. Some I have seen with tears to the eyes to refuse with pride subsidies and welfare to ask insistently only for work. Missing the objectives means deindustrializing and impoverishing the territory, perpetuating the exodus of its inhabitants to places more appropriate to the lives and work of people, means transforming Venice into a beautiful, crystallized and inaccessible place, to the detriment of the thousands of families left without work. It also means to further support the replacement of residents with rich foreigners who go to live in the houses that used to be Venetians. It must be said that the port of Venice represents one of the hinges of the national portualità and Adriatic North. It is equipped with important infrastructure and the whole tourist and commercial part gave work to about 13,000 people, including the vast network of the induced, laboriously built over the years and which has offered employment also outside the metropolitan belt. It is thought that in the 2019 season, before the pandemic, thanks to the cruise ships are disembarked to Venice approximately 1.650.000 tourists, some of which to stay also a week in the receptive structures of the city. It is a supply chain and an induced one able to move 259 million euros in the Metropolitan City, including the large foodstuffs for ships, all coming from the neighboring territories. There were also about 1,700 people involved in various activities of check-in and check-out in the port and airport, including also 500 girls and university boys seasonal to support the activities of boarding and disembarkation. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, some of these people will be temporarily unemployed, while another will see their economic capacities reduced. However, I hope that over time the measure under consideration will soothe the current wounds and be able to reconcile, for the umpteenth time, the protection of the environment and the protection of the landscape with the restart and development of the territory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u22	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with this decree-law, measures are being taken to protect the Venetian lagoon system and urgent provisions for the protection of work. I will focus on the benefits in environmental and cultural terms that could be obtained thanks to the prohibition of transit of the great ships in the basin of San Marco, in the channel of San Marco and in the channel of the Giudecca of Venice. From the first August they can no longer transit ships with a tonnage greater than 25.000 tons, length of the hull to the waterline superior to 180 meters and air draft superior to 35 meters, that they use fuel with sulfur content superior to one per thousand. The negative relapses on the crocieristico traffic are mitigated for the biennium 2021-2022 from a fund of 55 million euros; other 157 million until 2026 are previewed for the realization of no more than five points of temporary berthing in the area of Marghera, also for ships of tonnage superior to the 25.000 tons, for the maintenance of the existing channels (previa assessment of environmental impact), for accessory participations turned to improve the nautical accessibility and the safety. The decree-law was discussed in 13a The Commission was consulted and gave a favourable opinion with comments. I emphasize some of them: to ensure the integrity, decorum and safety, not only of the waterways, but also of the banks and monuments of exceptional historical and cultural value of the city of Venice overlooking the navigation channels, compared to the hydrodynamic alterations due to the transit of large boats; to promote hydrogeological and geomorphological studies of the entire lagoon, in order to plan with efficiency, effectiveness and wide vision the necessary hydraulic works; to promote preventive archaeological surveys, in order to protect and enhance the archaeological heritage of the lagoon of Venice, even before the foundation of the Republic of Venice; to provide, for the access and the exit from Porto Marghera, the regulation of commercial and cruise traffic according to criteria of adequate environmental protection; to provide for the prohibition of transit for ships that exceed the limits provided in function of the production of PM10. In this regard, however, it would be appropriate to establish such limits on the basis of propulsion powers and auxiliary motor powers, in function h24, and are not on the size of the ship. It is also necessary to predict, in order to ensure safety and avoid damage to the seabed, that the speed in the Marghera channels does not exceed 6 knots. To establish with certainty the times of the solutions that allow the displacement of the large boats outside the lagoon of Venice; to deepen the assessment of the impact that the realization of the temporary docking points can produce on the protected waters and the natural resources of the Venetian lagoon. I should like to take a closer look at some of my amendments, which entrust the Commissioner with the task of promoting hydrogeological, geomorphological and archaeological studies aimed at safeguarding Venice and its lagoon. The need to carry out archaeological investigations in the lagoon was born from an extraordinary novelty: the discovery of a Roman road and a large port structure, published on July 22 on "Science Reports" of the prestigious Nature group. The discovery, occurred along the axis of the Treporti channel, thanks to geophysical, archaeological and archival investigations, suggests settlements spread in the lagoon centuries before the foundation of the city. The road was probably an integral part of the Roman road network of north-eastern Italy. Having a complete picture of the archaeological remains present in the lagoon, as well as constituting a cultural progress, allows us to plan more carefully hydraulic works that safeguard the cultural heritage. As far as the geological aspects of the lagoon are concerned, several surveys have been carried out over time, but there is no comprehensive and exhaustive study. In addition, the lagoon falls in the three geological sheets of "Italy 1:50,000" of the CARG project (Mestre, Venice and Chioggia); but the sheet "Mestre" (Mestre) where the landing places provided by the decree-law to Porto Marghera fall, is not detected. Given the existence of many geological data, the availability of the Veneto Region and the support of the geological service of Italy ISPRA and thanks to the reactivation of funding to the CARG project with the last two budget laws, the work for the sheet "Mestre" can begin in 2022. Complete and update the CARG project makes spatial planning and strategic interventions easier, faster and more reliable, especially in such a delicate environment as the lake and lagoon; however, without further funding the CARG project is likely to crash again. The lagoon of Venice, like all lagoon environments, is then subject to a very complex morphodynamic evolution, with a very delicate balance between interment, subsidity, eustatism, tides and climate (the winds of sirocco). Of course in the case of Venice the complexity is magnified by the presence of a unique jewel city in the world. Unfortunately, to the physiological subsidity that plunges the city, it is necessary to add the exponential increase of the level of the sea due to the global warming triggered by the greenhouse gases of anthropic origin. Among other things, this puts at risk the flooding 385 kilometers of Italian coasts, with 5,600 square kilometers. At planetary level, 10 percent of the population is at risk. The climate neutrality at 2050, strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars, also in the new symbol, is undifferent. However, adaptation strategies are also urgently needed. For Venice in a few decades no Mose will be more sufficient. The worst climate scenarios predict up to one and a half meters of sea lift to 2100. But it is mandatory to protect the most beautiful coastal city in the world. We will have to think of radical structural measures. Man has always challenged nature, settling even in hostile places, most of the time succumbing. In the case of Venice, it has been able to live together for centuries with delicate and constantly evolving natural environments, creating palaces, monuments and artistic treasures, making it an economic, military and cultural power. Venice is a tangible symbol of human virtues and man's propensity to beauty. Saving Venice is an act of love that we owe to future generations, so that they enjoy this treasure chest of beauty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. As the opinion of the 5th Commission has not yet been received and as it is known that it will meet at 11 a.m., I shall suspend the sitting until 11.15 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. and resumed at 11.15 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, my optimistic forecasts have been disillusioned, because the Budget Committee met just a couple of minutes ago. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11:45 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.16 a.m. and resumed at 11.48 a.m.) Colleagues, I am obliged to suspend the sitting again until 12 noon to complete the record of the dossiers. (The sitting was suspended at 11.49 a.m. and resumed at 12.10 a.m.) I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established in the course of the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments 1,24, 4.0.11, 4.0.14 and 4.0.15 cannot be proposed because of the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law; it also declares that the agendas of the day G4,100, G4,101, G4,102, G4,103 cannot be proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u24	Mr President, I am in favour of amendments 1.9 (text 2), 1.18 (text 3), 1.22 (text 3) and on the agenda G.1100. The opinion was opposed to all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u25	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u26	Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.3 and 1.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.7 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1100. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Vanin and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.9 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.11 and 1.13 have been withdrawn. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.18 (text 3), tabled by the Joint Committees. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,22 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.24 is unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on Amendment 2.30 (text 4), because it concerns an important issue for our country, that of hydrogeological failure. Many times we also see speeches on this issue in this House and try to bring solidarity to the areas affected by disastrous events. Many times we express and express our condolences to the families of the victims of floods and floods. Before explaining the amendment, I would like briefly to mention a few numbers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u28	Senator, I'm making you talk. In fact, the amendment is a joint committee amendment, so you could only make an explanation of vote, not explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u29	SANTILLO (M5S). But it is Amendment 2.30 (text 4). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know that perfectly well, but since he's a board member... SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, text 4 of Amendment 2.30 is signed by individual senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That wouldn't be the case, but he's started talking now, so it doesn't matter. Please continue. SANTILLO (M5S). From 1922 to 2019 in Italy, economic damage to environmental disasters was estimated at 30 billion euros and 3 million people affected by calamitous events. In this country we are crying 4,000 dead, with a unfortunately positive trend in the last ten years. From 2000 to 2020 there were 45 floods and floods; one hit the Venice lagoon in November and December 2019 with one dead. Between 1947 and 1999 the events were 37, of which one hit the city of Venice and St Mark's Square, on 4 November 1966, causing three deaths. But the problem is much more complex, because in Italy there are 10 million people living in areas of hydraulic danger, 2 million buildings exposed to hydraulic risk and 900,000 activities in areas exposed to hydraulic risk. With Amendment 2.30 (text 4) we are proposing a simple thing, which seems obvious, a thing of common sense. With text 4 we propose that, without prejudice to the powers conferred by the decree, the extraordinary commissioner that we are appointing with this measure ensures the realization of the interventions in compliance with the plans of management of the waters and the plans of management of the flood risk. [[Applause]] It's a very simple thing. It would be absurd for anyone who listens to us outside this House to understand why this amendment should not have a favourable opinion and be adopted unanimously: it would be disconcerting. I would like to add that we must overcome the logic that is all too often used by the Commissioners, because then with the Commissioners we can carry out extraordinary management, when, on the contrary, ordinaryity would suffice. Yes, because management plans are ordinary. We therefore call for the Commissioner to comply with the flood risk management plan. [[Applause]] Venice and Italy as a whole must no longer cry dead from floods and floods, nor have any damage. Mr President, this is the moment when politics must show whether it is on the side of environmental protection, the protection of Venice and of the whole ecosystem, the environment and the fragile Italian territory or not. This amendment is clear, it is obvious and it is of common sense. I would ask my colleagues to read Amendment 2.30 (text 4), evaluate it and vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u31	About what? First I asked the authors to explain the amendments, now we are moving on to the expression of opinions by the rapporteur and the Government. What do you want the floor for? CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). For the explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But we have not yet moved on to the vote. I have already given the opportunity to explain. If we want to save the rules, we have opinions now. When we arrive at the article on which you wish to make an explanation of vote, you will do so. CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Then I'll make a reservation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u32	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u33	Mr President, on Amendment 2.2 (text 3) I am in favour. Amendment 2.8 is therefore either absorbed or foreclosed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u34	Sorry, but you're not the one who determines the foreclosures. Only express the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u35	D'ARIENZO, rapporteur. I am against Amendments 2.8, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12 and 2.15. On Amendment 2.21 (text 3) I am in favour, provided that the proposed amendment from the 5th Commission is accepted. On Amendment 2.22, I am calling for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendments 2.25 and 226. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 2.28 (text 3), 2.29 (text 2), 2100 and 2.32 (text 2). I am against Amendments 2.30 (text 4), 2.30 (text 3) and 2.31. I also welcome Amendment 4.1 (text 4), which the Offices propose to us to vote at the end of Article 2, because it is consistent with the subjects covered by it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That sounds right. So you want to move amendment 4.1 (text 4) to Article 2? D'ARIENZO, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. As far as the agenda is concerned, G2.1, I am only in favour of the first commitment, while the opinion is against the second and third commitment. I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda. On the agenda G2.101 I express a favourable opinion, adding the rewording: "it commits the Government to assess the appropriateness" and, in the last period, after the words: "environmental impact assessment": "according to the provisions of the current legislation on the subject and ensuring its consistency with the indications of the environmental morphological plan of the Venice lagoon and subsequent updates". On Amendment 2.0.4 (text 3) I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u36	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u39	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 2.22, as requested by the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u42	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add the signature to all the first-signed amendments tabled by Senator Vanin in Article 2, and particularly to 2.30 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u43	We haven't gotten there yet, but I take note of that. Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.10 tabled by Senator De Falco, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u46	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, Amendment 2.11 is considered to be the same as Amendment 2.2 (text 3), on which a favourable opinion has been expressed. In fact, there is no identity at all, because Amendment 2.2 (text 3) (on which I voted against) to point 3) deletes the words: I therefore insist that we vote in favour of amendment 2.11, which clearly allows the environmental impact assessment also for this intervention, given that many of the actions that are foreseen by this rule, are in fact not even well defined in their size. We talk very often (too often) of adaptation interventions, without specifying what it is; to a large extent they are real dredgings and deepenings of seabed, as with regard to the oil canal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u47	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.13 has been withdrawn. Amendment 2.14 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.100. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 2.21 (text 3) there is a request for rewording by the 5th Commission. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2.21 (text 4), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.22, 2.23 and 2.24 have been withdrawn. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.27 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.101. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.28 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.29 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.30 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u50	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, as I announced, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on Amendment 2.30 (text 4). Since amendments have been voted on to remove the environmental impact assessment on docking facilities in Marghera, the Senators of the Alternative component will vote in favour of this amendment and we urge colleagues to do the same. With the amendment, at the first signature of the Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars Vanin, it is in fact asked that the works for the docking in Marghera respect at least the plans of management of the waters of Venice. It is the least that can be done to protect Venice, especially from those who fill their mouths with environmental transition and environmental protection. We shall therefore vote in favour of the amendment and ask all colleagues to do the same. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u53	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to declare my vote in favour, after adding the signature of the amendment to the Commission yesterday. Why will my vote be in favour? It may seem an ultroneo that an official is told to comply with the laws in force, but it is not, because this gentleman, the Commissioner, is not a normal and ordinary official, but he has derogations and extraordinary powers and it must therefore be reiterated that he will have to respect these rules. Furthermore, the possible rejection of the amendment, even in an interpretative way, could have effects, i.e. it could be argued that the fact that the House rejected the amendment means that the Commissioner is not bound to comply with the rules to which Mr Santillo referred earlier. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u56	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer to Senator Santillo's punctual illustration and appeal to the conscience of the colleagues present here, many of whom have carried out, over the years, an electoral campaign in defence of the territories against hydrogeological failure, and that is precisely the issue that is specifically addressed by this amendment. Recalling the theory of separation of powers, attributed to Montesquieu, for which the power of the Government is separated from that of Parliament, I hope that other senators, such as colleagues from the Movimento 5 Star Group and others who have just spoken, can join in the vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30 (text 4), tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments.]] Co-worker, didn't the voting system work? I do not know what happened, but it should have been highlighted before the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30 (text 3), tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.32 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u60	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask Members to reflect on the vote that is about to take place, because temporary moorings are being created. The temporary nature of these moorings is underlined, highlighted and claimed by amendment 2.31, therefore rejecting this amendment means deleting the philosophy of the whole measure. If we failed this amendment to the text, we would already admit that those moorings in Marghera will not be temporary at all. Let us reflect on this, because rejecting the request to emphasize this temporaryity, which is expressed also in some agendas, means fixing the destination of use of those harbour areas in a lasting, if not permanent, manner. Attention, because these modifications must necessarily be temporary, because in order to get the ships to the area of Marghera you will have to do enormous work. However, it must be stressed at this time that moorings must be temporary and if we rejected this amendment we would say exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.31, tabled by Senator Vanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.34 has been withdrawn. As regards agenda G2.1, the Government is in favour of accepting only the first commitment of the mechanism. Senator Girotto, do you accept the government's proposal? GIROTTO (M5S). All right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1 (text 2) and G2100 will not be put to the vote. With regard to the agenda G2.101, the Government is in favour of the adoption, subject to rewording by the rapporteur. Senator De Falco, do you accept this request? DE FALCO (Mixed). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 2.0.1, 2.0.2 and 2.0.3 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.5 has been withdrawn. I would now like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.1 (text 4), tabled by the Commissions meeting, the vote of which is anticipated. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u62	Mr President, I welcome Amendment 3.1 (text 2). The opinion also supports amendments 3.0.8 (text 2) and 3.0.11 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u63	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u67	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, Amendment 3.1 is completely unrelated to the matter of Venice, because it deals with Ilva di Taranto and has a further contribution of €705 million, to be used to buy back the credit we already have. I'll explain better. In 2018 we witnessed the entry of ArcelorMittal into Italy. This company had undertaken to invest to produce a few million tons of steel and maintain 12,000 workers. To this end, it committed itself to spending up to EUR 2.5 billion, but 387 million was actually spent. Therefore the company ArcelorMittal has arrived in Italy, has the debt to the State to maintain the occupation of 12,000 people, has the debt to produce 8 million tons of steel and has invested 387 million euros. Against this, we have already bought for about 400 million and now we put another 700, so that the company ArcelorMittal will come out of Italy with an investment in its favor that allows it to go from 387 million to 1-1,2 billion without having done anything. This story is scandalous and identical, in philosophy, to the history of Autostrade for Italy. Warning: nothing changes at all. Just the five of you. Stars today, with the signature of Senator Santillo, but also the PD, with the signature of Senator Collina, you are continuing in the crazy philosophy for which the State must always pay without being able to claim its rights. Where are we? But let's be ashamed for once. It is not possible to rejoice - as was done yesterday - in the matter of a CEO: that is nonsense, while this is important. The state must demand the fulfilment by ArcelorMittal. Other than continuing to pay 1-1.2 billion for an investment of 387 million.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u70	Mr Lezzi (Mixed). Mr President, I am firmly opposed to this amendment because it conflicts with the programme agreement signed at the end of 2020 that the large amount of money should have been transferred only in 2022, i.e. when the public, Invitalia, became a majority. At this moment we are funding the majority conducted by ArcelorMittal and the Morselli. Basically with the money of the Italian citizens we are financing a multinational, apart from the Cassa Integrazione, that does not work that factory for the benefit of other locations abroad. That's the truth. We are continuing to pollute the city of Taranto and spend public money on Morselli. I have to say that the background from several newspapers, which told us about Giorgetti who was turned to the Morselli, has been favored by the whole of Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u73	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this amendment by the Forza Italia Group. There is no scandal, there is no funding for private companies: there is only funding for continuity of work, work and families for Taranto. That's the truth. [[Applause]] This is an all-in-one confrontation at the 5 Star Movimento, because there was already an agreement... [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u74	Senator Lezzi, I invite you to respect the opinions of others, as others have respected yours. [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]] Senator, stop it, or I'll have to warn you. [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]] Senator Lezzi, you're admonished. [[Applause]] If you continue like this, I will send you out of the Chamber. [[Comments.]] Everyone has respected your speech and you must respect that of others. Please, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u75	Mr President, as I said, our vote will be in favour. This is the second tranche of EUR 700,000 on the agreement for the entry of Invitalia into the former Ilva. Therefore, nothing scandalous and no gift to anyone, but only a gift to the families of Taranto who work in that plant. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u78	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, I would also like to point out that it is quite unusual for any agenda on ANAS to be declared non-existent and inadmissible, whereas a measure on Taranto and Ilva, although in part acceptable, has ample scope in the debate and in the budget. And I remind everyone that 700 million euros are not cheap. Dear President, you are always very careful about the substantive issues and I remember when, last week, the amendments relating to the court of Abruzzo were dismissed because they were not relevant to the debate. I think we need to consider this too. With regard to merit, I call on the Government to reflect deeply on what Ilva is and what it is supposed to be, as well as whether it is considered that the steel industry is truly strategic in Italy. Otherwise, it is really pointless for every two or three of us to come to this House and put patches and patches in a measure, without establishing the strategic nature of our steel industry. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u79	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.2 to 3.0.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.8 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u82	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, with the adoption today of this amendment, tabled by me and signed by all the majority forces, which I thank for the sensitivity shown on the subject, we add a further component to the construction of the policies active in our country, first of all with the strengthening of the employment centres, which provides for 11,600 recruitments. I would like to reiterate in this House that the regions should speed up these recruitments so that there is a real responsibility for our workers in Italy. [[Applause]] Then, with the Fund, new skills that I set up during my mandate as Minister, which has already enabled more than 170,000 workers to increase their skills; with the funding in the PNRR of the National Plan for the employability of workers, which provides for a further strengthening of employment centres and collaboration and cooperation with private labour services; with the Skills Enhancement Plan, also included in the PNRR; with the strengthening of dual apprenticeship and, today, with this amendment, we aim to accompany workers in the process of ecological and digital transformation in the labour market and accelerated by the pandemic. We are talking about a plan, in its entirety, of EUR 7 billion. In particular, with the approval of this amendment we take action to help workers in companies in bankruptcy proceedings, in extraordinary administration or placed in fund integration for termination, with a financing of 10 million euros, allowing them access to outplacement services for professional relocation. I shall end by thanking the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and saying that investment in human capital, training, education and retraining of our workers and young people is the real challenge of the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u83	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.11 (text 4), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u84	Mr President, given that amendment 4.1 (text 4) has already been voted on, the opinion is in favour of the G4104 and G4105 agendas, provided that the system is reworded as follows: Finally, amendments 4.0.1, 4.0.3, 4.0.4, 4.0.6, 4.0.7, 4.0.8, 4.0.9, 4.0.10, 4.0.12 and 4.0.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u85	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u86	Agendas G4,100, G4,101, G4,102 and G4,103 are unacceptable. Senator Catalfo, do you accept the proposed rewordings for the agendas G4.104 and G4.105? CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G4.104 (text 2) and G4.105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4.0.1 has been withdrawn. Amendment 4.0.3 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G4.104. Amendment 4.0.4 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G4.105. Amendments 4.0.6 to 4.0.10 and 4.0.12 and 4.0.13 have been withdrawn. Amendments 4.0.11, 4.0.14 and 4.0.15 are unacceptable. We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u87	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u88	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u89	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposed coordination C1 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u92	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we have discussed and which we are about to adopt is a fundamental step towards the protection of the Venetian lagoon system and intervenes in various areas, starting from the cultural one, to touch transport, the environment, tourism and work. This in order to emphasize the importance that they have the norms contained in the decree-law under consideration and the engagement that all the political forces have spent in order to arrive to the definitive text shared, containing improvements to the original provision, to guarantee of a patrimony like that of the Venetian lagoon and the workers of the field of the transports and crocieristico and for this I thank the colleagues of the Commission and the Government. The decree-law provides for important measures for the various operators in the sector most directly affected by the measure. In fact, the norms intervene with immediacy with the necessary protections and refreshments, aimed to mitigate the occupational impact in the field, alongside the contest of ideas, whose ban has already been published, for the next realization of points of berth out from the lagoon, in order to render compatible the tourist activity and crocieristica with the safeguard of the landscape and the environment. Moreover, providing for such measure measures that may include limitations and prohibition of the transit of ships, establishes an indispensable principle, declaring national monument the urban waterways of the basin of San Marco, the canal of San Marco and the canal of the Giudecca of Venice, patrimony of humanity, respecting and going even beyond the prescriptions of UNESCO, with the express forecast of the prohibition of transit from 1 August 2021 to the large ships, with reference to the tonnage, the length of the hull to the waterline, the height of construction and the emission of pollutants. All this in order to protect and protect the urban waterways of cultural interest from the negative consequences produced by the passage of large ships, which can put at risk the same waterways and the embankments and the properties to which they belong. In correlation and in compensation to the consequences of such prohibitions on various working fields, is established in the state of forecast of the Ministry of infrastructures and sustainable mobility a fund for the contributions in favor of the navigation companies, in relation to the greater costs incurred for the reprogramming of routes and for the reimbursements recognized to the passengers that have renounced to the journey for the effect of the same reprogramming, if not indemnified from eventual insurance contracts, as well as of the managers of the terminals of port interested from the prohibition of transit and the exhibitors the services connected to the activity of the same terminals. To adapt the area of Porto Marghera to accommodate the ships of large dimensions are previewed total participations from the Government for more than 150 million euros. In order to proceed quickly to the planning, the custody and the execution of these works; in order to realize the necessary participations to create the points of docking, to the maintenance of the existing channels and to the improvement of the nautical accessibility and the safety of the navigation, is appointed extraordinary commissioner the president of the Authority of harbour system of the North Adriatic Sea, against which we have previewed, thanks to an amendment of Italy Viva, the obligation to send to the Ministry of infrastructures and sustainable mobility, within the month of March 2022 and subsequently every six months, a report that attests the state of the art of the participations, highlighting also the criticalities found for the purposes of the transmission to the work of the same Ministry to the Parliament. We strongly wanted there to be an appreciable increase in the Social Fund for Employment and Training, precisely in order to ensure economic support for the income of workers who cannot use the existing instruments of legislation, with the wish, however, to better define the audience of those who have this right and to be able to intervene, even later, in a more appropriate way. Always with an amendment of Italy Viva has been introduced - and I allow myself to express great satisfaction and to thank the President of the Senate and the Government, in the person of Teresa Bellanova - the measure that recognizes to the concessional enterprises of the goods of the marine property and the internal navigation functional to the exercise of the activity of transport of passengers with smaller ships in lagoon waters for the year 2022 the facilitation of a tax credit to the maximum extent of 60% of the amount of the charge due on that year for the same concessions. Always ours is an order of the day with which formally a commitment is demanded to the Government to evaluate the opportunity to extend the distribution of the contributions allocated with the Fund instituted near the Ministry of infrastructures to the owners of contracts of contract of activities included in the operating cycle of the manager of the harbour terminals or however interested to interferences between commercial traffic and crocieristico, let alone to the customs shippers, to the operating enterprises in the field of the logistics and the maintenance and assistance for the passengers in disembarkation and boarding of the ships. Measures were also provided for in favour of certain companies in bankruptcy or extraordinary administration, with the possibility of a contribution relief consisting in the exemption of the provisioning allowances for the treatment of termination of the relationship, in respect of the remuneration lost due to the hourly reduction or suspension from work. There are therefore many and various measures introduced by this bill, which not only look carefully at the preservation of a unique cultural and environmental heritage in the world, as is Venice and its entire lagoon, but they are also interested, albeit in part, in a series of refreshments, reimbursements, implementation of funds to protect the working sectors concerned, to ensure companies and workers in a peaceful continuation of their activities. As Italy Viva we have committed ourselves and we are still committed to welcoming and supporting the demands that will surely come in the near future from these sectors of work, fundamental for Italian tourism and not only. We are always confident in the action of the Draghi Government and for this reason we express our strong vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u95	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, first of all I would like to make a few comments on the method, which has seen a constant chase and haste, with amendments, opinions and technical reports that were and were not in the Commissions, that were due or not due. Let's say a sort of far west, which made me think about what my mom always said, which is that the hasty cat ends up being blind kittens. We didn't get very far from that concept. I also want to make a premise for a bit of an overview of the situation and the context we are debating. Venice is the most beautiful city in the world and I do not say it because it is the capital of my Region; I do not say it because we have already intervened so many times to defend it and protect it not only from the evil of the great ships, that it seems to be the only evil, or presumed such, that afflicts Venice, but also from its proverbial inability to defend itself from natural or anthropic phenomena, like tourism or depopulation. Therefore, the call of UNESCO to put an end to the business of the great ships through Giudecca can also be understandable (who does not have heart the fragility of Venice, who more than me, cadorino-bellunese, land that has given Venice the trees on which it rests, can be attentive to its fragility and its maintenance? Venice, however, is not only a museum city, it is not only the most beautiful place in the world. Venice for the thousand six hundred years - this year the birthday of it recurs - is a port, has a marine vocation - it has always been historically - and today the port has two vocations: a crocieristica and a commercial one. Therefore, any measure that sees it subject to attention should be able to combine the attention to the fragility of Venice with the legitimate and due expectations of those in Venice who want to continue to live and make it their place of work. Compared to the call of UNESCO, assuming that you for a part of your political career have told us that Europe asks us, now that you have seen the failure of Europe, you have replaced it with "UNESCO" asks us, are you capable, for a shot of patriotic love - if you have - or even just own love, of being able to protect a good like Venice, without having to appeal to someone else? [[Applause]] Without being told by Europe or UNESCO what must we do to protect Venice? Do we realize that in the world they perceive us as those to whom to give instructions? Will they hand us a model of Venice with instructions on how to maintain it? To us? We Italians, we Venetians, who made Venice one of the most important cities in the world, take lessons today from those who still lived in the stilts, when Venice was strategic within the Mediterranean and the whole world? I imagine Marco Polo's reaction if he knew today that someone else from afar would want to impose and decide the fate of Venice. We're not here. I'm sorry. We will vote in favour of this provision, giving you a confidence that perhaps you would not deserve even, but that they deserve all those who on the port of Venice gravitate, live and deserve immediate answers. That is why we are voting in favour. But if the plan, gentlemen, is to have a new offshore port, for which you have already deliberated a feasibility study from beyond 2,5 million, that they went well as refreshments, instead of throwing them into the sea for a feasibility study for an offshore port that has no possibility to see the light, that is the contrary of the harbour vocation of Venice, you will find us here to reaffirm our opposition. We believe in fact that there are the possibilities to have a port, not necessarily with the ships that pass through the center of Venice, that - I repeat - must be protected. It would have been enough two berths, when you decided of empire not to let the ships pass from 1 August; two berths whose construction was previewed by April 2021; so you would have slowed a situation of discomfort. We have done so in the Commission, by increasing the refreshments, which are still not enough. And says the CGIA of Mestre, and not Luca De Carlo, who could be biased, even if he will vote in favour of this measure, as will the whole Group of Brothers of Italy. I believe that we have a duty to give a vocation to Venice and this vocation is not only that of a museum city, but is that of the hub of trade and tourism in the North Adriatic and Italy. This is done by strengthening the port, not with science fiction visions disguised as environmental protection. I understand that you must keep a good part of the majority, that probably does not know what the channel of Malamocco is, does not know what the Vittorio Emanuele is, does not know what the channel of the Oils, does not know all these things, but by an averse ideology of itself this issue. We believe instead to its vocation of port and the possibility that it does not abdicate in favor of other areas and other ports, that by now they are fooled hands for the inability to give a solution to this problem. The situation - as you know - is already difficult in Venice, and not only because of the pandemic, which hit everyone and especially the tourist cities; in fact, before there had been large water. The measure comes into an already fragile environment not only from an environmental point of view, but also from an economic and social point of view. We believe that this should have been taken into account. We now give a strong opening of credit on this issue to the Government, but we will be the first to monitor it, without the need for commissions and without the need for periodic comparisons. We will monitor the works, and we will do so through the Venetians, those who live Venice and those who want to continue to live in Venice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u98	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, there is a term in Venice, which was coined by the then Patriarch Angelo Scola, who said "learn Venice." It was a very used slogan that I think is absolutely correct, because learning Venice means understanding what Venice is and understanding what Venice was. To understand first of all the complexity of the management of the lagoon and of a city of certain dimensions, of a certain importance, of specific characteristics and in many ways unique worldwide. Venice has been governed over time by an absolutely forward-looking ruling class, which has had the ability to keep the opposites together as well. It had - for example - the ability to overcome radically from the cultural point of view a misunderstanding that is present here today in the House and that has been pointed out several times: the misunderstanding that Venice and the lagoon are simply a natural reserve. Now, Venice and the lagoon are a natural reserve; I say it from the non-technical-lexical point of view, but from the present naturalistic heritage. It is a unique, it is a lagoon, it is extraordinary and as such it must of course be managed, valued and treated. But Venice is also in reality always anthropized and the great difficulty and the great charm of the government of Venice and its lagoon are exactly in combining the natural reality of Venice with the reality of the place lived, of the inhabitants. It is therefore necessary to keep together the civitas, the urbs and nature, through even very complex interventions, which of course have happened over time. Our ancestors, those who ruled the Serenissima, have also done extraordinary hydraulic works and have moved entire rivers that risked making the lagoon no longer such, making it fundamentally land. At the same time they have always managed with great care the dredging of the canals and those who were in charge of the hydro-dynamic equilibrium of the lagoon had a responsibility and a very heavy power to respond to. So this is exactly the theme that arises today: how we can combine the natural uniqueness of a lagoon like Venice and its city, with the need to have a city that lives not only of the past, but also of the present and the future, considering that it is not acceptable that it has only 50,000 residents. It is not possible that the city of Venice lives almost exclusively on mass tourism and it is not possible that, at the same time, Porto Marghera, 20,000 hectares, i.e. the second largest industrial basin in Europe, lives a process of deindustrialization, without a renewal and a transition, playing - for example - on the great opportunity that can be opened with the ecological transition: I think, for example, of hydrogen and so on. Mr President, we have intervened in an attempt to overcome all ideologism, all sectarianism, all partisan vision, every ideological flag, trying to do what our ancestors have done, that is, to keep together complexity, which is exactly the task of those who say and think themselves to be political leaders. In the short term we intervened in such a way that there was immediately an increase of the refreshments to the workers and the enterprises connected to the port directly and indirectly through the induced one. It's about extra money, even if it's not enough, and we say it right away. We will therefore have to work and commit ourselves to doing so - hopefully with the support of the whole of Parliament - also in the budget law because objectively economic groups and workers are put in serious difficulties. We want Venice to continue to have a port, because for us it is not possible and it is not thinkable Venice without the port and the 'homeport. Venice is relationship, Venice has thought of the sea never as division, but as bridge and relationship. Venice is its port and we can't think of it without a port. In this direction, therefore, we imagine that we must speed up all the path already identified with decree-law n. 45 of 2021 from the Government, for the offshore port. We have asked the government, also through amendments - then in the debate it has emerged a moment of synthesis - to speed up the times, but in the meantime, in the short period we must give an answer to Venice and, therefore, we must ensure that there is really the possibility of a port of transition. Where the government says that it imagines Marghera as an area of this transition, we add that it is necessary to give powers to the commissioner in order to achieve it really, because for us the time of chatter must be over. For us, this is the time for responsible action, decision-making and project implementation. Let us therefore give to the commissioner the possibility to make, through its decisions, variants to the harbour Town development plan of Venice, that it has many lustres and that it must be revised and, waiting for its revisitation, we must give the possibility to realize these works, through the variants of the Town development plan. We give the Commissioner, through our amendments, powers of review and therefore of extension and integration of management. Let us give the commissioner the possibility, of course, of the ordinary maintenance of the canals, because I have heard statements that seem a bit lunar: it is not possible to think that in Venice the dredging and the ordinary maintenance of the canals are not carried out; there are some where the boats of the Venetians and the gondolas pass and there are those used by the vaporets of the company of the Venetian transport consortium (ACTV), that allow the Venetian citizens to move from one island to another (Murano, Burano, La Giudecca). There are rii inside the ancient city - to use an urban definition that is used in Venice - that have always need to be dredged, is the ordinary maintenance. What we propose, then, is that in ordinary maintenance the current rules apply and, when there will be to do the environmental impact assessment, as provided for in the Single Text on environmental matters (Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006), it will be done, but not when it is necessary to do the ordinary maintenance, without which the city is paralyzed. At the same time, however, the Government must assume the responsibility to define conclusively the sludge protocol and the morphological plan. The sludge protocol dates back to 1993, it was to last twelve months and only to cover the ancient city: it is still in force, but it is against European laws, in particular Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, and against the environment, because it subjects sediments - they are called more than sludges - only to certain types of analysis and not to all those that are now necessary. In the light of these elements, we have tabled amendments which have been accepted and drafted with the Government: by the end of this year we must have the mud protocol and the morphological plan, because with dredging we must know where to put the sludge to protect the lagoon and of course the citizens. Venice is not only this, but also residentiality, so we need to develop dedicated policies. Venice also means simplified logistics area (ZSL): through our amendments to the 2020 budget with the Government Count we have welcomed it and made it welcomed by the Government and now it will be presented with the definitive plan; it is a great opportunity of transformation of Porto Marghera, Venice, of all the Contermini Municipalities and also of Rovigo. Finally, with an amendment that has been drawn up by the Commission, we finally distribute and make available to the municipalities the resources for refinancing the special law for Venice, for a total of about 40 million. Mr President, time for words has run out for us and our task must be to keep together the sustainability of Venice and the lagoon, which, as we always say, is environmental, working, economic and social sustainability. We always agree in the chatter, in the operational projects we must have the ability to do so. [[Applause.]] (at 13.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u101	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, for the second time in three months we are looking at a decree on the blocking of large ships in Venice, an issue on which we have been discussing for more than ten years now. I must also acknowledge the committee. No big ships, in Venice, have done a huge job of raising awareness and initiatives all this time. It began with the decree Clini-Passera, brought to the attention also at international level. We intervene, alas, when, among other things, the UNESCO agency, after threatening it several times, was perhaps going to include Venice in the famous blacklist of the World Heritage sites at risk. We often forget, in fact, that Venice has a great deal of international attention. I agree with Senator Ferrazzi when he says that we must have an overall approach that holds together the sustainability, the delicacy of the lagoon and that wonderful system with the history, the artistic-cultural heritage and the life of the city. That's the point. The decree-law that we are examining is undoubtedly of historical scope, because from 1 August they will not be able to transit the great ships, but our worry, that we express through this explanation of vote, is that Venice needs a vision and a plan future. It's not just a matter of timing anymore. There is an absolute need not to go forward only with measures that are born as transitory and precarious, and then perhaps become definitive. We need to put in place a design: what should you keep together? It is true that it was an extraordinary project the birth of Venice, the management of the Serenissima and our history. Today, however, we are dealing with another huge problem, which is climate change, and Venice is undoubtedly one of the most exposed cities, from this point of view. At the same time, we must take care of the protection of the lagoon ecosystem, but taking into account all the impact it has on the very structure of the city. In order to have a project and a vision I think it is also necessary to question some issues. I ask myself a few questions, but I also ask my colleagues: do you think that we can continue to support a tourism model like that, which is unsustainable? We need to make sure that our wonderful cities are not a carnival: this is about Venice, because it is one of the most delicate situations, but it could also concern our eternal city, Rome, or other cities of ours. That's the problem. It is therefore clear that, as political decision-makers, it is up to us to direct different, more sustainable tourism models. This means having clear that the cities do not survive, if there are no residents: this is the problem, in Venice, as in other cities. They are not only beautiful realities where you come, you pay a ticket, you look and consume (little), according to a consumeristic idea. We must bring life back to the cities: in the case of Venice, this is one of the priorities, in my opinion. That's why I think we need a vision and an overall project. We greet the decree-law to our examination undoubtedly with great favor, because it can actually open the way to a true transformation, if we will be able to put in place a vision and a more comprehensive and comprehensive project. We must not, therefore, confine ourselves to dealing only with critical issues, which can be the transit of large ships. This means making choices: we talk about commissioner and we expect the transitional solution of Porto Marghera (unfortunately, ours is the country in which there is nothing more definitive than the provisional), but this is not good, and we say it immediately. We need to speed up in order to quickly arrive at projects for which everything is moved out of the lagoon, thereby preserving it, with all the care it entails, not only in relation to environmental impact assessments. In this regard, I regret the amendment by Senator Ferrazzi, who rightly spoke of a national monument (it is not only the waterways, but the uniqueness that must be borne in mind, as well as the hydrogeological effect). We must therefore take account of the banks, the canals, the buildings and the monuments, because it is the whole that we must bear in mind. With regard to the complexity of the matter, I regret that the House rejected it and the Government gave an opinion against Amendment 2.30 (text 4), in which it was rightly asked the Commissioner to ensure that the interventions took place in full respect of water management. Is that obvious? I do not know how much it is; I believe that in this context we must also reiterate what perhaps someone might think is obvious. From this point of view, today the decree-law will be fired, but it is necessary that we have clarity on the times for the realization of the offshore port and on the definitive plans, because Venice has waited too long. I do not think we can go any further with the idea of approximation: that is the real point. I repeat that these transitional solutions must not remain definitive, with the risk of confusing tourist, merchant and industrial traffic and with all the risks that this entails, and above all not taking due account of the hydrogeological impact of the transitional solutions, which would become irreversible at that point. We therefore need extreme caution and attention in all the necessary measures to improve accessibility. I think that perhaps we will need other decrees and interventions, but from this point of view it is essential to try really all together not to contrast values, but to put in place a design capacity and a vision that take into account the uniqueness of Venice. It is clear that we have to take care of it at all stages of transition (we say so also for the green one): for it to be fair, the transition must take on all social and employment issues. Other resources will therefore be needed, but a good first step has already been taken with the resources allocated in the decree-law under consideration to help businesses and workers. I therefore announce the favorable vote of the Senators of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u104	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have worked very hard on the issue of Venice, as my fellow Members have mentioned both in the general debate and in the explanations of vote. In recent weeks there has been another provision that has affected the Chamber and Senate Assemblies regarding the feasibility study. I start from this, from the question of the hypothesis of an external port to the lagoon, the so-called offshore port. In this regard, I believe that we must reiterate some of the concepts that are quite clear to us and, at the same time, inalienable: the offshore port is certainly important, especially for the issue of goods. Venice is one of the so-called regulated ports: it has Mose and a whole series of issues that limit its activity, as it is also right that it is (we will see it later). Having an offshore port is essential and important for the issue of goods. A little further on we have Trieste, which has characteristics opposite to those of Venice: it has so much backdrop and little backdrop, while Venice has little backdrop and much backdrop. The commitment, from this point of view, is important to us. We do not want to hear about an offshore port that concerns passengers, for example, or else we enter into a matter that has held quite a bench in recent weeks. Let me make the joke: why don't we take all the modern boats out of Venice and go back to the row boats? That would be important. We can then prevent cars from traveling on the Venice Lido and return to the horse-drawn wagons (but still pay attention, because then there is the question of animalism). We should probably use some volunteers who, like in China, drag the cart, but in this case too we should be careful about the type of person to be involved, because there is a risk of getting into a gender issue and so we would be really ruined. I say this because we have tried to drag the ships from cruise to rowing, but my colleague Toffanin, who is Veneto, tells me that there have been some problems. Even in Puglia it was attempted, but there was no possibility. Forgive this ironic digression, but we must be extremely attentive to what we do. We must act with a sense of responsibility and not with the ideology that is sometimes agitated and often injected into these classrooms. What are the ships that can enter Venice and where they have to dock? There is even a model of a cruise ship called the Venice class. It is called for the little draft, for an air draft that has a height compatible with the history and monuments of Venice, a deep draft that is qualitatively not impacting on the issue of the canals and a suitable width. The measure speaks of 25,000 tons, 180 meters and 35 meters wide: these are elements that characterize the Venice class. We are very careful what we want to do, because we can only make mistakes in Venice. What is Venice? Whose is it? Venice is a World Heritage Site. UNESCO has wandered us, telling us to stop the ships from entering and we did not let ourselves be prayed. This government has come to work and brought home a result, establishing a tonnage and size to be respected. The decree-law came into force and what happens today? The ships all went to Trieste. Let's do two accounts and take the pre-pandemic numbers: 1.6 million passengers would gravitate in the area of Venice; they correspond, badly counted, to almost 2 billion euros of turnover, which suddenly disappeared. Many take the bus and take an hour and fifty-four minutes to get from Trieste to Venice. Can you see them today, in the pandemic, the 3,500 people who get off the ship and get on the bus (which has a reduced capacity of 50 percent) to come to Venice? Where did you see them? We must bring back to Venice suitable ships that, as we have already said, have the right characteristics for that territory. We can't say: everyone at home, we joked. What do the 13,000 people who work in Marghera do? Do they scratch their heads? [[Applause]] We'll take care of it. Let's give them the money, some income, a little something. We have tabled an amendment, Mr Paroli and I, on the issue of the new employment social insurance (NASPI), for the companies that make marine transport, and we have had a commitment of the Government to discuss it in financial, so there will be a table already by the end of August. Should we take care of it? Everyone cares if you dig too much the canal, is it too wide, too narrow or throws too much wind and the tens of thousands of families must think about it Forza Italia? Yeah, okay, we'll take care of it. [[Applause]] We do not abandon them, but we want certain times. We asked for a narrowing of the working times of the docks, also because frankly on the decree-law, just arrived, there was written that the amount of 42 million, the most significant of 157 - [[Brusio]] There's a party between the banks of the League that we'll all participate in after all - it would have arrived in 2024. We pointed out then that maybe we weren't. We have therefore asked for them to be advanced and we have found a unit of intent in the Commission. However, we also wanted - and I take back the reasoning of before the billions lost regarding tourism, trade and public establishments - and had a binding agenda approved for the Government on the companies of Venice, shops, restaurants and hotels. In these weeks of work and even in this Chamber today I have heard people tearing their clothes, because the Commissioner is obliged to respect the laws: why, is there any commissioner who does not respect them? If he doesn't, he should go straight to jail like a missile. We have spent two days saying that we should write a rule asking a gentleman, who is a government leader, to comply with the law when the law already provides for it. [[Applause]] However, I did not hear anyone talking about support for companies, businesses and workers, while in the Commission we worked on a joint measure to increase support for them by 5 million. I repeat: do we have to think about Forza Italia? All right, as in the case of Ilva, which was mentioned earlier in the general debate by Mr Damiani, who sits next to me. I say to the Presidency that, in my experience, albeit a short one, in Parliament, I had never seen an article of law that was less available and less foreign to the matter of Ilva. However, if the objective is that of newco, of the 70 million for its constitution and of the 705 million for the second financing, we agree. Even on Taranto, in fact, we cannot forget that world, which is very connected to my Tuscany and Piombino. In conclusion, Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote strongly in favour of this measure. Venice is part of our heart; we have put a lot of effort into it and we will not be demolishing even in the coming months, paying great attention to this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u107	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an act for the protection of a city suspended between two blue Turks, that of the sea and that of the sky. Venice is the most beautiful city in the world [[Applause]] ), but it is also a balance, certainly not easy, between the protection of a patrimony of humanity, which can only see us all in agreement, and the economy of a city that must however be safeguarded. We agree that our national monument, which cannot be compared to anything in the world, except to itself, with its urban waterways of the basin of San Marco and the canal of Giudecca, is to be protected from wave motion or possible accidents. But we cannot even imagine that Venice is not also its citizens and its workers, which we have heard in the worried hearings, but also desperate. [[Applause]] , if soon there will be no solutions to be able to get back the great ships and all the induced that derives from it, at least in the neighboring zones. Temporary landings in Marghera must include a fast, rapid, immediate journey. We would have liked - an opening also on the appropriate neighbouring areas - and an agenda was adopted on this - to have the opportunity to speed up as much as possible (I think, for example, in Fusina). It cannot be imagined to wait for the outcome of a competition, that it previews ideas and plans of technical and economic feasibility relative to the realization and management of points of berth outside from the protected areas of the lagoon of Venice, usable from the great ships used to transport passengers of tonnage greater than 40.000 GT and from the container ships used for transoceanic transports, taking into account existing studies. How long will we have to wait for these studies to see the light? [[Applause.]] How many years will go by for the realization of this famous offshore platform? In the meantime, can we afford that the entire tourist input of the big ships is lost or transferred elsewhere? [[Applause]] Can we afford to put thousands of workers on the pavement? Venice must be saved, but together with the Venetians. Here lies the balance established by the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause]] Already today the big ships must go to Trieste, 160 kilometers away, two and a half hours of buses, when there is no traffic. It means that someone will give up on the ground and that the time available to visit Venice decreases, resulting in less consumption in the lagoon city. All the more so today, after the consequences of the pandemic by Covid, which has already brought to its knees the tourism sector and the cities of art, Venice in the first place, we cannot afford to land the ships for too long outside the areas adjacent to the lagoon city. The cruise season of 2022 cannot be absolutely lost. [[Applause]] Landings at Marghera must be ready. The Commissioner must have powers to speed up the bureaucratic process. [[Applause]] We all understood that losing UNESCO certification would be very heavy, but perhaps it was necessary to give time to organize. We have listened to those who manage the Maritime Venice passenger terminal (VTP) and the efforts made in these years for alternative solutions; the changes of interlocutor have certainly not benefited to the resolution of the problem. We have listened to the trade associations, the committees and the workers concerned about losing jobs, with the input which, in any case, generates these arrivals. We cannot turn to the other side and not look for solutions that see environmental protection, but that must not be centered on a blind living room environmentalism [[Applause]] , convinced that so much can be converted the occupation with a blink of an eye or supporting the assistantism. In the words of those workers we listened to there was no supplication for subsidies (of course now there is a need for a period), but pride and passion for one's work. [[Applause]] These are the people who ask to be able to continue working for their dignity. [[Applause]] The League, as a priority commitment, wanted to put the defense of those workers who have launched the cry of alarm and companies operating in Venice. We are pleased that, thanks to the amendments, the resources available to workers, the management company and all the related inputs have been increased. We regret that our request for an increase in gross tonnage, while maintaining the length of the hull, the air draft and the use of fuel (with a sulphur content of 0.1 per cent or more) has not been accepted, except as an agenda. These figures were not impossible to manage, but meant saving hundreds of jobs. We repeat that it is not the gross tonnage that makes the difference on the size of the ships. It could have been a signal of attention and listening to what they asked us to do. During the process in the Commission, the environmental impact assessment for each maintenance of existing channels was managed, but limited where required by legislation, essential to speed up interventions, which would otherwise have had the biblical time of bureaucracy. Venice and its history are linked to the sea, which constitutes the streets of the city: without offense to Genoa, to Pisa or to Amalfi, it is the sea republic par excellence. Its character is to have the economy founded in being port, enlivened place, with a continuous journey of people, people of various origins, where the ships stop safely. Venice has this spirit, it cannot become a playground or just an outdoor museum. Certainly this balance can and must be saved with the berths in what is today a commercial port, waiting for solutions that can see the light, but certainly not in short time. As I said before, Venice is born in a unique, precious context, to be protected and safeguarded. As a League, our commitment is to be a point of rational balance between the environment and history and its inhabitants and workers. [[Applause]] Here is the balance and pragmatism that the League and Governor Luca Zaia have demonstrated. Thus the common sense and love for Venice, the dignity and pride of Venetian workers prevailed. I would like to thank all my colleagues from the 8th and 11th Commissions, the members of the Government who have spoken at the sessions and the Presidents for the fruitful work they have done in a very short time. If something for the better has changed in this provision it is precisely for the commitment of all and for the unity of intent. The vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group for all these reasons will be in favour, but we will continue to be vigilant and not to forget Venice, its citizens and its tireless workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u110	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, everyone says that loving Venice is a very important thing, because it is one of the most beautiful cities in the world and it is so: it is unique. Today we are called to remedy years of inertia, which now create hardships and employment problems for the population, already heavily tested by more than twenty months of Covid-19 and by an exceptional flood in 2019. The positive note is that the great ships will no longer pass alongside St. Mark and in the canal of Giudecca, because the waves and induced currents were slowly changing the profile of the canals and threatening the stability of many buildings. It is a decision taken already for a decade, since the decree Clini-Passera prohibited the transit to the ships of greater tonnage than 40,000 tons. However, no one was concerned that the rules were being complied with. It was necessary for UNESCO to threaten to remove Venice from the World Heritage Sites, to wake up, even if Minister Toninelli - whom I thank for the attention he had placed on the city - had immediately activated himself for the study of possible, possible ports of docking outside the lagoon. [[Applause]] The great ships from cruise in order to arrive to Marghera Port, now, will have to cover the canal of the Oils, long 14 kilometers, that it works only in alternate one way. In order to adapt the docks of Porto Marghera, so far used only for cargo-unloading goods, work is planned to rearrange and enlarge the docks, which, among other things, will have to be electrified. It is a solution that should be provisional, but unfortunately it is very likely that no one will restore the current situation anymore. Always remains the unknown of the high sea, because the ships will not be able to enter the lagoon, with adverse hydrometeorological conditions that will obviously be accentuated by the exceptional tides and the closure of the Mose system. The tourist arrivals in Marghera are far from the maritime station: it will therefore be necessary to find solutions to bring to Marittima the thousands of tourists who will land in Marghera. In short, these are tangled and non-linear solutions, which will offset access to the historic center, to the detriment of commercial and tourist activities. However, these are necessary solutions and it was necessary to find transitional solutions. Now we are waiting to know the projects presented for a contest of ideas, to find solutions to bring the great ships out of the lagoon. It is clear, however, that the implementation of demanding and costly works will take years and will therefore be discussed in the future legislature. Waiting for the landing places of Marghera to be enlarged, the great companies will use the port of Ravenna and that of Trieste, with logistic problems for the transport of the tourists to Venice, that they will have hardly evaluable impacts on the occupation. Notable impacts will be generated by the excavation and the retreat of the docks to Porto Marghera and the passage of the great ships in the canal of the Oils. The transfer of the arrivals will have negative repercussions for the navigation companies, that they will have to be compensated of the lack of gain for the lesser tourist influx and the cancellation of the reservations, that obviously will involve also a decrease of the occupation. For the refreshment of the losses, both of the shipowners, and of the managers of the terminals, and of the workers, 40 million euros for 2021 and 30 million for 2022 have been previewed, increased thanks to amendments introduced to the Commission. It is hoped, however, that in the realization of the docks in Porto Marghera, the corruptive events of the Mose will not be repeated. When we went to the government, with the first Count Government, the 5 Star Movement, with the Commission that I have the honour to preside over, it was the first to take an interest in the city. Mose's bulkheads were installed, but there were no tests and full functionality was therefore prevented. With almost 5.5 billion spent on the work, without testing, it would not have been possible to intervene with contractors in case of malfunction. We have therefore asked that this work be concluded and that the word be put to an end. Yet, to date, the Mose has only seen its use on a few occasions, also because it is expected its activation for tides above 130 cm, very high value, and unfortunately it was not raised in 2019. To date, there is no maintenance plan, with annual expenditure of 100 million. The completion of the work, which should have taken place in 2013, was extended to December 2021. Unfortunately, in Venice, we all know that there has been a flood of scandals associated with corruption, concussion, tax fraud, bribes and illegal funding, linked to the use of docks and associated works. [[Applause]] , which were used as a crib and involved administrators and political groups, also high-level, of the right and left. Let's not pretend we don't know these things. I wonder how it is possible that the city and regional administrators, having in their hands a treasure of this magnitude, have not been able to ensure greater well-being for the entire Venetian population. Venice should and could live its endless artistic treasures, but it needs careful and far-sighted politicians. We of the Movimento 5 Stars will always try to guard the safeguard and valorization of this immense treasure. With this, I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u111	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 20 July 2021, No 103, introducing urgent measures for the protection of water routes of cultural interest and for the protection of Venice, as well as urgent provisions for the protection of work. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u114	MARINELLO (M5S). Dear President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House and the competent bodies the numerous episodes of aggression and beating on the ambulance rescuers. These are the episodes that happened in the last few days: he hits an ambulance with a baseball bat; driver of 118 shot with fists in the face, broken nasal septum; beating against drivers and rescuers of 118. There are repeated and numerous damages and attacks on a category that carries out a passionate work at the service of the country and its citizens. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u115	Colleagues, I understand the enthusiasm of leaving the House for the holidays, but we are still in session and a colleague is speaking. If we can please lower our voices. Please, Senator Marinello.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u116	MARINELLO (M5S). The driver is the exclusive operator who carries out: activities of conduction of the means of health assistance and safeguard the safety of the occupants of the means; verification of the efficiency and safety of the rescue vehicle entrusted to him; knowledge of all the sanitary devices on board; radiotelephony communication with the operating center 118, with the other means of rescue and with the emergency and emergency areas of the hospitals; gestural and luminous communication with the eliambulance; reading ability of the cartography; knowledge and use of the systems of navigation and GPS global positioning; collaboration in the intervention of health assistance in the various phases of its development; immobilization and correct and adequate positioning of the patient for the transport. From North to South there are more and more episodes of aggression, a clear sign that the danger concerns all the Italian territory. I therefore believe it is right for the institutions to highlight these incidents, also in order to continue to keep their attention to this category of workers, who during the pandemic period gave further evidence of their ability and self-denial at work, aware of the risk they were facing. In my professional life I spent thirty-three years as an emergency and emergency doctor and therefore I know very well the great work done daily by ambulance drivers. In this regard, I would also like to draw Parliament's attention to the absolute need to complete and speed up the legislative process of draft law No 1127 (Recognizing the figure and professional profile of rescue driver), deposited in March 2019, in order to regulate this figure by including important regulatory aspects, including the need to ensure adequate training, also in view of the sensitivity of the tasks performed for the recognition of the figure. These very days in the Health Commission we have incardinated the measure. I therefore hope that we will proceed quickly, in agreement with all the political forces, because there can be no divisions on these issues and the commitment must be synergistic at institutional level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u119	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, as highlighted by the Next Generation EU, the recovery of our country must necessarily be inclusive and in the name of social cohesion and territorial convergence, in order to prevent the current crisis from increasing inequalities, in all respects, between people, generations and territories. A joint reading of some peculiar characteristics of the Mezzogiorno, such as the differentiated consequences on the territory of the first series of closures (I refer to March-April 2020) and the evolution of the territorial disparities in Italy in the period following the 2008 crisis, lead us to argue that, in the absence of appropriate economic policy interventions, the gap between North and South is set to grow further. A further set of crisis response indicators suggests that the greater resilience is at Centro-Nord compared to South Italy. In short, there is a well-founded fear that the long-term effects of the crisis will be deeper and more lasting in the southern regions. In fact, the recent Svimez forecasts, contained in the 2020 report, indicate an economic recovery, already in 2021, decidedly much more marked at the Centre-North. If we look at the previous crisis in 2008, the development of the North-South gap in terms of GDP per capita shows us that, in times of recession, the most backward areas are also the least resilient. Having said that, on page 37 of the PNRR it is stated that the Government has declared the will to invest in the South no less than 40% of the resources, equal to approximately 83 billion. However, it must be pointed out that to date the investment in concrete present that is evident from the measures amounts to little more than 35 billion; I quote the studies of Professor Gianfranco Viesti, professor of economics applied to the University of Bari. The remaining measures for the South are planned for companies, on the basis of requests, and in other cases the beneficiaries will not be companies but public entities. Where there is no territorial address, however, it will be the national public decision-maker who chooses. The problem is that there is no territorial political direction for these measures. Now, given that there will be a directing booth, which will exercise the powers of direction, impulse and coordination under the management control of the Court of Auditors and since the parliamentary committees can ask the management booth to know and evaluate every useful element to understand the state of progress of the interventions, I believe it is useful to have knowledge of the initiatives that the Government intends to adopt, in order to ensure that at least 40% of the resources allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno are allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno. In this regard, I put a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, because today we are writing about the future of our country and its Mezzogiorno. Today we decide whether a father and a mother will have to get used to the idea of raising their children until the age of eighteen, then see them leave forever, looking for luck elsewhere. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-356.ana.u121	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 7 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.16 a.m.
