ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.08 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion and the Minister for the Interior will reply. Senator Magorno has the right to explain the question 3-02431 on investments in works and human resources in favour of the Mezzogiorno, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, the next generation EU programme is the most ambitious investment project that the European Union has ever put in place. A unique opportunity not only to raise our country hard hit by the pandemic crisis, but also and above all to restore centrality to Italy in the international economic panorama. In this context, it is also particularly important to relaunch the Mezzogiorno, starting with the use of these resources to bridge the North-South divide, as requested by Europe. Mrs. Minister, we appreciate your attention and thank you for your valuable work and for the willingness with which you have received and listened to the delegation of the mayors of Recovery South, but we are now waiting for concrete measures from the Government and for the South to be given what is due to you. A South which has for years been strongly unbalanced with respect to the Centre-North on the economic, productive, social and, as we have unfortunately been able to ascertain in recent months, also health care. An example among the many is my Region, Calabria and, in particular, the province of Cosenza, which in these days lives the worst moment from the explosion of the pandemic, with a significant and increasing increase of the contagions and deaths. A two-speed Italy, with a Mezzogiorno increasingly distant from the rest of the country, is no longer sustainable for the financial stability of the country, nor justifiable in the light of the huge resources that will be allocated to the South and especially for its strategic geographical position in the European and international context. Moreover, it is clear that the recruitment plan planned for the municipalities of the South is clearly insufficient to strengthen their bodies; certainly there are innovative projects that, if properly implemented and valued, could really allow lasting development for the future of the country. However it is opportune that the recovery plan includes to its inside ulterior fundamental plans for the throw again of the Mezzogiorno, like the strategic potenziamento of the port of Gioia Tauro and the valorization of the territories through a plan of assumptions in the public administration addressed mainly to the small Municipalities of the Mezzogiorno, that they have been excluded from the plan of the assumptions. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to conclude by asking what other initiatives you intend to promote in order to remedy the gap between North and South and to ensure that the Mezzogiorno can become the flywheel of a new development. I would also ask you whether Minister Brunetta, by providing for an increase in the number and profiles employed, will give the possibility to activate conventions with professional bodies and universities to support the local authorities of the South and to bring them up to speed with the rest of the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned several times, the previous version of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan lacked an explicit chapter dedicated to the South and made the Mezzogiorno a cross-cutting objective in the planning of the PNRR. In order for this transversality not to be elusive of the Mezzogiorno problem, in the current new version of the PNRR there will be a real South chapter. In the unified conference, which I will shortly be attending, I will be able to devote more time to illustrating the value of the South quota included within the Plan. One qualifying novelty that we have introduced in the new version of the plan is the reform and its investments in the special economic zones. The measure foresees a package of interventions for 600 million euros for the infrastructures of the retroportuali and connected areas, a robust administrative simplification and a more intense incentive for the investments in the capital goods. This line of action was not included in the previous draft of the plan. Among the main interventions on which then the Ministry for the South is focusing its attention are the so-called ecosystems of innovation. To the 1.3 billion planned on a national basis by the Ministry of University and Research, and therefore in part to be territorialized in the South, we add, with the component special interventions of cohesion, an additional 350 million. The aim is to replicate on several areas of the Mezzogiorno the virtuous and positive example of the innovation pole of San Giovanni a Teduccio, where research and innovative companies are really changing the fate of a difficult territory. These and other investments require - it is undeniable - efficient public administration. In this respect, I am aware that the selective procedure which has just been initiated with Minister Brunetta to recruit 2,800 technicians in the Mezzogiorno is only a first step, although significant. You will not have missed the adoption of a flash procedure through a single national competition that will allow us to assume, within a hundred days, these 2,800 young professionals who will strengthen the design capacity of the administrations of the South, which from this point of view are more lacking and deficit compared to the administrations of the Centre-North. Of course, the immediate next goal, which we are working in synergy with Minister Brunetta, is to put in place in a short time further interventions on various fronts, both stable and as support for specific development actions for the South.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u6	I give the floor to Senator Vono to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and comprehensive reply. The Ministry that you represent, Madam Minister, is very important in the effective planning of productivity objectives that lead the entire Mezzogiorno of Italy to get out of a welfare condition now become chronic. Developing the capacity to attract domestic and international private investment is essential to generate income, create jobs, reverse demographic decline and depopulation, especially in internal areas. The South offers an infinite range of opportunities, much more articulated than a simple seasonal tourism, that so far has penalized the entire entrepreneurial offer present in this part of Italy, forcing also the best resources to escape from the working isolation, exauterating the potential of our territories that, without youth and ideas of renewal have lost over the years also the strength to self-support, focusing on the existing. The only goal we share with you is to give back to South Italy that cultural and economic cohesion that can be achieved today with a careful use of the recovery plan. We believe that, from this point of view, fair political cooperation is the only key to regaining the credibility we deserve, not only throughout Italy but also globally.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u8	Senator Pittella has the right to explain the question 3-02430 on the realization of kindergartens for children in the South, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u9	Mr President, kindly Minister, Mr Dario Stefano and myself, on behalf of the PD Group, are putting their finger on the scourge with this question. I say, without rhetoric, that the presence of kindergartens in the Mezzogiorno is the plague and, perhaps, the most significant and dramatic element of the rift of Italy. It is the element that hinders the growth of the Mezzogiorno, which negatively affects the cognitive, relational, human development of the child in the Mezzogiorno and hinders gender equality, because it penalises women in particular. We are far from achieving the European objectives of Barcelona: guaranteeing at least 33% of children under three years of age a place in kindergarten or early childhood services. In the Mezzogiorno and inland areas of the Mezzogiorno this distance is even more dramatic. There is no more effective measure, to decrypt the degree of civilization of a people, of a widespread, adequate and free network of nests and childcare services. The pandemic has seriously aggravated this deficiency. I am well aware that it is in your sensitivity and in that of the Government that this question is being raised, and that is why we are asking you, Mr Stefano and the PD Group, for a strong and decisive political initiative, to use the fund provided for in the Budget Act 2020 and to provide the PNRR with a specific implementing measure to strengthen the network of kindergartens in the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u10	The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget law for 2020 financed, through the establishment of the Fund for Nursing and Children's Schools, projects for the construction, renovation, safety and retraining of kindergartens and nursery schools, with priority for facilities located in the disadvantaged areas of the country and in the urban outskirts. I would point out that, at the time, the Minister for the South was not included among the Concerting Ministers to establish, among other things, the criteria for allocating the methods of using those resources, despite, among the main objectives of the provision, there was, not only the improvement of the framework of the disadvantaged areas, but also the reduction of territorial imbalances, which is the primary task of the Ministry for the South. For this reason, I assure the honourable Members that although I have not been able to participate in the choices on the concrete allocation of resources provided for by that Fund, I have requested and obtained timely reassurance from the Ministry of Education that, to the disadvantaged areas of which the South represents the majority, a percentage not less than 60% of all interventions have been allocated. This reserve does not exclude that the Municipalities of the Mezzogiorno can contribute to the allocation of total resources even of the remaining 40%. In this respect, I would like to reiterate here my desire, already expressed to the Concerting Ministers, to intervene as soon as possible with a legislative amendment, including the Minister for the South among the members of the steering booth set up for monitoring the state of implementation of the projects. In this way, when the measures are being implemented in practice, I will be able to become aware of what will actually be allocated to the Mezzogiorno. Alongside this, in the next few days, will be held the first session of the cabin of direction of the protocol of understanding between the Ministry for the South and Cassa deposits and loans, among whose objectives we have expressly provided for the project support of Cassa deposits and loans to the early school building in the municipalities. The theme of the nests, Senator Pittella, as you said during your speech, is of absolute priority and is the indispensable prerequisite for seriously tackling the debate on the definition of the essential levels of performance, which I consider - as you know - crucial in order to ensure the real revival of the Mezzogiorno and the disadvantaged areas, but also crucial in order to overcome that gap of unacceptable citizenship in a civil country like ours because it prevents the southern citizens from accessing fundamental rights, starting with kindergartens, education, mobility, transport and health. On this dossier, the Ministry for the South is committed and I intend to be able to inform you about the initiatives that we will take in the coming weeks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pittella has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u12	Thank you, Minister, also on behalf of my colleague, Mr Stefano. Churchill said the word is the only thing that lasts forever. For us his word applies, even if we are faced with a contradiction typical of our country that is the absence of the Ministry of the South in the direction cabin on this matter. We will therefore support the amendment of this absurd rule. I would like to take this opportunity, as well as to thank you for the commitments you have made, to tell you to pay attention to how the recovery fund moves on the Mezzogiorno and to guarantee the legs of the Mezzogiorno, because it uses the funds envisaged. Attention should be paid to the queues of the Structural Funds programmes and to the new programming of the Structural Funds, including in relation to the services to be given to women and children. Attention to the national strategy on internal areas and the dramatic situation in which municipalities suffer from depopulation. I'll write you a draft law from the PD Group, of which I'm the first signatory, which helps to repopulate these municipalities. It's a big question of democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u13	Senator Giammanco has the right to explain the question 3-02428 on initiatives in Southern Italy to be financed through the European React-EU programme, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the context of the Next Generation EU, which the European Union has offered to the member countries to get out of the economic emergency, in addition to the now strange recovery fund, there is also the React-EU fund; a fund that is little talked about, but that is very important, because it is full-bodied (for Italy it is worth about 13 billion euros) and because it is available in a short time. We are talking about an instrument that will certainly represent a very important support for our Mezzogiorno, even more so at this historic moment, and for this reason it must be programmed with great attention, responsibility and timeliness. With the React-EU, the most urgent interventions can be financed and the necessary assistance can be provided to all those companies brought to their knees by the pandemic. Of these EUR 13 billion, in fact, we know that about 8.36 should go to the South and are destined to very important measures, such as benefit taxation, bonuses for the recruitment of young people and women, the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and their digitisation, the energy transition and the circular economy. The resources will also go to the digital transformation of school teaching, the reduction of university fees and the health sector. Of these, not negligible, as many as 136 million should be allocated to the purchase of vaccines. On the whole, therefore, the React-EU can be a real breath of immediate oxygen for the southern regions, a fundamental lever for the economic recovery of those territories. Advantage tax, for example, is a key measure to relaunch the South and is one of the pieces of a comprehensive mosaic needed to support businesses, along with bureaucratic simplification and structural tax reduction. It will also be important to deal immediately with Europe, Minister, in order to extend the decontribution to companies in the Mezzogiorno to the next few years. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what is the current state of programming of the resources of the React - EU Fund, exactly what is the final quota allocated to the Mezzogiorno (in this regard we have read news of the press, but we would also like to have its official confirmation), what the planned interventions are and how they will be distributed among the different regions of the Mezzogiorno. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u15	I thank Senator Giammanco for bringing to the attention of this Assembly the programming linked to the React-EU. The React-EU programme, as part of the Next Generation EU, allocates additional resources for cohesion policy 2014-2020 to the countries most affected by the pandemic. Of the 47,5 billion total, our country benefits from the highest share, 13.5 billion. On 9 April I sent the programming document for the React-EU Plan to the European Commission, with the precise indication of the lines of action drawn up on the outcome of a thorough investigation. We have achieved the highest share of the React-EU funds, so we had to be among the first in Europe and among the most concrete in defining the programming to spend them and I am satisfied because we have succeeded. The plan sent to the Commission, compared with previous drafts, enhances green innovation, introduces a new chapter to address the chronic problem of colabrodo aqueducts, strengthens support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Mezzogiorno and invests resources in research, primary and secondary education and labour. We have focused exclusively on measures that are actually feasible by the end of 2023, managed at national level through the NAP instrument. Approximately two thirds of the total package is allocated to the Mezzogiorno, amounting to almost 8.5 billion. The decontribution of employment contracts to the South alone absorbs 4 billion, but other important resources are allocated to the southern regions: 313 million for actions to reduce the water dispersion of networks; 750 million out of 1.5 billion from the Fund new skills and other active labour policies; 400 million out of 500 from the Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Guarantee; 100 million out of 200 from the Fund for Green Venture Capital; 57 million for the strengthening of agricultural institutions and more for the connectivity and digitisation of school classrooms. More than 2 billion of the Plan have as a cross-cutting objective environmental sustainability, both in the South and in the Centre-North. I would say that the React-EU represents an important test bench for our country, it is a bit the general proof of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is the first instrument on which Italy can and must demonstrate programming skills on the one hand and certainty of investment times on the other. On the programming capacity, I believe that we have given a proof of timeliness and hope also of efficiency, it is up to the various levels of central, regional and even local government to do the same in the realization of the works. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Giammanco has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u16	Minister, thank you for your reply, for which I am very pleased. You are well aware that the potential of the South is incredible, but that it is necessary to overcome the southern question and therefore to address it, once again, as a national issue. We live in a split country, we have to act quickly and the React-EU gives us the opportunity to give immediate answers to the southern citizens. Restorations are a sacred and necessary measure, but still emergent. The Government's task must be to bridge the economic, social and employment gap between North and South of the country, a gap that - alas - has increased further with the pandemic. That is why I hope that the opportunity offered by the React-EU will be taken, as well as that represented by the Development and Cohesion Fund, Minister, because it is not acceptable that in the seven years of programming 2014-2020, out of the 73 billion overall budget of the Fund was spent just over 6%. I would also urge you to ensure that, in the final version of the PNRR, the 34 per cent constraint on the total resources of the recovery fund to be allocated to the South is actually respected. [[Applause]] , so as to avoid overlapping and counting resources from other funds in the final accounts, such as those of the React-EU. I ask you not to reduce the issue to a flag percentage or a mere logic of demand, but because behind the numbers, behind the statistics that tell an economic backwardness made even more serious by the pandemic, there is the suffering that the people of the South live daily on their own skin and that must be alleviated as soon as possible thanks to the historical opportunity that Europe offers us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u17	Senator Ricciardi has the right to explain the question 3-02429 on the share of investment in the Mezzogiorno, also with reference to the PNRR, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, in the report on the PNRR proposal which was presented by the Senate, it is evident that the 34 per cent clause for the Mezzogiorno is absolutely to be increased. It is considered appropriate to set a allocation of resources which is at least partially consistent with the criteria for allocating the resources that the European Union has allocated to the Member States: population, inverse to GDP per head and unemployment rate. The report also recommends the priority definition of LEPs, which you have just mentioned, as part of the structural reforms of the PNRR. This is in order to recover gaps in the provision of essential public services, so that civil and social rights can be fully exercised. The same comments were also reiterated in the House of Deputies' report, with an addition: the adjustment of the allocation criteria should not take into account the resources for existing interventions, i.e. it should not consider those resources that are already included in the public finance trends, i.e. the React-EU. Minister, on the occasion of your hearing in the Senate on 16 March last at the 5th and 14th Commissions, I put these very issues to your attention and asked you if the Government had intended to adopt the same criteria of departure. On the occasion I did not have an answer on the merits, and it merely pointed out that the share of 34% should be exceeded, especially for infrastructure (if I am not mistaken, it indicated a 50%). However, just in these weeks, the same problem has also been posed by some local administrators, such as the Presidents of the Region, on the occasion of the important general states that you called, and by as many as 500 mayors who join the network Recovery South. These local administrators wrote to the President of the European Commission asking for more protection for the South and careful supervision of the use of funds. The fear is, in fact, that we will be faced with a direct intervention by the European Union which, I repeat, has set up an important proportion of resources for Italy, precisely in view of the criteria just listed. I would therefore ask you again whether the Government intends to apply the repartition criterion required in these parliamentary reports and, as requested in these reports, whether the Government intends to define the LEPs. I would like to ask you explicitly whether you consider it correct that constitutional rights can be financed from extraordinary European resources and not from ordinary national funds (i.e. LEPs). Finally, I would like to ask you what is the exact share of resources that the Government as a whole intends to allocate to the Mezzogiorno, net of funds outside the allocations of the next generation EU. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u19	The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the South quota in the PNRR and the need to overcome, as the honourable Member said, the percentage of 34% of investment in the Mezzogiorno - which is also noted in the reports to which Senator Ricciardi referred - I can assure you that this has been the absolute priority on which, since the first days of my Ministry, I have focused my attention. In agreement with Minister Franco, we started a reconnaissance work aimed at building a specific South chapter - which was not, as I recalled during the reply to the first question - through a work not only of defence, but also of increasing the interventions dedicated to the Mezzogiorno. By virtue of this work and thanks to the work of defence, but above all of increase, the South quota today reaches 40%, a figure - I want to emphasize - to which we probably would not have arrived without a careful activity of verification, measure by measure, carried out by all the ministries involved, and of implementation of the different missions. I am not saying this to get my hands on, but it will not escape you that one thing is to work on the largest reconstruction plan for our country since the post-war period, having a one-year horizon, and another account is to be able to do so having two months of time. Personally, in my vision I would have built a South chapter, dedicated to interventions in the South, from the very beginning, since the first draft of the Plan, but I was forced to work on the approach I found myself. Soon, in my speech at the Unified Conference, with more time I will be able to get into the details of the individual missions. I mention only, as an example, for the particular importance of the mission, that dedicated to "Infrastructures for sustainable mobility," characterized by having the most important South share, 52 percent. The high railway speed in the Mezzogiorno is the real protagonist of this mission, with the financing of the functional lots, of the lines Naples-Bari, Salerno-Reggio Calabria, Palermo-Messina-Catania, Rome-Pescara and Taranto-Metaponto-Potenza-Battipaglia. Attention, however: the quota can rise beyond 40%, if we help the territorial authorities and the enterprises to compete on equal arms with those of the rest of the country, that is to absorb a greater share of the resources that will be banned. There are some measures, such as ecobonus, which historically are not adequately absorbable from the Mezzogiorno, so we are working on regulatory changes that can make the South able to attract these important resources. With regard to the issue of LEPs, which I consider central to the development of the Mezzogiorno, to the reduction of territorial imbalances between North and South and to guarantee access for all citizens to basic services regardless of their place of residence, I am working with the ministers responsible for accompanying the adoption of the PNRR with a precise definition with primary standard of the essential levels of benefits. We will start from early childhood, that is, from kindergartens, and from social, with an approach that takes into account the different levels of departure in the realities of the country and the qualitative content, and not only quantitative, of the benefits that are provided and the need to support these actions with national resources that each year are specifically intended by budget law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u21	Senator Ricciardi has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u22	Minister, thank you very much for your reply and I hope that your commitment will also be followed by one of the Government's efforts towards the Mezzogiorno, because, I would like to reiterate, it is the poorest area in Europe. Adding some data: the classification of regions at risk of poverty sees Sicily and Campania in the first and second place, then, to the twelfth and thirteenth, Calabria and Puglia, and, in the eighteenth and nineteenth, Basilicata and Molise. I therefore believe that the path Italy must take is absolutely to start from the PNRR and, in the absence of true social and territorial cohesion, all this cannot be achieved, except by defining the LEPs and refinanceing large works, as promised at the moment. I would also like to point out that Svimez has estimated that 50% of the next generation EU funds in the Mezzogiorno would increase southern GDP by 11.6 per cent, and I do not say this, but research institutes and the Bank of Italy itself confirm that investing in territorial rebalancing would have an indirect effect on the production of the Centre-North. For example, a euro invested in the South generates 1.3 euros of value added for the whole country, thanks to a multiplier effect of public investment in these areas. One last thing: the Covid unveiled a glimpse of our country; from 2002 to 2017, two million citizens abandoned the South, mostly young, 33% of whom graduated. In fifteen years, the Mezzogiorno has lost the same number of residents of the city of Rome. I say this in the knowledge that if the South starts again, Italy starts again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u23	Senator Balboni has the power to explain the question 3-02424 on the current criticalities in the management of the migratory phenomenon, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, unfortunately Italy is returning to a privileged destination for the migration of thousands and thousands of desperate, especially economic migrants, who are constantly arriving on our coasts. As you are well aware, in the first months of this year the landings have more than doubled compared to 2020, in the same period, and more than duplicated compared to the same period of 2019: it is a real invasion, which creates huge problems, especially in a serious moment of emergency as represented by the pandemic, aggravated by the fact that many of these immigrants - although it seems strange - are free to move freely on the national territory, unlike all Italians and all regular immigrants, with the risk of spreading the contagion and, in particular, to bring to Italy variants of the virus resistant also to cures and vaccines. It is also known that infiltrated in this mass of desperate there are also many affiliates to the various foreign mafias, who are taking control of most of our suburbs, and unfortunately, in some cases, the presence of terrorists has also been found. As you know, thanks to the courageous work of some prosecutors and magistrates, it has been discovered what was actually already known, namely that NGOs, far from simply doing a job of recovering shipwrecks in the Mediterranean, very often play a role of support and aid to traffickers of human flesh and human beings. In some cases, they are even complicit in this unworthy traffic. Madam Minister, let us ask you what urgent measures you and the Government intend to take to finally stop this immigration so devoid of rules and control that it risks creating even more suffering for Italy and the Italians than they are already suffering during this period.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u25	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, migration flows from North Africa are certainly an important subject, which we are following very carefully. I believe that first of all, we need the division of criminal partnerships which certainly lead to the loss of human lives. It is therefore certainly necessary to contain - we are sure and doing everything we can - illegal immigration. An effective fight against trafficking in migrants and trafficking requires two conditions: firstly, we need a shared approach with third countries of origin on transit of flows, which must cooperate and be supported in the construction of effective border control systems; secondly, we need to relaunch the external dimension of European migration policy, as I pointed out at the joint meeting of Foreign and Internal Ministers on 15 March. Ultimately, the European Union must also make an extraordinary effort to relaunch political dialogue and partnership agreements with third countries, in order to prevent migration flows, facilitate return activities and, at the same time, intensify cooperation in the field of sustainable economic development and legal migration. This aspect of migration policies requires greater coordination between the governing bodies of the European Union and the Member States and, in this context, Italy is ready to make a concrete contribution. Turning to the operational dimension, an important instrument for controlling the external maritime borders is the joint patrol operation Themis, conducted under the aegis of Frontex, which is still in progress, aimed at maritime surveillance for the control of migratory flows in the Central Mediterranean. Moreover, through the use of European funding provided by the Security Fund 2014-2020, the modernisation of the coastal radar network of the Navy and the Finance Guard has been realized, precisely to enhance the ability to intercept at sea also small boats used by migrants to reach the Italian coasts. As regards the health risks associated with the migratory flows raised by the honourable Member, I should like to point out that all migrants who have arrived on national territory, prior to their inclusion in the reception system, are subject to the health protocols aimed at the containment of the contagion by Covid and regularly carry out a quarantine period. They come down from the ships, where they carry out the quarantine period, only after they have done the swab with negative result. With regard to the prevention of the risk of terrorist infiltration in migratory flows, police forces maintain a high level of attention. In this context, special task forces composed of immigration counterterrorism experts, active in the main landing areas and in national hotspots, with the task of analysing precisely the possibility of terrorist infiltrations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u27	Madam President, Madam Minister, unfortunately I cannot be satisfied with your reply, because these activities you listed in detail (which I thank you for) were also in place one, two or three years ago. What has changed since then? Why have migratory flows increased tenfold during this period? The answer is simple: because last December the security decrees were dismantled. You know that, because you were the first signatory to that bill. You have transformed Italy in a guilty way into a privileged destination for immigrants; you have attacked a manifesto, throughout the Third World, according to which you can arrive here and you are welcomed. It should be done as in Spain. What did Spain do? It has made a very simple rule, which has been recognised as legitimate by the European Court of Human Rights in a ruling last year: it has ensured that those who really have the right to asylum can apply to the embassies of the country of origin or even the country of transit. Anyone who wants to come applies to the embassy or consulate and, if he is entitled, comes; everyone else is rejected. Spain, which is also a country of the European Union, rejects migrants by mass, because it allows them to come regularly, without running the risk of losing their lives and being exploited by slaves and traffickers of human beings. They come to Spain in a regular way, without risking their lives, and we would like Italy to do the same. This is the road. Along with the naval blockade, the only way not to kill people in the middle of the sea and to make sure that they are not exploited in an unworthy way is to prevent departures. This is the only way that, according to us and according to the Brothers of Italy, is possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u28	Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-02427 on the allowance of bilingualism to the staff of the State Police operating in the province of Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, Law No 1165 of 1961 provides for second language allowance to be awarded to the staff of the roles of the State Police in service in the province of Bolzano. The decree of the President of the Republic No 752 of 1976 introduced the exams of bilingualism for the verification of the knowledge of the Italian and German language, aimed at the issue, by the commissions, of four types of attestation, depending on the level of knowledge of the Italian and German language, that is, levels C1, B2, B1 and A2. The bilingualism allowance shall be calculated by reference to the certificate required for access from outside to the function. In view of the fact that Article 1 of Legislative Decree No 95 of 2017 replaced Article 6 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 35 of 1982, raising the level compared to the degree required for access to the basic roles of the State Police from a diploma of first grade secondary education to a diploma of second grade secondary education, as a result of the raising of the requirement compared to the required degree of study, interested parties submitted to the Bolzano police station an application for alignment of the allowance of bilingualism in pay envelope, as provided for by the legislation in force, from level B1 to level B2, with a request for payment of the relevant accrued economic arrears. These applications, as they stand at present, have not been made at the competent offices. It is therefore asked to know what are the reasons for the delay in taking charge of applications for alignment of bilingualism allowance according to the new levels established and whether the Minister at address does not intend to ask the relevant offices to deal with such applications.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u30	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the points made by the honourable Member, it must be pointed out that the correspondence between the level of knowledge of the Italian and German languages and the degree of study required for the exercise of the administrative function is expressly provided for by a decree of the President of the Republic, No 752 of 1976, for all public administrations. This legislation provides that the second language allowance is to be calculated with reference to the various degrees of the certificates of linguistic knowledge and not related to the function covered and that, where the level of linguistic knowledge achieved is higher than the level required for access to the functional qualification covered, the allowance must be calculated with reference to the level required for access from outside to the functional qualification. Subsequently, with Legislative Decree No. 95 of 2017, Article 6 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 335 of 1982, which concerns the roles of the Police Forces, has been amended and the title of study for the recruitment of State Police officers from the diploma of secondary education of first degree to the diploma of second degree education has been raised. However, in accordance with the tempus regit actum principle, the legislation in force at the date of their entry into the State Police must be applied to employees, since those who entered later the amendment introduced in 2017. This orientation, moreover, was also shared by the most recent administrative jurisprudence, so much so that the TAR section of autonomous Bolzano, by judgment No 269 of 6 November 2019, ruled that the fact that the applicant is in possession of a higher degree of bilingualism than that required for access from outside to the function does not determine the right to receive the corresponding compensation, preventing you from the clear provision of the fifth paragraph of Article 1 of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic No 752. However, I would like to assure you that this is a matter for the attention of my offices and that all the necessary details will be taken into account, the outcome of which will be taken as a result. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we consider it important to encourage the payment of the bilingualism allowance, precisely in order to facilitate the use of the German language in relations between the citizen and the forces of order, especially in our territory. We are pleased that you are addressing this issue, also in view of the delicacy of the issues that the aspect of language often takes on in the relations between law enforcement and citizens. I would therefore like to thank you for your answer and for your concern at this issue: perhaps in the future we will have the opportunity to return to the subject and try to find suitable solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u33	Senator Ruotolo has the right to explain the question 3-02425 on the interference of organized crime in the area of Castellammare di Stabia and Torre del Greco, in the province of Naples, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again turning the spotlight on the Camorra emergency. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you what initiatives you intend to take to counter the real risk of infiltrating the underworld into the economic, social and political fabric of the Neapolitan territory, which has already been hit by a serious discomfort, also following the emergency of health and economic conditions. The attention of my speech today concerns two cities in the Neapolitan area: Castellammare di Stabia, which has more than 60,000 inhabitants, where the D'Alessandro clan has been present for three generations, and Torre del Greco, which has 85,000. In both municipalities, judicial investigations and investigation of the law enforcement agencies show the interest of the clans not only in the public procurement system, but also in local politics. I remind you that 16 members of the clan were arrested in Castellammare di Stabia in March. The thigh would put its hands in settled health care. He also knows that investigations have been reopened on two excellent murders of Castellammare: that of Sebastiano Corrado, City Councillor of the then Democratic Party of the Left, and that of Luigi Tommasino, elected in Commune precisely in the Democratic Party. The interweaving of local politics and camorra and, consequently, the need to combat opacity are clear to you. There is also Torre del Greco: here too, the picture that would emerge from an investigation that had already led to the arrest of several subjects in April 2019, if confirmed, would allow a unique and well-defined direction aimed at conditioning in an unequivocal and criminal way the vote of the local elections of 2018 on several fronts. In short, Madam Minister, do you not consider setting up the access committees in the two municipalities to verify the possible infiltrations of the camorra clans? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u35	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u36	Mr President, reference is made to the risk of the infiltration of organised crime in the municipalities of Torre del Greco and Castellammare di Stabia. The honourable Member asks whether or not the power of access provided for in Article 143 of the single text of local authorities (TUEL) is intended to be activated in relation to these administrations. With reference to the Municipality of Castellammare di Stabia, on 25 March, a pre-trial order was filed in prison against 16 prominent members of the D'Alessandro clan, in which the interference of organized crime in public procurement also referred to the hospital San Leonardo. This investigative framework was examined by the Prefect of Naples, who, after a first immediate interforce coordination meeting, deepened the issue in the provincial committee for public order and security, held on 9 April, in which the District Attorney of the Republic also participated. On this occasion it was agreed that the context of Castellammare di Stabia should be monitored with the utmost attention, including through the activation of extraordinary control services of the territory and that the risk of infiltration of organized crime should be further deepened by the police forces in order to verify the existence of the premises referred to in Article 143 of the TEU. The prefect of Naples in this regard will soon give me a report, which will then assess the case and whether or not to make access to that municipality, thus exercising the powers of access. As regards the criminal scenario of Torre del Greco, on the night of 1 April, as highlighted in the question, was executed, also here by the Arma dei Carabinieri, to the personal precautionary measure issued on 26 March last by the gip of Torre Annunziata, subjecting to house arrest, among others, a councilman of the Municipality. These measures have been arranged in the framework of a broader and more detailed investigation, with which it has been established that during the administrative consultation of 2018 all the suspects would be part of a criminal association aimed at the sale of votes. Also the situation of the Municipality of Torre del Greco has been the subject of deepening during the provincial committee for the order and public security to the prefecture of Naples of 9 April and, in that circumstance, in taking note of the request made by the same mayor of the municipality of Torre del Greco to send the request for a commission of access to the own Municipality, it has been agreed on the necessity that the information elements are the subject of deepening by the police forces, also in this case, in order to carefully assess the existence of the premises to activate the procedures established by Article 143 of the TEU. For this municipal administration too, I am therefore waiting for the elements that the Prefect of Naples will give me to the outcome of the committee, and then decide whether to exercise the powers of access. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Rotolo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u37	Madam President, in thanking Mrs Minister, we are all waiting for the decision to be taken by the prefecture in Naples. As you know, just a few days ago a delegation of Neapolitan MPs of the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars, together with myself, met Dr. Marco Valentini, the prefect of Naples. We have all grasped the commitment of the Prefecture, its Ministry, the Forces of Order and the judiciary to deal with the criminal emergency, knowing that the European funds of the recovery fund will go to organized crime. We have no other way than to invest in the legality to counter the escalation of the Camorra, which reproduces (in the case of Castellammare di Stabia we are in fact the third generation of a clan), because it relates to the powers: political power, economic power and financial power. To win, you have to cut off these bonds and, above all, beat indifference. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u38	Senator Bishops has the power to illustrate the question 3-02426 on the increase of irregular migratory flows from Libya, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, in recent weeks migratory flows from Libya have increased considerably: only in the first weekend of April in Italy, when the country was completely in confinement, have about 500 migrants landed in Lampedusa. There is also a very well-founded fear that with the resumption of operations at sea by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and with more favourable weather conditions, due to climate reasons, attempts to disembark are still increasing. I would like to stress the data of the Ministry of the Interior for the period between 1 January and 13 April: in that period in 2019 625 migrants have landed irregularly, with Minister Salvini; from 1 January to 13 April 2020 have landed on our coasts 3,227 irregular migrants; from 1 January to 13 April of this year, 2021, irregularly landed migrants on our coasts are 8.505. In our opinion the situation is really difficult, because to the management of migrants is added also the containment of the Covid-19, which requires additional measures of control and isolation that really risk sending our system to collapse. We would therefore like to know what actions of domestic and foreign policy, also in agreement with the Libyan Government and with other countries, is planning to prevent the continuous and incessant landing of migrants on our coasts and, on the other hand, to place them equally, perhaps dividing them across Europe, avoiding that our country, already heavily tested by the emergency health, is further burdened in facing problems of public order related to the management of illegal immigration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u40	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u41	Mr President, we are aware that migration policies, due to their structural and inevitable overlapping of plans (supernational, national and local), must be developed with a broad approach and placed in the wake of the constitutional principles and international obligations of Italy. At international level, the main aspect of immigration policies in recent months is the ongoing EU-level negotiation for the approval of the New Pact on Migration and Asylum. With regard to the proposals contained, I have already had the opportunity to clarify Italy's position in the various European fora. Our negotiating strategy is based on the need to recognise the specificity of maritime border management, with more stringent relocation systems for migrants rescued at sea during search and rescue operations, as foreseen in the 2019 Malta Agreement. On this strategy, I have recently had a positive confrontation with Mr Darmanin in Paris, and we will soon do so, together with the French Minister, with the German Minister Seehofer. I would also point out that we are making the greatest effort to restart the relocation mechanism, which has unfortunately been blocked by the pandemic. The other key point is the affirmation of a fundamental balance between responsibility in the management of the Union's external borders and solidarity between its Member States. This priority was at the heart of the meeting in Athens on 20 March, on the occasion of Med-5, an informal Forum that includes Italy, Greece, Spain, Cyprus and Malta, that is, the five member countries of the European Union overlooking the Mediterranean and therefore strongly exposed to flows as countries of first entry. In this context, I believe it is essential to cooperate with the countries of origin and transit of flows. In this, Italy is engaged in the stabilisation process, also in Libya, of the institutions, in line with the bilateral historical relationship that unites the two countries. An important political development is the recent constitution of the Government of National Unity, which should lead Libya to elections in December. I plan to meet my Libyan counterpart very soon to reaffirm my Italian willingness to provide effective and constructive support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bishops may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u42	Minister, on this last point I would like to stress that I agree that we must be operational with Libya. All the legislation is fine, but we also need an agreement to try, in fact, both to find a solution with Libya and perhaps, when they arrive, to carry out a redistribution at European level. In fact, already the situation pre Covid-19 was difficult for our country, to collect everyone, let alone in this period, in which these people (which, however, humanly make us feel sorry and touch us, because in turn they seek a place, even if, in my opinion, this is not the solution), once immigrants must also be equally distributed at European level. The situation, in our opinion, is very delicate and goes to add to the one due to the Covid-19 in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u43	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u46	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic situation in Calabria, especially in the province of Cosenza, is worsening day by day, with a growing increase in infection and death: there are difficulties in the containment and tracking of the virus; health facilities now saturated and collapsed; hospitalizations blocked; patients in line in the emergency room; ambulances queued for hours in front of the hospital Annunziata in Cosenza; patients who unfortunately die inside, waiting to be hospitalized; exhausted personnel, called on a massacred shift; confused and approximate vaccination campaign, which proceeds slowly, forcing elderly and fragile, suffering from serious diseases, to face for the first dose of real vaccine and proper travels of hope hundreds of kilometers away. The ataviche criticalities of Calabrian health, combined with the failed police management, which must be definitively closed, make the current epidemiological situation even more worrying in this region since always in emergency and which, as was expected, suffers the impact of the new wave of the virus, unprepared and inadequate in every respect. The time has come to archive this delety page of expropriation of rights, autonomy and power and to give answers to the Calabrians. Health returns to the Calabrians, removing the debt at the head of the State and immediately starting an overall reorganization of the hospital network, with the reopening of closed garrisons, with the recruitment of more personnel and with all the measures aimed at stopping the emigration of health. The mayors, who, accepting the appeal of the mayor of Cosenza, on April 17 will find themselves in front of the emergency room of the civil hospital of Cosenza, remain the only and only outposts of the State, all the more so in a region already on its knees economically and socially, in its trouble in the ordinary, let alone in the extraordinaryness of a pandemic from the proportions of what we are living. I am close to the civic committees, which have put in place a fight action that must be supported peacefully. We want to understand what has happened, what is happening now in this region and who are the responsibilities. I expect from the Government that finally the citizens of Calabria will also be guaranteed the full realization of a primary right enshrined in our Constitution: the right to health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u49	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country's economic conditions did not shine before the pandemic. Let alone now, after more than a year of Covid-19. One of the hardest economic markets has long been that of construction, a sector that more than any other is driving and multiplier for an endless series of economic actors: I think of designers, manufacturers of building materials, electronics and plumbing; I think of masons, plasterers, painters, dealers of materials and so on, even real estate companies. It is a long chain of co-interested in this economy and here lies the legislative and economic intelligence of the superbonus at 110 percent, wanted and conceived by the Movimento 5 Stars during the Count Government [[Applause]] : to move from the foundations the economy enclosed around the most important project that makes a normal family, that is to build or buy a house. Having said that, I would like to denounce here in the Chamber an anomaly, if not an injustice: the 110% superbonus on seismic adjustment and energy efficiency excludes the areas of reconstruction of the 1980 earthquake in Basilicata and Campania, or at least that is what appears from a position taken by the regional direction of the Agency of the revenues of Basilicata, which is of the opinion that the tax reductions provided for by the I throw back decree would not be cumulative with the facilities already required for the same purposes, on the basis of special rules, for interventions in areas affected by seismic events. I quote the organ of Confindustria, "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore) of March 2, 2021: would these favorable citizens on the reconstruction of the post-sysm of 1980 also be excluded from the energy improvement of their homes, on interventions outlined more than forty years ago and without taking into account the evolution of the techniques of intervention? The question, Mr President, is no small matter, since the 1980 earthquake devastated two regions. In essence, a significant difference in treatment is being introduced between the territories of Centro-Nord (Emilia Romagna, Abruzzo and Lazio), affected by an earthquake, and those of South Italy (Basilicata and Campania), affected by the same tragedy. I believe that we are faced with a wide regulatory gap, precisely because of the absence of specific directives concerning the earthquake event of 1980, and we have an ethical and social obligation to remedy it, in order to prevent the tragedy of the very long and painful reconstruction of the earthquake areas of 1980 being excluded from the facilitations of the law strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars. It takes a legislative act of authentic interpretation of the Ministry to clarify that the prohibition operates only for any ongoing financing practices. For these reasons, I have tabled a question and signed Mr Santillo's amendment to the Support Decree in order to protect this serious vulnus, for which we look forward to proper approval. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u50	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-316.ana.u51	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 20 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
