ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable by a majority until 6 October. Today's session will continue the discussion of the bill of delegation to the Government for the reform of the civil process, with the replies of the reporters and the Government. Since the Government has announced its intention to put the question of confidence in the measure, it will proceed in accordance with article 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Regulation. We will then proceed directly to the explanations of vote and to the call on trust, to be concluded by today's evening. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides, at 9.30 a.m., the information of the Minister for Agricultural Policies on Prosecco according to the times already defined. The Conference of Leaders has established that the bill delegated to the Government for the reform of the criminal process will be examined tomorrow, even if not concluded by the Commission. Since the Government has announced its intention to put - at the end of the general discussion - the question of confidence in the two articles of the draft law, the Conference of the Leaders has decided that the explanations of vote on all the articles will be taken directly; the two calls will follow by the end of the sitting. Without prejudice to the suspension for the sanitization of the Chamber, the sitting will in any case be suspended, from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m., in order to allow the senators to participate in a commemoration of the late Senator Saviane. The final vote on the bill of delegation to the Government for the reform of the criminal trial will take place at the beginning of the session of Thursday 23 September, after the 20 minutes provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, without further explanations of vote. The decree-law on the safe exercise of school and transport activities, currently under consideration by the House of Deputies, will then be discussed. Times have been contingencyd. Since the Government has announced its intention to put the question of confidence in the measure at the end of the general discussion, it will then proceed directly to explanations of vote before calling. The sessions of the current week do not include closing hours. Twelve minutes were allocated to the dissenters for each series of explanations of vote. It remains confirmed that the Assembly and the Commissions will not hold a session in the week from 27 September to 1 October, in relation to the local elections of 3 and 4 October 2021. On Wednesday 6 October, the agenda will include the discussion of the Update Note for the 2021 Economic and Financial Document and the ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Moreover, the Assembly may be convened in the afternoon of Tuesday 5 October for an information of the Minister of Economy and Finance - where available - on the strategy of the ITA industrial plan. On Thursday 7 and Friday 8 October, the Senate Assembly will be engaged in the 7th Conference of Presidents of the G20 Parliaments. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Tuesday 5 October at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 6 October: [[Tuesday, September 21 h. 16,30 - Following bill no. 1662 and connected - Civil trial delegation (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Information of the Minister for Agricultural Policies on the protection of the denomination of controlled origin of the "Prosecco" (Wednesday 22, 9.30) - Drawing of law no. 2353 - Delegation of criminal trial (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law no.... - Decree-Law No. 111, Exercise in safety of school activities and transport (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 5 October) Wednesday 22 " h. 9,30 Thursday 23 " h. 9,30 Friday 24 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No... (Decree-Law No 111, Safe Exercise of School and Transport Activities) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be held in the week from 27 September to 1 October, in relation to the local elections of 3 and 4 October 2021. [[Wednesday 6 October h. 9.30 a.m. - Doc. LVII, n. 4-a - Update note for the 2021 Economy and Finance Document - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission]] * Motions for resolutions on Doc. LVII, n. 4-a (Note to update the 2021 Economy and Finance Document) will have to be submitted before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. On Thursday 7 and Friday 8 October, the Senate Assembly will be engaged in the 7th Conference of Presidents of the G20 Parliaments. The schedule of work can be supplemented by a session on Tuesday afternoon, October 5, to inform the Minister of Economy and Finance - where available - on the strategy of the industrial plan of Ita. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree Law n. 111, Exercise in safety of school activities and transport) (Groups 3 hours) [[M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14']] Time distribution for discussion of Doc. LVII, n. 4-a (Economy and Finance Document Update note 2021) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 22' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u8	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, we have just heard that the debate has been scheduled for tomorrow and then the question of trust in the draft law delegates to the Government for the reform of Cartabia. I do not know if you have been informed, but the amendments have arrived in the Justice Commission today. Their examination and voting began today and this timetable basically prevents us from voting on them. It is completely impossible in one day to vote on the amendments; in this case, however, there are so many amendments, because the reform in question profoundly changes the criminal law, introducing improcability, providing that prosecutors are subject to policy in the priority criteria for investigations. A reform of this kind, not least because of the urgency of converting a decree-law or linked to the pandemic, with only one day of the Commission examining the amendments, is something profoundly undemocratic. We therefore ask you to take action to enable the Commission to examine the amendments and vote on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u9	Senator Crucioli, you are calling for a change in the timetable, so that the words 'where concluded by the Commission' are inserted.'
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u10	As it turned out to be in the first line. In fact, it had arrived today, so that, when concluded, we could start tomorrow, but we imagined that we had at least two or three days to examine it, so much so that we were ready to work at night both today and tomorrow. It's just impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u11	So he asks for this change in the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u12	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). I would ask that the debate be postponed to the House, leaving at least this week to the Commission to examine the more than 1,800 amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u15	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I too am speaking on the timetable because - as you know, Mr President - the Brothers of Italy Group I represent in the Group of the European People's Party did not vote in favour of the proposal for a timetable that you have just presented to the House, because Brothers of Italy is asking that the draft delegation law, which my colleague spoke about just now, be examined with due calm and with due consideration in the Commission and then in the Chamber also next week or the following week. There is no technical or legal urgency. It is true that the reform of the civil process, such as the criminal one, is one of the reforms that Europe asked Italy when it signed the PNRR, but it is also true that there is no obligation to close the debate within the current week. The problem, Mr President, is another one: this is just another aspect of a bigger problem that this House continues to pretend it is not seeing. I am convinced that many of our colleagues in the majority live in the same embarrassment that we live, namely the zeroing of the role of Parliament and, in our case, of the Senate. [[Applause]] Someone should have the dignity to stand up and say that this cannot go on. We have established, I believe, a record in the history of the Republic: you will vote on four trusts to the Government within 48 hours. What is Parliament's role? What is Parliament for? What is the use of our amending work? What good is it to intervene and discuss, if the Government always and systematically puts trust in all the provisions, decrees and even the laws of delegation? What is the use of Parliament if the government puts its trust at first reading? At least first it allowed us to discuss in a branch of Parliament, and then to arm the measure in the next branch; now not even that. Now trust is placed immediately and we are here pretending to be parliamentarians. Mr President, as I said at the Conference of the Leaders, but I would also like to reiterate this in this House, with reference to what my colleague who spoke on the order of business said, I consider the timetable of the Commission to be provocative and offensive, which provides for the discussion of the amendments at first call at 1 a.m. and, at second call, at 5 a.m., as if to say: dear Member, if you dare to do your duty, i.e. to table amendments and ask to discuss them, I will stifle all your desires by calling the Commissions at nighttime, so that you will be willing to be a Member of Parliament, to be a free person, to represent your citizens! [[Applause]] We are reduced to this, President Alberti Casellati. Trust, even anti-democratic violence, is not enough to summon the Commissions at night to prevent discussion. We are not discussing any small measure; we are discussing, or rather we would like to discuss, the reform of the criminal process. Well, it is impossible, because you have established that this must be so. It is impossible for the Parliament of the Italian Republic, for the Senate, for the senators elected by the citizens to discuss, to do the job for which they were voted. I ask you and ask colleagues from all parties (because in this case it is not about defending the majority or the opposition, but about defending the role of Parliament) whether a Parliament reduced in this state, in which the exercise of parliamentary activity is practically stifled, if not cancelled, is a Parliament that can still be called democratic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u16	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, made by Senators Crucioli and Ciriani, to postpone the discussion of the draft law delegation on criminal proceedings until next week or to the next one, when concluded the examination in the Commission. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. [[Comments.]] Senator Crucioli, please put down the signs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1662 and 311. I would remind you that at the sitting of 16 September the rapporteurs held the oral report and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u18	Mr President, in view of the in-depth debate that has taken place, the rapporteurs give up their reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u19	The representative of the Government also renounces to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u22	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since we are waiting to see how we can proceed in our work, I propose that we suspend the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u23	Not making any comments, so it remains established. I'm gonna suspend the session for half an hour. Work will resume at 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.53 p.m. and resumed at 5.32 p.m.) He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Senate Rules, an amendment entirely replacing the articles of the draft law in question transposing the text proposed by the Commission, including the title, with certain technical amendments, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u25	The Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and at the same time transmits it, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, to the 5th Permanent Commission which is now authorised to convene. I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, how long it takes to give the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u26	Mr President, we need at least an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u27	I therefore suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.33 p.m. and resumed at 6.47 p.m.) The Presidency welcomes the eligibility of the amendment tabled by the Government and invites the Senator Secretary to read the opinion expressed on the same amendment by the 5th Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u28	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the bill in title, transmitted by the Shareholders' Meeting, expresses, as far as it is of its own competence, opinion not precluded under the following conditions, formulated pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution: in Article 1, paragraph 4, point (t), paragraph 4 is deleted; in Article 1, paragraph 16, point (g), the following words are added in the end: ", whose components do not have any remuneration, presence tokens, reimbursements of expenses or other amounts still denominated". It is also appropriate, for reasons of consistency and formal correctness of the text, to make the following amendment to the amendment: in Article 1, paragraph 26 is replaced by the following: "26. In the exercise of the delegation referred to in paragraph 1, the decree or legislative decrees amending the code of civil procedure in the matter of process of cognition of first instance before the court in collegial composition are adopted in accordance with the following principle and governing criterion: a) modify article 336 of the civil code providing that the legitimacy to request the relative provisions compete, in addition to the subjects already provided for by the norm, also on the initiative of the special curator of the minor, if already appointed; that the court from the start of the procedure appoint special curator of the minor, in cases in which this is previewed to nullity of the provision of acceptance; that with the measure with which it adopts temporary measures in the interest of the minor, the court fixed the hearing of appearance of the parties, of the curator of the minor if appointed and of the public prosecutor within a peremptory term, proceed to listen to the child, directly and where deemed necessary with the help of an expert, and to the outcome of the hearing confirm, modify or revoke the measures issued.'........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u29	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, we welcome all the points made in the Budget Committee and, again on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment which is entirely a substitute for the articles of draft law No 1662.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u31	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the amendment tabled by the Government, which is entirely a substitute for draft law no. 1662.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u34	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Minister Cartabia, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about an epochal reform of the civil process, which has been discussed so much, but which has never been achieved. Of course, in all the measures that have the ambition to reform such a complex matter there are elements that convince and others less. As I have already said in the report, for me the best parties are concerned with family procedural law, from the establishment of the family court to the unified rite for children born outside or within marriage, to the possibility for the judge to issue unheard of measures alters part before the audience of the parties. Here there really are innovations that represent an overcoming of provisions and guidelines that are no longer current. No longer relevant is the idea that the family is an island that the sea of law must only lapped. If this Catholic-liberal vision had a meaning immediately after the season of totalitarianism, today, however, risks consolidating social imbalances that are manifested also in the families, leaving the dynamics within the family in the hands of the strongest. That is why it is a good thing that allows, even in constancy of marriage, only one of the spouses to address the judge in order to resolve a dispute. Let us think of the housewives who have given up paid work to care for the family, who are in total economic dependence and who can now assert their rights before a judge. Important is also the obligation to display the last three tax returns and documentation on its movable and immovable property in the proceedings in which maintenance issues are dealt with. I hope that the delegated legislator will formulate incisive sanctions for those who do not fulfil their duty or who provide untrue documentation. This is a very important provision in a system in which a spouse does not even have the right to know how much he earns and possesses the other. Then, in cases of violence, the procedural terms are rightly shortened: the victims cannot be induced to make a mediation and, in case of serious signs, the protective measures take place. Important is the provision that episodes of violence have an impact on the rights of visit of violent parents; in particular, if the child refuses to meet the violent parent, the judge will be obliged to listen to him urgently, to ascertain whether the reasons for the refusal are in having witnessed episodes of violence. In this way, one finally overcomes the notion that it is better a violent parent than no parent, who unfortunately has been a tenacious orientation of our jurisprudence. I would also like to highlight the rules for the protection of separated fathers: if they complain about forms of foreclosure in the relationship with their children, there is provision for timely intervention by the judge, who, once established, will be able to impose financial penalties for every day of non-compliance with the provision. With all these points, it really triggers a small Copernican revolution and in fact the reactions of the experts of family law are all in all positive. Of course, there is some concern, especially about the foreclosures that may compromise the right of defence, which is the point that I too see very critical, especially in the new structure of the process of cognition: instead of improving some aspects of a rite that - all things considered - worked well, taking away, for example, some memories or writing some hearings, it was intended to overturn everything, with a system of foreclosures for the parties and their lawyers, but not for the judges. In fact, we all know that judges sometimes set a hearing months apart: what good are they for such rigid foreclosures for the parties? On this point you have taken the wrong path. Already today one of the problems of the Italian system is that the form counts more than the substance. This reform will aggravate the problem and in the future we will no longer discuss who is right and who is wrong, but who has respected the terms and who has not and the courts will be clogged by requests for forgiveness in terms. I am also sceptical about shifting the tasks of the legal order to private institutions, even more so in the case of mediators who are not even lawyers. I wonder how a non-jurist can intervene on complicated legal issues. I hope, of course, to be denied by the facts, because we need swifter justice, provided, however, that it does not undermine the principle of equality before the law, that it protects all parties and thus reaffirms the high value of our order in the eyes of the citizens. It is with these wishes that I announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u37	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, Mrs Subsecretaria, ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing to vote once again on the reform of the civil process, which - as I said last week - is a first pillar which is part of a comprehensive reform project. I was a little criticized because I would have used emphatic tones last week in talking about this reform. I probably spoke more with my heart than with my head, but I did it with awareness, for the love I have for my profession, that we are really approving an extraordinary reform. Whether it likes it or not, it is certainly not perfect - all the legislative measures cannot be - and it is certainly perfectable, but a certain and incontrovertible fact is that today we are doing what we have tried to do for a very long time, but no one had ever succeeded before. I am here in the second legislature and since last, when I arrived in the Senate, there was talk of a reform of the civil process. Now, in a few months, instead, we have shown that things, when you want, can be done and you can get to the result that we are getting, that is, by completing a fact that certainly constitutes a turning point, for which I have used the term "epochal" and I still use it, because it imposes on all the operators of justice a change of pace and mentality and it is an extremely important thing, which will certainly allow to achieve the objectives that this reform proposes. For this I can only thank, once again, the Minister Cartabia and the Undersecretary, who really was an end mediator between certainly different positions, because it is normal for each of us to have a different view than the problems we have had to face. The sure fact, however, is that this Government, once again, is keeping the commitments it had made when it was installed and that no one can deny it. Then, by doing, when we change lawyers, mindset and approach to the trial, we will certainly be able to bring the necessary adjustments. In the meantime, however, we are leaving, in the terms we had said, and nothing can be said about this frankly. It is a commitment that had been made not only to the country, but to Europe. This is a fact that we can only point out in a very favourable way. We know that the aim of the reform of the civil process is to protect the daily needs of citizens, as well as economic operators. We have committed ourselves with the European institutions to break down the duration of the trials and the approval of this, as well as other reforms concerning justice (let's not forget that in the week we will finally approve the criminal one), depends on the disbursement of the funds provided by the PNRR in order to contribute to the overall relaunch of the country and its economy. Of course, there will be other issues to be addressed. We have examined many of them, including in the Justice Commission, which will all contribute to streamlining and speeding up the process. In the meantime, however, we are really putting a pillar that I believe is fundamental for the life of our country, especially for a peaceful development of the civil process. With this reform - we know - two aims are pursued: to make justice's response in the courts more immediate and secure and - an aspect that is absolutely not secondary - to stimulate a new culture, which I was talking about, that of the consensual composition of conflicts. This is an absolutely new fact, because it often happens to hear that a lawsuit wanted to do it and keep the lawyer up. Well, as I said, a change of pace and mindset will certainly be necessary, which is finally imposed by this reform. On this path, virtuous behaviors are valued with important tax and system incentives, such as alternative dispute resolution tools. Fair and efficient justice is not only done in words. It must be implemented, because it is crucial for the proper functioning and development of the economic system. The many relationships that bind justice to the economy have long been known: a justice that works facilitates trading activities, encourages investment, facilitates access to the credit market, promotes competition and increases the attractiveness of the country towards foreign investors. It is indicative, in this sense, that the reform of the judicial system, focused on the objective of reducing the time frame of the civil process, is included by the PNRR as one of the horizontal or contextual ones, which consist of structural innovations in the legal order that affect all areas of action of the Plan. To achieve these objectives, the Plan also provides for the strengthening of human resources and the instrumental and technological endowments of the entire judicial system, to which specific investments are allocated. On this I would open a very short parenthesis, because I have repeated several times during the meetings that it is really necessary to increase the organic plant of both the administrative and the magistrates. I would also like to say that there is a need to put a permanent hand on the honorary judiciary, and I am convinced that we could also complete this reform in the near future because that too is an issue that will certainly be very important in order to make the new system that we are pursuing with this reform work. I am convinced that there are three guidelines that trace the virtuous path of this reform: firstly, the strengthening of alternative instruments to the civil process, of which I have already said. Secondly, a selective intervention on the trial, aimed at concentrating more on the activities typical of the preparatory and introductory phase: finally abolishing potentially unnecessary hearings, reducing cases in which the court is called to judge in collegial composition and redefine the decision-making phase better, with reference to all the degrees of judgment. The third guideline concerns interventions on the executive process and special procedures to ensure simplification of forms and reduction of time. The latter is another crucial issue. We know that the executive process is essentially paralyzed and is proceeding very slowly, among other things opening the way to many speculations. I believe that the path has been taken in the right way and that important results can also be achieved on this issue. 19.06 (Follow CUCCA). Reform of the civil process is therefore necessary, because, as it is, it has a negative impact on the external vision of the quality of justice, confirming the widespread conviction that delayed justice is equivalent to condemned justice. It is also known that one of the reasons why foreign companies are reluctant to invest in our country is precisely the excessive slowness of civil proceedings, especially as regards the procedures for the recovery of claims and therefore the phase of enforced execution and bankruptcy proceedings. As I said, unlike the many attempts to reform that have been made since the 1990s, this reform has the merit of addressing the subject in a comprehensive and organic way, avoiding the error that had been committed to date, that is to say to intervene by sectors, which has not led absolutely to the result, making us find ourselves in the situation of a very slow and very bureaucratic justice. Then there is another merit: the full adherence to the idea that the treatment of the causes can take place in written form, thus transforming what was a temporary exception, due to the emergency health, into an ordinary rule, without prejudice to the hypotheses in which one or both parties see the opportunity of oral treatment. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to submit the text of my speech because time is almost over. I finish by renewing my thanks. Let me also extend it to the rapporteurs, who had to mediate a great deal, who had to engage in their professionalism and their knowledge of these issues. Above all, they had to deal with a very varied Commission, composed, among other things, mostly of lawyers, who therefore know well the issues they were talking about. Yet - I repeat - we have managed, with great patience, very calmly, sometimes with some verbal confrontation, to reach the result that we are achieving this evening. We at Italy Viva-Partito Socialista italiano are there; we are at this stage of approval of a reform that is crucial for Italy, but we will always be there, whenever we have long-term investments in one of the nerve sectors of the country. For this reason, I announce the convincingly favourable vote of the Group that I represent, of course that that of civil justice is an important piece, which will shortly be followed by criminal justice, for the real restart of the country. People will no longer be able to say that we live in a world of denied justice. We will make the adjustments we will have to make, but we are certainly achieving a result we have long hoped for and never managed to achieve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u40	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, already in general discussion, I had highlighted the danger of focusing almost all the few resources allocated to the justice sector on the institution of the trial office. I therefore refer briefly to what has already been said here on this subject. As regards the changes to the civil process contained in this draft law, however, I must repeat myself once again. The most serious and senseless amendment, in my opinion and of the whole Group of the Brothers of Italy, is the absurd and unconstitutional compression of the rights of the parties introduced by Article 3 of the bill, which provides a series of foreclosures and decadences on the part, never of the judge, that take place even before the audience of appearance. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, this is the late repositioning of the corporate rite, which has already been tested with failed results in the recent past and then repealed, in the general relief of lawyers and judges. You propose it again: if human wandering, persevering is diabolical. Brothers of Italy had tabled a number of amendments to ensure that, at least after the first appearance before the judge, a time limit was granted to specify and or supplement all their respective requests for inquiry. Amendments all rejected by the majority and by the Government, united in a vexatory attitude towards the parties and their defenders, which reveals how for you the demand for justice of the citizens is considered almost an annoyance: indeed, without almost. Or, perhaps, that attitude only shows how succubus you are of technicians who, locked in their offices at the Ministry, live on theory, but have no idea how a courtroom works in practice, where they probably never even set foot. [[Applause]] The National Council forensics, the civil chambers and, in general, all the Italian lawyers have launched repeated alarms and appeals, all of which you have failed, to point out the serious risk that this reform will cause, not a compression, but an extension of the times of the process, since, instead of intervening on the moment of the decision, where the greatest criticalities and the true delays are concentrated, it focuses on the introductory phase, and also extending schizophrenically precisely those times that it would like to shorten words. And this without ever providing for the consequences to the judge for the failure to respect the terms that are due to him. Alarms, those of lawyers, totally ignored by the government and, indeed, laughed at with this umpteenth confidence, the fourteenth of the Draghi era. It is almost as though, ladies and gentlemen, the 20 amendments proposed by my Group, the only amendments tabled by the House, were an obstacle to parliamentary debate, dear Minister. Compared to you, in your eyes, in the eyes of the Government of the best, who increasingly forgets that Italy is a parliamentary Republic. Lucky you're the government of the best! Imagine what would happen if you were an ordinary government, even the worst! [[Applause]] For God's sake, there are also measures in this bill that can be accepted, which Mr Unterberger mentioned earlier, such as, for example, the establishment of the family court and the new rules for foster care. In fact, matters that were not in the government bill, but were included by the Commission; matters on which Brothers of Italy had long presented proposals for law (a also at my first signature, I would like to remind you), to a large extent, today, finally transposed. On the whole, however, ladies and gentlemen, our judgment remains negative on this bill, because, as I have said and I repeat, its basic philosophy, which is too punitive towards the sacrosanct right of the citizen to address the judge in order to obtain the protection of his own reasons without having to overcome a path of obstacles that you make increasingly crooked and costly. This beginning with compulsory mediation, increased to more and more subjects, and continuing with a process full of formalisms, terms, decadences, foreclosures and real pitfalls, which will clearly penalise more and more precisely the weaker and helpless part. This is the grave vulnus caused by your reform. Yours is a prejudice that you show against the parties and their defenders; a prejudice that had even been moved to propose to introduce a rule to give for proof - think a little - all the facts set out in the act of citation in the case of default of the defendant. Think of what you were pushing, my colleagues in the majority! Fortunately, this rule was then withdrawn into a patch of modesty, one of the few that you had in this debate. However, other equally hateful and punitive rules have remained, such as the news of Article 116, second paragraph, of the Code of Civil Procedure, which introduces the authority of the judge to draw the argument of proof from the mere non-appearance of the party; draw evidence from the inactivity of the party and this is very serious. Even more serious is the financial penalty of up to 10,000 euros charged to the plaintiff who is being rejected the application for suspension of the sentence of first instance. Do you really think so, ladies and gentlemen, Minister? You, who have legal competence, believe and believe that measures such as these can shorten civil justice times by as much as 40% within the next three or four years? Let's be serious! I would understand Mr Bonafede, but you, Madam Minister, please be serious. There is no possibility in the world of resolving the lengths of justice by intervening only on the procedural rules, without substantial investment in the judges' staff. You know how many judges our staff lack: send some more to the courts and free seats for young people in your ministry, where there are only seconded judges [[Applause]] These lengths cannot be solved without integrating the judges' staff, without integrating administrative staff (40% of the administrative staff are missing in our chancellors) and without intervening on the organization of offices often left behind. It is in this area that the government's action was to be concentrated, if we really wanted to tackle the structural problems, that we do not resolve by taking on a few thousand young people and then in two or two and a half years' time we are faced with the problem of stabilizing them. We must tackle the structural problems of our justice, which have such a negative impact on the lives of citizens, businesses, investments, especially from abroad, and in essence on our GDP. It is not possible to do this by introducing abstract and brainy procedural norms, as you are doing with the bill under consideration: you did not have to do it, it is an alibi yours. For these reasons, colleagues, the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group will be decisively and firmly opposed [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u43	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, today we are voting on an important and very important measure, which at last tackles a huge problem not of politics but of Italian citizens and of the whole country and does so, I believe, in a fair, correct and convincing way. The reform of the civil process is fundamental for our country and today we not only approve a reform, but we have created the conditions for a good reform and to make it work. The point is that the reform of the civil process and the reform of the criminal and tax process is Europe's condition for access to funding from the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but that is not all, and that is not the reason why we have committed ourselves and today we are putting in place a reform of the civil process. In this country there are three million trials and civil causes behind. This is an issue that citizens suffer. They suffer from longevity and uncertainty. Our companies suffer as well as the possibilities for our country to attract investments from abroad. Today, however, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan allows us to really invest in the organization of justice, helps us create the conditions to put in place a reform that can work. I would like to remind you that we have hired and will hire 23,000 young people, 16,500 of whom will be engaged in the trial office, thanks to the PNRR. We invest 140 million in digitisation and thus put in place a positive experience that the long and difficult months of Covid have allowed us to experiment. Therefore, the reform can count on investments and clear objectives: to reduce backwardness, to give certain times to the procedural phases, to spread good practices and to reduce in this way the unbearable gap between the different realities of the country, which also mark the territorial differences, the differences of territorial competitiveness of the different parts of our country. It does so, I want to tell you, by creating a balance between the need to speed up, for citizens and in the interests of citizens, the processes, by not giving up, on the other hand, to guarantee the rights of the parties, to have fair proceedings. For us, Mrs. Minister, it's central, and I know it's central for you, too, the trial office. We have insisted very much on using this instrument on which an important amendment of ours has been adopted. The office of the trial, within the framework of the new organization, can really be a fundamental resource that can support the magistrates and allow them to concentrate on the sentences, having the strength and the staff to carry out the other tasks. We have put in place so many effective instruments and investments in this way. With this rule we have done another operation, trying to reduce the use of trial and courtrooms. It is right to encourage mediation; it is also right to encourage arbitration and assisted negotiation. We think this choice is important and qualifying. However, I believe, Minister, that there are two problems: we must not stop here, we can do more, we must encourage more, we must work because mediation, arbitration and assisted negotiation are more and more the priority tool in order not to get to the processes. In order to do this, however, it is necessary to intervene on accessibility and therefore on costs; they cannot be institutions intended only for those who have the economic conditions to afford them. We need to make them accessible to everyone. I would like to highlight the other proposals that we consider to be relevant to the work done by the Democratic Party in recent weeks. We have improved the legislation on judicial auctions, protecting more and better those who are subject to the sale of their apartment, but above all I think it is qualifying on the ground of legality, looking at recent facts that testify how organized crime uses judicial auctions to recycle its money, the choice to set up a database to collect the registry and the current accounts of those who participate in the auctions, to verify and give the prosecutions - of course only to them - the possibility of verifying anomalies. I think this is an important measure. As Senator Valente recalled, there is not only the family court, because with this law we have also improved the rules in mediation processes to protect minors and women who suffer violence. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us it is an important reform, fundamental for the country, which looks at the interests of citizens and companies and can allow us to overcome a condition that, faced with the uncertainty of the times, penalizes the economy and discourages investment. I really thank the Minister for the work and the determination for the decision to intervene with this measure on the bill presented by the last Government, improving it, putting to work many experts and obtaining a result that I consider very important. After years in which justice has only been a subject of political confrontation and propaganda, today and tomorrow we are putting in place two decisive reforms, with a broad consensus. In these two days we will demonstrate that reforms, including those on justice, can be done if there is the will and the assumption of responsibility on the part of everyone in front of the country. [[Applause]] We do not need referendums, we need to look forward and not back, we need reforms that make things better in practice without shortcuts and simplifications. We shall vote in favour of the bill. Minister, have no doubt. The government must have no doubts: on the path of reforms in the interests of citizens the Democratic Party is there and you will always meet it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u46	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, I shall continue to examine the measure which has already been discussed in general. As I cannot go into detail, I will confine myself to listing some guiding criteria that bring important new developments towards a change in the civil process. The process of first- instance cognition before the monocratic court is changed with a series of provisions that certainly make it easier, while preserving the effective protection of the parties and promoting a more reasonable duration. Cases in which the court judges in collegial composition have been reduced with regard to the objective legal complexity and the economic and social relevance of the dispute. In addition, allowing the judge to modulate procedural lapses in relation to complexity means introducing the possibility that the case may also be defined in a manner similar to those provided for before the monocratic court. On the other hand, before the court of peace the trial is united with the new proceedings before the court in monocratic composition. For the appeal, which means a full review of the dispute in civil law, a new filter is envisaged: an appeal which is not reasonably likely to be accepted and declared manifestly unfounded by a reasoned judgment. Again in the matter of appeal, the rule for which the contested measure is always enforceable is fixed, but with exceptions. Therefore, if the court considers that the appeal is unfounded or irreparable prejudices may result from the enforcement of the judgment, it may suspend its enforcement. The office for the trial is then strengthened, providing for new organisational criteria to support the activities of the magistrates. As we know, this is a reform on which we all aim to see an acceleration of the process at last. This rule will also allow - we hope - to dispose of the setback, but we will have to stabilize that staff well beyond the three years currently planned if we really want to mark a turning point in favour of efficiency. The reform also contains provisions aimed at modernising technological justice and, therefore, at speeding up civil proceedings seriously, providing for, for example, the filing of documents and documents to be carried out exclusively by telematic means. In order to facilitate the consultation of documents, the information is provided for in pre-constituted fields, in such a way that it is easier to enter into the procedural registers. They are all reforms which seem small, but which I think will bring good results, bringing a new order for those involved in the chaos of courts and chancellors. Finally, as regards notifications, it is expected that acts in civil and extrajudicial matters will be notified exclusively via JEP when the recipient has elected a digital domicile and is therefore entered in the public list of digital domiciles. This provision, which seems simple, really simplifies and accelerates the notification process and empowers the parties, requiring them to have a digital home. Finally, I particularly welcome the adoption in the Commission of a series of amendments which I have convincedly signed and which go further to ensure the protection of children and families within the new unified rite. On the family and judicial issues, justice today is divided - as we know - between ordinary courts and courts for minors, who are often the subject of conflicting and conflicting measures without any specific competence being established, especially when they intervene between separated or divorced parents. This is a historical step: from the ashes of the many divisions on the family, from the rite to the competent offices, a unique structure will finally be born like the court for people, minors and families. The rights of children born out of marriage are finally equal, even in the process. Mrs. Minister, as Filumena Marturano said, the children are children and they are all equal. The former functions of the juvenile court will not disappear, but will be performed by the district branch of the family court. The database for judicial auctions, which Mr Mirabelli spoke of, will finally be set up, and I fully agree with him, in order to make the data of the tenderers and the tenderers of judicial auctions available to the civil and criminal judicial authority. An important step to avoid criminal and lobbying infiltration. I'm going to conclude. A slow process will hardly be able to go hand in hand with viable alternative instruments. We have therefore spoken about the process of cognition - as we have already said - by making the judge responsible for the need to deepen the dispute and to take the reins of the trial from the first appearance hearing. In this sense, in addition to procedural reforms, it will be essential to put the offices in a real position to respect the terms of the Pinto law, so as to make the best use of those large funds that are intended to compensate those who suffer the delays of the justice system. It is clear that the numbers call for urgent reflection on the need for extraordinary recruitment, in addition to the one already planned, in order to eliminate at least part of the backlog of judgments. Mrs. Minister, you will have to write down, draw up and file judgments. That is the serious problem of civil law and civil procedure. Among the human resources projects one could think of further strengthening the staff of the ordinary judiciary, not only in numbers, but also through the honorary judiciary, finally regularizing their legal and economic status. The important innovations that I have illustrated and that will be introduced into the system when the Government exercises the delegation, will certainly be useful, but obviously not decisive. The objective that the Government and Parliament have set themselves, that is the acceleration of the processes and the reduction of the arrears (three million processes still pending will certainly not be able to disappear), will certainly not be achieved without incisive interventions in the matter of digitalization, improvement of the infrastructures, reorganization of the offices, increase of the competences of the administration. We expect the Government to fully exercise the delegation that the Senate gives it today, filling it with content with courage and without letting itself be entangled by the interests of category, so that a new and coherent apparatus can be created, capable of being balanced and efficient and competing with other European and international systems. This can happen if, beyond the temporary and provisional resources of the PNRR, a much more important role in the state budget can finally be assigned to justice. Justice for years, since I exercised other functions, has always been the Cinderella of the state budget. Let us try to change, because without these resources we will not be able to achieve a stable and lasting result. For these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal to the confidence placed by the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u49	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, I think I owe you a lot of thanks today, starting with the fact that you, with your intelligence, have been able to realise that some corrections had to be made. We at Forza Italia have been committed from the beginning because, without the need to plant flags, we wanted to make a contribution exclusively so that the reform of the process was successful. The first question we need to realise is that any reform of the trial cannot be valid, especially for the civil one, if we forget that the civil trial is based on the availability of the parties and that introducing unofficial powers of the judge in the civil process contradicts the philosophy of the trial, delaying its conclusion. She, therefore, had the intelligence to abandon the old idea of everything with appeal, but to keep the quotation for collegial judgment. At the same time it accepted a fundamental rule: in the introductory acts of the judgment cannot be placed prejudices and decadences. You have correctly taken into account a strong indication of the Court of Cassation and - I would not like to be mistaken - also of the Constitutional Court. In the introductory acts of the process there shall be no decadence. She correctly - we followed her - said that we must keep the first audience free and, therefore, extend the time for the introductory act of judgment and in the first audience of appearance we introduce the possibility of new memories between the parties. There are, however, still some aspects that need to be corrected and I hope that you can do so. You were present when I insisted, because some dysfunctions stem from bad behavior of the judges. When we are faced with proceedings in the chamber of council, the rule says that it is possible to delegate a member of that college to carry out investigative activities. I had to table an amendment and, although the translation is not quite accurate, I hope that the interpretation can be clear. He was present when we all agreed that the delegate cannot delegate another, as happened by delegation of an honorary court g iudice (GOT). I am not saying that the GOT did not have the capacity to do so, but having no other commitments extended the time of the trial further. The attempt at conciliation has escaped; it has remained. It is not possible; the attempt to reconcile must be made in all the trials and not only in those of the family. If you remember, I have tabled an amendment which has not passed, but which should only be mandatory when the judge by order admits the evidence because it favours conciliation because lawyers understand, through reading the order of inquiry, where the judge wants to go and have more opportunity to convince the parties. It cannot even be ruled out that if I do not appear at the conciliation hearing, my conduct must be assessed under Article 116 of the Code of Civil Procedure. These are two completely different issues: conciliation is about personal activities, but it cannot have a procedural consequence on the process. It will also delay all attempts at conciliation. Please consider this. I know that a debate has been held in this House, but I was not there that day. However, there is a strong intention on the part of everyone. There is no desire to take time or to give space to professional categories, but we do a battle in the exclusive interest of the system, to ensure that the process has its own functionality. Minister, in our country we have 56 first-degree judicial offices, which carry out civil judicial activity in line with the reasonable time of the trial provided for in our Constitution. Therefore, when we look at the offices of the trial, we must take account of this fact and modulate the relationship between the judges and the officers of the trial, and not only in a direct way, but also in such a way as to counteract the greater inefficiency of some offices. In fact, something is wrong: if 56 first-degree judicial offices have times in line with the constitutional precept of the reasonable duration of the trial, it means that others, who do not have such times, are not in line with those activities. Mr. Minister, I'm going to talk about the family court, so I owe you one more thank you. I entered the judiciary in 1970 and was in love with the idea of Maria Elettra Martini, deputy of Lucca, who, just a few years earlier, had launched the idea of the family court. And finally, thanks to another woman who has illustrated our country, maybe we can get it into force. But if we live for years with this illusion and - if you will - with such a dream, we cannot let it enter into force in 2024. We must let him enter next year, because these are already existing structures and we do not therefore need to wait long. In the family court, however, we must ensure certain things and first of all that the attempt at conciliation is effective. I say this not because I have been doing that kind of activity for years: even when I was doing criminal law, I continued to be interested in the family court. So, Minister, if you want to speed up the intervention time, with the interim measures, against a couple who are fighting - even considering that, in recent times, this has often given rise to serious acts of violence, with an impact on the children present in that family - you cannot fail to feel the need for a measure within three months, which are already a maximum time. Instead, we have been witnessing the fact, since all judges make presidential hearings, that the times are not less than eight months: this is the reality and it is completely abnormal. There is no need for epochal reforms, but this legislation, in order to function, must be accompanied by knowledge of the problems and also by some structures - if you want - that are indicative of what the behaviors must be. For example, in the norm it is written that the parties, i.e. the parents, are listened to separately. No! They must be heard separately and then united. I can tell you that the person holding the presidential hearing is not a President - it is the hearing in which the conciliation is attempted - but must have such skills and vocational training that, with respect to the parties, he becomes like a priest, managing to have confidences that the other judges do not have. In conclusion, do not consider that the intervention of the prosecutor is entirely secondary. Let me give you just one example: I performed the functions of prosecutor in criminal proceedings during all the processes of clean Hands in Milan, but in the same years, working also on Sunday, I made the written conclusions in the processes of separation and divorce. I can tell you, Minister, that the strong presence of the prosecutor - statistical data that can be consulted - led to about 45-50 per cent of trials that were closed with the agreement of the parties. This is true justice: the agreement of the parties to which we must all strive. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u52	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, Secretary-General, I am very pleased to have this opportunity to thank you very much for the work that has been done. Civil justice is a bit of a cinderella in our country, because for a long time we have been concerned about criminal justice. We certainly also had a history that forced us to do so: let us think about the terrorism emergency or the criminal organizations. However, civil justice must not be considered as a "B" series, because it meets those uneliminable demands of justice that dwell in the heart of every man, of every family, and that touch very deep cords of our fellow citizens. Therefore, we cannot really think that this is a secondary topic; indeed, it is a matter of primary importance to meet the needs of our companies, which must be internationally competitive and must be able to rely on swift justice and - as far as possible in this world - just. It is a reform that has some very positive aspects. I believe - for example - that the office of the trial is an extraordinary opportunity to speed up the times of justice, to guarantee quality to the work of judges and also to give answers to modern citizens and to the pace of the times. The fact of having borrowed from the Anglo-Saxon system the figure of the law clerk is certainly a strong point of this reform. Minister, we would have liked - you know this, we have told you specifically in our meetings - time limits for judges as well, but we trust you and the amendment you wanted to accept in the form of an agenda so that the career advances of the judges are linked to the observance of the procedural terms, so that prepared judges, attentive and even respectful of the terms can see their career progress and the proper recognition of their merit. The recruitment of judges is also good, because we cannot think of making reforms at no cost. The real reform of justice is to take on more judges, and you are doing so, Minister. We acknowledge this and thank you for taking this courageous path. We have a substantial part of the reform devoted to family law, and we are absolutely pleased that you have decided to maintain in this reform the whole part of the family process, which, on the other hand, risked being removed. We are very happy because that of family law is a reform that goes to touch even deeper strings in the hearts of our citizens, of our families, of our dads, of mothers, but above all it is a justice that involves the rights of the people who are most dear to us, that is, of children, of minors. To them we owe the utmost attention and care so that they can grow in a balanced, serene way, and so that the State can guarantee them - as far as possible - the privilege of growing with Mom and Dad. Precisely for this reason we believe that the reform on family law began with the right foot, and this through the choice to recover the court for the family, which the Luiso commission had pointed out as a priority, but which risked getting lost in the folds of the reform on economic issues. We therefore take this opportunity to stress the courage of this Minister, but also of this majority, to ensure that there is a specialised court for the family. It is no longer acceptable that there are situations in which the same judge is called upon to decide on family matters and after ten minutes he may be summoned to the specialised section of agricultural law and after ten minutes he is still part of the composition of the court for companies. It can't be like that. Family law has its own peculiarity, it has its own necessary specialization, and - as I have already said - it affects the majority of rights that are not available and that must be protected with the greatest possible caution and care. We are very pleased that very clear aspects have been included in this reform, which seek to remedy some regulatory gaps whose gravity, unfortunately, we have seen in connection with the events that have occurred in Bibbiano. It was no longer possible to maintain a system of voids for which the placement of children in the household took place, in some cases, even without judicial control. And we are very pleased that judicial measures are necessary for any kind of decision concerning minors and that in any case the placement in the household is only residual and only when no different alternatives have been identified. This is fundamental, as is the whole part that we felt we wanted to plead and that then became an integral part of this reform in relation to the necessary participation of parents in conflict with each other whenever there is the presence of the curator or the need to appoint the curator of the child. Unfortunately we have had cases abroad sadly known, in which jurisdictions other than ours have appointed the curator of the minor - I am thinking for example of the case of Alfie Evans or that of Charlie Gard - for the sole purpose of making decisions contrary to the concrete interest of the minor as had been reported by his parents. This will not happen in Italy thanks to the reform. There is still a very important part that concerns changes in the process of separation and divorce. The unification of rites is very positive, because it is essential that there be a united rite because we are talking about children's rights and children must all be treated in the same way. There are, in my opinion, the strengths of this reform that keep in mind a balance not only procedural, but also ideological or ideal, if we want to use a more beautiful and cleaner word. This ideal balance starts from the assumption that there are situations of violence that need to be secured and in front of which we cannot transition and no one can think of transiting. This reform also takes into account - as it is right that both - that action should be taken in the same way when there are situations of exploitation of the minor child or even situations in which one of the parents has the right to prohibit, to prevent, to prevent obstacles to the encounter of the minor, with freedom and serenity, with the other parent. We must send a very clear message from this House: gender violence is extremely serious and any form of gender violence must be punished in the most severe way, but it is also very serious to exploit the child, to exploit gender violence, to use false denunciations to demolish the opponent, the other parent. This is a course that cannot be tolerated and this reform puts - in my opinion - serious obstacles to the fact that such conduct is carried out in our country. It is very positive - for example - that the amendment provides for a daily fine for the parent who voluntarily avoids the decisions of the judge in the matter of custody of the child: the decisions of the judge are respected, especially when they are in the interests of the child. There are rules of rebalancing that we considered very useful, first of all that of the parental plan: we find a common ground on which dad and mom can meet and work in the interests of the child. Unfortunately, we would have preferred more courage in this reform, but I also realize that the political and concrete conditions did not allow it. However, while not taking significant steps, in the sense of achieving a materially shared trust, there are some very important points. As I said, there is the parental plan: a common space, a common ground on which mom and dad can confront each other, not put against each other by the dispute separation with charge, which unfortunately we did not cancel but which I hope will soon be deleted, but put next to each other in alliance and collaboration, in the interest of the minor. There are people who are close to the couple: there is the family mediator, who is finally recognized in his great dignity, according to the provisions of Law No. 4 of 2013. There are many other interventions that we are absolutely in favour of: first of all the limitation of the spaces that are left to social services today, which do not always have to respond to the judge; the video recording of the child, the complaint to the college. There are many aspects that are absolutely valid. There are other aspects that we like less, but what is more important is that we finally had the courage to put the question of family law and to solve it - in our opinion - in a completely appropriate way. For this reason I declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u55	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, Senators, the bill delegates the reform of the civil process to the House after a long and fruitful work carried out in the Justice Commission and at the tables of the Ministry. This reform is part of Italy's commitments with the European institutions under the PNRR. It is a conquest of the Count II Government that will mark the development of this country in the coming years. But it is also a reform that the Movimento 5 Stars set as the pillar of this legislature from the beginning, with Minister Alfonso Bonafede. We worked on the text of the bill already in 2019 and today in the Senate we see the goal of a strategic measure for citizens and for the Italian economy. Making access to the protection of rights more agile and faster will bring broad and widespread benefits also in the economic field. There is no doubt that slow and cumbersome justice is inevitably a brake on development, a constant sense of uncertainty in citizens and economic operators. The Plan, started at the end of 2018, with the first budget law of this legislature, then continued with other economic appropriations, with the so-called corrupted law and then with the bill of reform of the criminal process. It is an organic plant for the overall review of justice in Italy and finds its first pillar in the strengthening of the staff, from the magistrates and officials of the courts. We are talking about thousands of recruitments, a recruitment plan that has been conceived entirely by the Count 2 Government and carried out by the current Government. We are talking about many people who enter the offices to carry out the work: a decisive piece, without which there is no reform able to speed up justice. Today we conclude in the Senate the examination of another pillar, the revision of civil proceedings. Reducing quarrels in our country is essential. It was therefore chosen to try to reduce litigation, encouraging alternative rites to the process, such as mediation, assisted negotiation and arbitration. The cases in which an attempt at conciliation is needed before recourse to the courts have been extended and tax incentives and benefits have been provided. For example, in the event of a successful conclusion of the mediation procedure with the agreement of the parties, it will be possible to obtain a tax credit equal to the compensation of the lawyer who assists them. In addition, state sponsorship and alternative rites have been extended to allow the poor to use mediation and assisted negotiation for the protection of their rights. I would like to focus briefly on assisted negotiation, an instrument on which we wanted to focus, already from the original text presented by the then Minister of Movimento 5 Stars, Alfonso Bonafede. The delegation law makes this institute effective for alternative dispute resolution and allows - here is the most important novelty - an extrajudicial education activity, which gives lawyers a new significant and useful role for all parties. We have thus sought to strengthen a parallel track, which will continue to reduce the use of cases in the courts. Attorneys will be able to carry out an investigation which today is at the head of the judge. In the event of non-agreement, the material may be re-used in court. Here, therefore, are the three obvious advantages: an encouragement towards the transactive solutions, a saving of time and the valorization of the lawyer's work. As a Chief Justice Officer in the Commission, I am very pleased with the adoption of several important amendments tabled by the Movimento 5 Stars. Among these, I would like to mention an amendment that gives a new role of assistance to job consultants, enhancing skills and professions. In particular, the parties are allowed to be assisted in individual labour disputes, as well as by lawyers, including labour consultants. Being able to have fast justice means having the security to protect your rights in a timely manner, without compromising economic activities. From this point of view, the executive process and the introductory phases of the ordinary rite were also simplified. To speed up the civil processes and dispose of the backward has focused on the strengthening of the new office of the process, to which will be destined technical professionalism. The chancellors will be strengthened with new recruitments of qualified personnel, which will allow to reorganize the functioning of the administration of justice, which reduces serious shortages of staff, to which finally in this legislature - as I said before - with a work started in 2018, we remedy. This new reform establishes the family court, in which all lawsuits related to family and juvenile law will be brought together. In this way, on such sensitive and important issues, where it is often necessary to decide quickly, judges will be able to deepen their competences. This will also benefit from making more predictable and specific decisions. Finally, attempts were made to bring to a regime experienced management experiences during the pandemic, focusing on the use of technology for the digitisation of processes. The pandemic has forced us to face enormous difficulties, but it is giving us the opportunity to use considerable resources for structural reforms in a short time. The reform of civil justice is essential for the lives of citizens and economic operators investing in Italy. For this reason Italy deserves agile and modern justice. I would like to thank former Minister Bonafede for all the work he has done since the process of this reform began and has come to Parliament. I would like to thank Minister Cartabia for the effort she has made with the various political forces, at the end of which we can say that we have achieved an excellent result. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u56	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill no. 1662, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Rojc is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Rojc. PUGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill no. 1662, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 232 Senators voting 231 Majority 116 Favorable 201 Contrari 30]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] All amendments and agendas submitted to draft law No 1662 are therefore withdrawn or precluded. The draft law No 311 is also absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-361.ana.u58	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.47 p.m.
