ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2409. The rapporteur, Senator Augussori, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u5	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 139 of 8 October 2021 sets out urgent measures for access to cultural sporting and recreational activities as well as for the organisation of public administrations and the protection of personal data. The measure consists of ten articles divided into four chapters. In the context of Chapter I, Article 1 shall read Decree-Law No 52 of 2021; in particular, it shall amend, with effect from 11 October 2021, the rules on the conduct in white and yellow areas of shows open to the public in theatres, concert halls, cinemas, entertainment venues and live music, and in other venues or spaces also outdoors. Without prejudice to the obligation of access with one of the Covid-19 green certifications, it is generally established that: in the yellow areas pre-assigned seats remain, the interpersonal distance of at least one meter and the permitted capacity of not more than 50% of the maximum authorised capacity; in white areas it is no longer necessary to respect the interpersonal distance of at least one meter and the permitted capacity is equal to the maximum authorised capacity. An amendment, first signed by Senator Grassi, resolved an interpretative question on the scope of application with regard to the non-necessity of the seats preassigned to sit. It is also provided that, in the case of shows open to the public held in places normally intended for sporting events and competitions, the provisions relating to the capacity allowed in spaces intended for the public in those places apply. In addition, for outdoor shows, when the public, even in part, accesses them without pre-assigned seats and without maximum authorized capacity limits, specific provisions are introduced aimed at preventing the spread of contagion and the protection of public order and security. A further arrangement allows activities in white areas that take place in dance halls, discos and similar venues, in compliance with the 75 percent capacity limits of the maximum permitted outdoor and 50 percent indoors. Access is allowed only to persons with green certification and in indoor spaces the presence of ventilation systems without air recirculating must be guaranteed. The discipline on the participation of spectators in sporting events is also being modified. The main innovations concern the increase in the capacity limit of the structures intended to accommodate the public: in the white zone the capacity may not exceed 75% of the maximum permitted outdoor capacity and 60% indoor capacity; in the yellow zone these percentages are respectively 50% and 35%. It is also expected that the obligation to respect the interpersonal spacing and the forecast of pre-assigned seating will cease to exist in the white zone. Access to facilities in the white zone is only allowed to persons with green certification; it is also extended to sporting events that take place indoors the possibility to establish a different maximum percentage of capacity allowed in relation to the evolution of the epidemiological situation and in accordance with the principles established by the Technical and Scientific Committee. In case of violation of the rules on capacity and green pass the administrative sanction of the closure from one to ten days from the second violation applies. Among the changes introduced are, for dance rooms, the equivalence to the ventilation systems of high efficiency filtration systems that can reduce the presence of the virus in the air (with amendment 1.8 signed by Senator Perosino). In addition, an additional article introduced by amendment 1.0.1, signed by Senator Ferrara, simplified ways of accessing certain events such as carnivals and historical re-enactments. Article 2 amends the rules on openness to the public in white and yellow areas of museums and other institutes and places of culture, as well as exhibitions. In particular, subject to the other forecasts, it provides that from 11 October 2021 the interpersonal distance of at least one metre between visitors is no longer necessary. Article 3 provides for the integration of the transitional framework valid for the period from 15 October to 31 December 2021, which requires public and private workers to hold a valid Covid-19 green certificate for access to the workplace. In the present case, in the event of an employer's request arising from specific organisational requirements to ensure effective work planning, workers are required to make communications relating to the possession or absence of such a certificate with appropriate notice to meet these requirements. The government amendment 3.0,1000 has allocated additional resources to the Special Commissioner for Health Emergency. With the sub-amendment 3.0.1000/1, signed by Senator Riccardi, the Commission has foreseen that for the provincial elections of 18 December, in order to facilitate the distancing, further decentralised seats can be identified. In Chapter II, Article 4 provides for a new organization of the Ministry of Health in Directorates-General coordinated by a Secretary-General; the number of general management-level structures, including the Secretary-General, is increased from 13 to 15. Article 5 provides for the temporary provision of additional staff by the Central Bureau for the referendum at the Court of Cassation, in order to allow the timely examination of requests for referendums filed by 31 October 2021. The choice by the promoters of the referendum on justice not to deposit signatures, but to proceed with the request through the regional councils has greatly simplified the verification operations by the Central Office. With the amendment adopted 5.2, which was signed by Senator Calderoli, the human and financial resources made available have been reduced, giving concrete effect to the savings that were sought in this way. Article 6, in addition to extending to the 2021 session the exceptional provisions established for the examination of the qualification to the profession of lawyer last year, introduces the obligation of green passes for access to the local members to carry out the tests. In Chapter III, Article 7 increases the budget of the National Asylum Policy and Services Fund (FNPSA) for the three-year period 2021-2023 in order to activate a further 3,000 reception posts for asylum seekers as a result of the political crisis in Afghanistan. Amendment 7.1, signed by Senator Pirovano, approved by the Commission, aims to specify that these resources are intended for asylum seekers from that country and not for other purposes. Article 8 reports Article 19 of Law No 38 of 2001, laying down rules to protect the Slovenian linguistic minority of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. In particular, it has provisions for the return to the Slovenian community of the property located in Trieste and known as Narodni Dom, owned by the University of Trieste, where the activity of the school of studies in modern languages for interpreters and translators is currently carried out. Two buildings are provided at the same university as compensation, one of which will become the new seat of the school. Article 9, which introduces Chapter IV, lays down provisions extending the legal basis for the processing of personal data carried out for the performance of a task of public interest or related to the exercise of public authority, which redesign certain powers of the Data Protection Supervisor. The article has been entirely replaced by an amendment by the rapporteur that represents the synthesis between the requests of the Privacy Supervisor, the Government's needs to simplify the matter of the protection of personal data for public purposes, in order to accelerate the administrative mechanisms also according to the PNRR, and some reports received by the Groups through the amendments. I considered it preferable to table an entirely replacement amendment, rather than making an excessive number of punctual changes, in order to avoid the risk of distorting the overall meaning of the rule, also in view of the possibility of sub-implementing the text to make further improvements, which in fact took place with the approval of several sub-amendments. In particular, the new wording of the amendments to Article 2-b of Legislative Decree No 196 of 2003, the Code on the protection of personal data, ensures greater guarantees with the extension of the legal basis to process personal data in the performance of a task of public interest, including administrative acts of general scope, so as to limit the discretion of the administration. It is, moreover, an amendment proposed by the Privacy Supervisor during his hearing in the Commission, also in order to align Italian legislation with the European Regulation. As regards the dissemination of communications of personal data for the performance of a task of public interest, it is expected that it will be notified to the Guarantor at least ten days before the beginning of the communication or dissemination, in order to allow it to intervene with its own measures. A specific rule on personal data relating to health has been inserted because of their particular relevance; in this case, in fact, the prior opinion of the Guarantor is provided, precisely in order to increase the protection of this sensitive information. With regard to the revenge porn, taking inspiration from the audition of the attorney chief of Rome, Michele Prestipino, was also inserted a reference to audio recordings, in addition to the images and videos, of which it is forbidden to broadcast. In addition, an additional burden has been provided for operators of digital platforms, who will have to keep a copy of the material subject to the alert for evidence for the possible prosecution, which obviously takes longer than the intervention of the Guarantor, which by its nature must be timely and immediate. The wording of Article 9 has been further improved by sub-amendments. I recall, as regards the rules on revenge porn, the extension to each computer document within their scope, with sub-amendment 9,100/26, to the first signature of Senator De Petris; the abolition of the need for a violation of Article 612-b of the Criminal Code, with sub-amendment 9,100/30 at the first signature of Senator Perilli; the extension from nine to twelve months of the obligation to retain the material by the platforms addressed to the Guarantor's measures, with sub-amendment 9,100/34, to the first signature of Senator Perilli; the obligation to transmit the alert by the Guarantor to the judicial authority in case of official procedure, with sub-amendment 9,100/27, to the first signature of Senator Perilli. In view of the new important functions assigned to the Guarantor, a sub-amendment submitted by all the Groups provided for the strengthening of its organic role, with a corresponding allocation of resources; I refer to identical sub-amendments from 9,100/35 to 9,100/40. In addition, provisions have been introduced concerning the register of oppositions to protect the user against automated calling systems, which are now increasingly widespread, with identical sub-amendments 9,100/62, at the first signature of Senator Riccardi, and 9,100/63, at the first signature of Senator Valente. Finally, until the end of 2023, the installation and use of video surveillance systems with facial recognition systems in public places or open to the public were suspended, with the sub-amendment 9,100/64 (text 2) of Senator Ferrari. The safeguard clause for regions with special status was introduced as a practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u7	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the most acute and demanding phase of the pandemic was managed by the Conte II Government, with difficult and drastic choices, sometimes unpopular, but necessary to stop the spread of the virus and to support in the best possible way the economic activities seriously involved and upset by the pandemic emergency. The Draghi Government has continued on this path and, strong of the success of the vaccination campaign and of the high one, the index of membership to it, especially if compared to that of other European countries, has been able to begin the gradual and progressive process of return to normality, of resumption of all economic activities, of reopening of services and structures, always in compliance with the norms of safety and protection and the due attention that each of us must have towards the health of others. To resume a sociality, a relationship that involves us in emotions, to live and share together, with participation in events, events, engaging moments of healthy collective sharing, was the concrete hope and the heartbreaking thought during the most difficult moments of the pandemic. Seeing the current difficult situation that other European countries are experiencing, forced to lockdown more or less partial and to face numbers of contagions and victims from Covid-19 significantly higher than the current ones of our country, confirms that the path followed is the right one, beyond the many difficulties that realistically constellate it and the different criticism of partisan, often made to seek consensus and visibility or mere political propaganda. Certainly mistakes have been made, but on the other hand it is not wrong who does not work or who does not have the responsibility to decide. They have often been the result of the difficult coordination between the different structures involved in the emergency or of the problems related to the relationship between the central direction cabin and the different regional and local realities. However, we need to move forward, with stubbornness and responsibility, and above all to follow the guidelines of science and those who have the scientific skills and the recognized requirements to make observations and give judgments. [[Applause]] We need to do this not by foot, but with the appropriate considerations, elaborations and political assessments, these last results, undoubtedly, of the comparison between the different souls who have the responsibility to govern and to plan the best choices and directions for our country, to take it out of the health, social and economic emergency that the pandemic has provoked. In order to do all this in the best way, however, we need loyalty and frankness in the relations and confrontation between the different political forces, while recognizing the more or less marked differences and the different opinions that each position certainly entails. Despite this, some political forces have often had obnoxious positions and swinging attitudes, often the result of mere political calculation, electoral propaganda or evaluations resulting from the variability of poll percentages. The 5 Star Movimento has always maintained a clear, firm, firm and linear line. You don't have to wink - as someone does one day yes and another as well - at no vax or get the favors and benevolence of no green passes. The only important thing is the protection of the health of the individual and of the community and do everything possible to safeguard it, acting in this direction. As our President Conte has repeatedly said, the protection of public health comes first of all. Scientific directives must be followed, stimulate, raise awareness, inform, disseminate and expand the vaccination course. Give great impetus to the green pass, as a measure of containment of the spread of the pandemic, as a concrete possibility of returning to normality in all areas of the life of our community and as a means of respecting the health of the individual citizen, fragility and people in difficulty. All this is also in the possibility offered to anyone to make different choices and to have different opinions, but they must not - this is important - be imposed on others, mortifying or precluding others, representing the majority, moments of sociality or even representing a danger or a risk to the health of the community. We need consistency and a sense of responsibility, always putting the public's interests first. These are the cornerstones of the continuous and constant work carried out by Movimento 5 Stars, always, every day and in every initiative and that represent the lifeblood of the measures present on the political agenda. [[Applause]] Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to express my personal solidarity with the 5 Star Movimento Group in the Senate and I believe in the entire Senate Chamber, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Luigi Di Maio, for the yet another and very serious threat received directly and clearly from ISIS terrorists. Closeness and support to Luigi Di Maio who, in his delicate institutional role, demonstrates, with his commitment and concrete actions, that Italy is at the forefront against terrorism and does not go back in front of these vile intimidating messages. The threats of ISIS to our owner of the Farnesina confirm once again, if ever there were any need, the degree of mental exaltation, the unrighteousness and the deplorable aggressive actions of perverse minds, prey to apparent mystical delusions of exaltation, but in reality thirsting for violence, hatred and blood, which find their roots in a becero religious paradise and enslaved to false ideologies. Our response must be firm, determined and unanimous. Our country is at the forefront of the international stabilisation process and is united in the face of violence from wherever it comes from. We are all with Luigi Di Maio and to defend the security of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u9	Mr President, undersecretary Sileri, ladies and gentlemen, today's speech has become necessary to talk about a decree adopted in the context of the complex management of the epidemiological curve in our country. I am pleased that, on this subject too, the Dragons Government has shown itself and continues to show itself in continuity with the Count Government. In continuity in the sense that it has continued and followed up on what has been done since the early stages of the pandemic, with the difference that in March 2020 we met the unknown while today we know the enemy better and we also have more effective weapons to fight it. I would also like to highlight other aspects of continuity between the Count Government and the Dragon Government, insofar as the latter exists only thanks to the achievements of the former. In this respect, I cannot fail to mention the fund guaranteed by the European Union budget. Without the false motivations presented last winter, magically disappeared from the political debate and from the agencies' reels, it seems clear that the intention of most of the Parliamentary hemicycle was to manage the more than 200 billion obtained by Giuseppe Conte and to be able to take the merits. Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's, colleagues. It seems fair and correct to me, despite the narration concerned you try to disorient. But so much so: we will fight with stubbornness and tenacity to claim the goodness of our work. Moreover, there are already numerous announcements and proclamations from Ministers and Subsecretaries, who have not wasted time to announce the departure of projects financed precisely thanks to the funds obtained only because of the stubbornness of Count and the Movimento 5 Stars and I do not find it difficult to think that this will be the trend, at least until the elections of 2023. On the other hand, the Draghi Government, in fact, is dealing with the return to normality, with the contagions under control, albeit in slight growth, and the implementation of the PNRR and therefore, in essence, is building on the solid foundations laid by the previous Executive, without which Italy today would not have this great opportunity to relaunch. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law in question is not an exception either. Moreover, it has not been long since I spoke in this House announcing the need, in favour of citizens and businesses, to proceed without hesitation to new reopenings, especially once the effects of the restaurants have been completed, and that is precisely what this decree-law is about. With this measure, in fact, which introduces new provisions within Decree-Law No. 52 of 2021, the so-called reopening decree, it was finally possible to reopen to 100 percent of the capacity, both outdoors and indoors, in the white area, of theaters, concert halls, cinemas, places of culture, entertainment venues and live music, but also of dance halls and discos, 75 percent outdoors and 50 percent indoors, and we have also returned to fill palazzetti and stadiums. These are numbers and percentages that do not make the idea of exactly what this measure means. You think that in many cases these are activities that have been closed since the beginning of the pandemic: I quote, for example, the most striking case, that of discotheques and dance halls, which have been closed for almost twenty months, virtually seamlessly. We are talking about about about 3,000 activities and more than 100,000 jobs, and so we must not only think about the playful purpose of those who benefit from it, but about the thousands of families who live through these activities and who have been unemployed all this time, as well as their source of income. The trade fair and congressional sector, the only one still subjugating to the limits of capacity of 50 percent, had been excluded from the decree-law. Like Movimento 5 Stars, we decided to respond immediately to their requests and during the examination in the Commission, together with Senators Croatti and Toninelli, while withdrawing amendment 1.15 and subsequent texts, with which it was intended to increase to 100% the capacity allowed for conferences and conferences in the white zone, we obtained the approval of a binding agenda - I repeat: binding - which transposes this request, which must be resolved by 30 November. As far as trade fairs are concerned, this approved agenda also allows them to be carried out in public areas, both in the white zone and in the yellow zone, without restrictions in terms of capacity, provided that the protocols and guidelines are complied with. In order to allow full participation in trade fairs, it is also guaranteed free entry from abroad into the national territory, without prejudice to the obligations foreseen in relation to the territory of origin. The measure in question, however, cannot and must not be considered to be adversely affected by the actual evolution of the epidemiological curve and the other alert parameters that can determine the degree of risk for each region. In the last few days we are witnessing a growth of the contagions, which should not be underestimated. So the reopenings are good, but do not abdicate the controls, which must be even greater, in order to ensure compliance with the precautionary measures that remain to prevent new restrictions in all ways. With the hope, for all of us, that we will no longer have to discuss this kind of decrees and finally be able to dedicate the totality of our work to economic growth and the revival of Italy, we will therefore continue with the budget law to find solutions for citizens, without forgetting the superbonus, which is suffering undeserved attacks. Complicating simple things seems an activity that goes for the greater, but the Movimento 5 Stars, with the help of the carriers of common sense, will not allow it and will undertake to make understandable a measure that is so much being done for the efficiency and improvement of the homes of the Italians. Thank you and good work to all of us, with particular regard to the carriers of common sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u11	Mr President, we are faced with the conversion into law of Decree-Law 139, which has been called a decree of capacity, but in reality only one article can refer to the title of the measure, which has changed, increasing it, access to public places both outdoors and indoors, as regards entertainment, culture or sport. In fact, the decree does not speak of anything else and the first consideration and the first critical importance that I have in my personal name - but that I am sure they are shared by the whole Group - concerns the method that has been used to talk about so many other topics within this measure, which only casually can be defined as a decree of capacities. We are faced with an indistinct molasses of distinct and distant arguments, without homogeneity of matter, that would have deserved all a more in-depth treatment, which would have made each of them more dignified. In this way, however, we are dealing with a number of subjects in a hasty manner and in the general indifference of this House, which - I repeat - would have deserved a different attention. This is yet another mortification towards Parliament, which we, the Brothers of Italy, want to denounce forcefully. The first, therefore, is a severe criticism of the method against this measure. As I said, only one article refers to the capacities; the others began to range from the issues of the Ministry of Health to move to the central offices of the referendum, to the state exams for the qualification to the exercise of the profession of lawyer during the emergency Covid and, again, to the increase of the budget of the National Fund for Asylum Policies and Services (FNPSA), as well as to the provisions to protect the Slovenian linguistic minority in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, to finish with the provisions on personal data. It is a sort of mini omnibus, in which the skills, particularly mentioned in the title, have been given a very minimal attention. Having exhausted this first analysis of the method of the measure, I shall confine myself here to raising some points concerning certain aspects of the only article which, from the point of view of the epidemiological emergency, has considered to address issues related to the frequency of certain public places. It should be acknowledged that there is an increase from 50 to 75 per cent in the capacity of open spaces (with reference to white areas, because other obligations remain for yellow areas), while it is maintained to 60 per cent in indoor areas. Those that have been introduced, however, are rules that can be considered only partially acceptable, also because they are nevertheless conditioned - this obviously applies to all contexts of public life - to the exhibition of the green pass. This, in fact, already in itself has strongly conditioned the possibility of getting acceptable figures within the places that hosted these kinds of events, which - except for rare occasions - have allowed the achievement of a sufficient public roof, because precisely the limitation of the green pass has inevitably produced difficulties for access to these places. In highlighting some aspects of this measure, beyond that closely linked to the difficulties of the economy related to this type of event, which however has only been partially restarted, I would like to emphasize a collateral intervention compared to those related to the restarting of the economy of the entertainment world. I refer, in particular, to the problems of the world of sport, which, compared to others, has a peculiarity that is not linked to the development of activity, but to the financial system that has been identified by the State to support it. This measure would have deserved to be treated differently, if only because the frequency of the stadiums - and here I am referring to professional sport - is linked to some side aspects, as I said earlier, due to the possibility that the financial machine of sport, of football in particular, falls with benefits on the whole national sports system. I say this because our sports system has always been strongly linked to some mutual profiles that have put football at the center of national sport and that have allowed to bring back the benefits coming from football activity on the whole national sports movement. This has happened since the post-war period: even until 2000 the world of football, through Totocalcio, has managed to produce resources necessary for the maintenance of the whole world of sport. From 2000 onwards, however, the public contribution has been linked to the tax revenue produced by the sports world, and then, through contributions, to pay the necessary support to the sports world itself, up to the present day, to 2018, when the budget law has changed the national sports law, identifying 32 percent of the tax revenue produced by sport the minimum contribution to be made in favour of the whole sports system. This measure - when we talk about 32% we are referring to a minimal aspect of tax revenue - has given the opportunity to exceed this figure over the last two years, which in 2019 and 2020 has produced very important returns for the world of sport, to which some 200 million more have been paid according to the excess of tax revenue. So restart the economy of football... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I would like to point out that I will be the only one to speak for my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u12	Senator Barbaro, I've actually already given you an extra minute or two. In any case, my call was only to remind you, as usual, that there is one minute left at the end of your speech, but I will conclude it quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u13	BARBARO (FdI). Thank you. Going back to the mutual aspects related to the world of football, but also to all other professional sports, as regards entry into the stadiums, I wanted to point out that the difficulties that have arisen due to the post-pandemic effects, which have generated a financial crisis in all sectors of civil society, in particular in the world of sport, is added the impossibility of maintaining ordinary measures that could not be ensured through the regular influx to the stadiums and this measure has confirmed it. We are therefore faced not only with the impossibility of restarting the activity in an ordinary way, but also with a measure that in fact limits the ordinary influx of contributions that are recorded annually thanks to the tax revenues that sport generates. Really starting to conclude, the hope is that these considerations can be added to those that our country should reserve for football, which in fact is not only the most important sport in the country, but also, as I said earlier, the locomotive that drives our entire sports system, but is the object of an inattention that passes through other problems. I am referring to the legislation on stadiums, which is inadequate and insufficient, the tax concessions, which are not always granted in relation to sports activities, and the system of television rights, which is obsolete and inadequate in relation to the needs of this important sector. All this makes our football for foreign investments very unappetising, but above all uncompetitive compared to other European nations, which instead protect this important sport and make it a central aspect of its growth dynamics, as well as of all other sports activities. In conclusion, I hope that this measure will be conducive to a revision of the criteria by which we go to re-enter sap within the Italian sport, increasing it and bringing it back to the ordinary measure of 100%, while making it subject to the green pass. In fact, it is absolutely not assumed that all stadiums, with the green pass, can return to the ordinary capacities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u14	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u15	Mr President, when we talk about the pandemic and the state of emergency, we need to know what is being discussed. Yesterday the number of people infected in Italy was equal to 10,172, with 72 dead, 6,406 healed, five jobs in intensive care throughout Italy and 90 hospitalizations. These are the data on the basis of which the constitutional rights of citizens are being undermined, including the right to privacy, including through the measure under consideration, which is the latest in a series of measures that are now unjustifiable in all respects. In fact, the cancer patients who die every day are about 490 and the patients with cardiovascular disease over 600, while the number of deaths for Covid-19 is really ridiculous and ludicrous. I repeat that there are five places in intensive treatment throughout the country. The measures taken are based on this data and that means, therefore, that our freedom and our constitutional rights are worth much, but much less. With the measure under consideration today, the possibility for civil servants of the public administration to access data covered by employees' privacy, for reasons not well specified in the public interest, is cleared. I would first of all like to understand who, at this moment, represents and decides in the country what is of public interest, since all our constitutional rights have been compressed on the basis of numbers that, as they say, make chickens laugh. We must first understand what the public interest is and then that there are rules to protect privacy. Regulation (EU) No 679 of 2016 recognises the tasks of the Privacy Guaranteers, which, however, with the measure under consideration, are completely bypassed, in the name of a not well defined, neither quantifiable or qualifying public interest, established by a Government that is managing this alleged phase of emergency (because, at this point, we cannot speak with any certainty) in a totally arbitrary manner and out of all dictates of science. We are talking about these figures: what do they allow the managers of the public administration to do? They allow, for example, access to the data of the vaccinations of the staff or the validity of the green pass, therefore of its expiration date, which has nothing to do with the public interest, because we know very well that the pre-acquisition of a sheet of paper where there is a QR code does not correspond at all to the health security or immunity of the owner of that QR code that delivered that card to his manager or his employer. The QR code could in fact be valid despite the positiveness of its holder, because we know that the green pass is not even suspended to those who prove positive. All this therefore makes no sense, because it clearly does not respond to the public interest or to that health emergency in the name of which all these reckless acts are being done. The government is telling us, through public information, that vaccine immunization would last no more than six months and that after it falls down and goes down to 50% or below, so there is a need to take the third dose. I have not yet seen a measure that reduces the duration of the green pass, which in fact continues to last twelve months, despite everything you are saying. The contagion curve in Italy is kept low thanks to all those workers who every other day make the buffer at their own expense to access the workplace. A buffer is invasive and is practically an extortion that applies to a healthy subject to prove that it is such. We have come to abuse the abuse and legitimacy of the infringement of a regulation dictated by the European Union in the name of an emergency that is not there. If in fact the numbers are those I have declared and are spread daily by the official Covid newsletters, then there is really no emergency to which to attack all these crazy and restrictive measures, which can be challenged anywhere. Let us also talk about the dogana and authorize the measure that will be voted on in this House today and for which this Bulgarian majority will be responsible, following its approval. It will also undermine the possibility of verifying the vaccination status of children, who, for example, are subject to differentiated quarantine periods in schools. They are another folly and another abuse in the abuse of this government not credited by any scientific reason. Someone has to explain to me why, if there are two Covid patients in one class or two cases of positivity, students vaccinated with negative buffer can continue to attend, while those not vaccinated, even if with negative buffer, must be quarantined. In view of the fact that undersecretary Sileri is present in the Chamber, who is a technician of the subject, being a scientist and a doctor, I would like to explain these measures which are being voted on and which are being performed in all the seats by means of circulars and unilateral acts of this Government, which are then ratified by a majority which obviously has its ears shut and its eyes blindfolded, so that one abuse is added to another, which in turn covers another which must cover another. After the doctors have been shielded, managers must rightly be shielded from all the abuses they will carry out against employees and students, wherever they are located. The aim is to cover in this way all the macroscopic circus that has come to be created on this emergency, which is now held up only by a narrative of the Government transmitted to networks unified by all the media, which are bombarding us also with information that comes from other countries, but we are working in this country. These are the rules and in no other country do I know that in order to go to work unimmunized employees have to pay a buffer every other day: it happens only in Italy and nowhere else. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the level we have reached: we have really exceeded the level of guard; we are now coming to a virtually total compression of constitutional rights, in the name of a senselessness, an illogicality, a scientific irrationality and a narrative that just are not standing anywhere. Vaccines that even do not offer coverage even with the third dose - contagions also circulate with the third doses in the RSA and health facilities - cannot be a good justification for conducting a campaign of hatred and disinformation such as that that Government is holding up to implement repressive measures that serve only to cancel the rights of seventy-five years of Republic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u16	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the work of this Government and this majority, if only because we have passed from the age of the DPCM, administrative measures which were essentially cut off from Parliament from any intervention and judgment of mayorship, from that of the decree-laws, which, although on government initiative, are subject to the scrutiny of Parliament and on more than one occasion are changed - from our point of view, for the better - following the intervention of the two branches of Parliament. I believe that this is a great step forward in the direction of parliamentary democracy, since that is what we are. The road to vaccination - as far as possible, by mass - has proved effective: even if the pandemic is not completely eradicated, I think I can say - and the data comfort us in this - that the worst is behind us. Those who in these two years have criticized, even fiercely - the last intervention that preceded me is part of this furrow - the Italian Government, and therefore the majority that supported it and that supports it, because in other countries less restrictive, softer and more elastic measures were taken to face the pandemic, today they must make a serious self-criticism, in my opinion. [[Applause]] If we look around in Europe, Italy is practically a happy island compared to Germany, France, Austria and Eastern countries. This means that our sacrifices have not been in vain. If today Italy is taken for example by the Western world, obviously this is due to the activities that have been prepared and also to the encouragement of the vaccination campaign. Of course, until the pandemic is completely eradicated, we will have to learn to live with the virus, without underestimating it, but without fear, respecting the minimum rules of distance, use of the mask and hygiene of the hands, but above all continuing the vaccination campaign, started a year ago. It has now been scientifically proven that vaccination, while not excluding the possibility of infection, certainly eliminates the most serious effects. A few days ago, I read in a newspaper that the index of the infected has returned to the levels of the past months: in May we exceeded 10,000 units, but, unlike then, when there had been 270 deaths, today we had little more than 60 or 70. This shows that vaccination is effective: it is not exhaustive, but it is effective. Other scientific institutes have been able to ascertain that, thanks to the vaccination campaign, we have saved the lives of about 12,000 compatriots: I believe this is an absolutely important result, which cannot be implied. [[Applause]] It is precisely for this reason that I should be allowed, with all due respect, but with all the necessary decision, to invite those who have not yet been vaccinated to do so and to trust the science and choices of this Government, which is not a Government of irresponsible people, and of this majority, which is not a majority of irresponsible people. And precisely because I am calling on those who have not yet made the vaccine, I call on those who have taken the two doses to do the third promptly, because this is the path that we must follow until we have completely eradicated the pandemic. If today, thank God, we are not talking about lockdown, a phenomenon that is affecting other neighbouring countries and that has been a phase that has deeply wounded us, we owe it to the courageous choices of this Executive and the majority that supports it, and also - we must say - to the sense of responsibility of the Italians. I repeat that today Italy is an example to be imitated and we must all be proud of this, Parliament, the Government and Italians, because it is a result of all, so we must go absolutely proud and proud of it. The decree-law that we are about to convert is not only the logical consequence of the sacrifices we have made, but it is the adherence of the Government to the demands of those who, Forza Italia in the first place, demanded a return to normality, although with all the cautions of the case. Theaters, cinemas, concerts and museums are back to being normal activities for Italians: enjoying a game in presence or a theatrical event and watching a movie return to being daily activities; our young people, who have been deprived of it - and perhaps those who have suffered the most consequences of restrictive measures, painful but necessary - return to be able to live their youth even by attending discos. At this point, Madam President, I want to be clear and I do so on behalf of the Group. We have an increase in infection and we are already talking about further initiatives and restrictions that can be made necessary. We agree that this must be the way forward, but on one thing we want to be clear: any responsibility and restrictions will never be able to affect those who have been vaccinated, on this we want to be absolutely clear! [[Applause]] We have left freedom and free referee, but those who have decided for his reasons (very respectable, even if not acceptable) not to be vaccinated cannot bear the burden and responsibility of this choice on those who have decided to do so. [[Applause]] On the other hand, this must be a reason why those who have not yet reached the conviction of vaccination will sooner or later decide to do so. I would like to end my speech, Madam President, by quoting a statement from my President, Mr Bernini, when the current Decree-Law was adopted by the Government. President Bernini commented in this way: great satisfaction for the decree-law of the Government on reopenings, which has the mark of Forza Italia, because it calibrates the necessary anti-Covid prudence with the sacred requests of the most penalized categories. This is not the explanation of vote that Mr Pagano will make for himself, but I believe that we understand what the attitude of Forza Italia will be in the face of the conversion of the decree-law in question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u17	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u18	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are converting yet another decree-law and we are withdrawn from yet another vote of confidence: Parliament's activity is undoubtedly reduced to a fragmentary role and inevitably it is difficult to deal with these measures in an organic way. It is precisely because of this difficulty, in the general debate, that I would like to focus on one amendment, the one I signed, which - I am telling you now - has not been approved and has received an opinion against it from the Government. Each of us brings our own experiences to this House. I am well aware - this is my first parliamentary term - of being a student again, because politics is another profession than what we can do before this work, but I am not forgetful of my roots and experiences. I have devoted my life to the formation of young people, who continue to be my main concern. For my work outside this House, I had the honour of participating in various competition committees: I took part in two committees for the examination of legal qualifications, in certain commissions for university competitions and, as Commissioner, in the competition for judicial hearing, that is, for the judiciary. Our Constitutional Charter recalls that the Republic is founded on work, but in reality - if we look well - it is founded on private initiative - that, lively, there is and supports this country - and also on public competitions, which, in my opinion, are a problem for young people and for this country. I speak from direct experience. Public competitions suffer from a lack of transparency. Candidates are often excluded without understanding the reasons and the committees remain the absolute referee of their fate; their sometimes is almost a will, in reality, which is greatly reduced whenever the evaluation criteria are transparent, objective and tradeable. We know, with regard to this decree-law, that the examination of the qualification of the forensic profession has been conformed to the requirements of public health protection and that the written proof has been replaced by a sort of - forgive me the oxymoron - oral; in practice, to the candidate the commission administers questions, that is, concrete questions to be solved, to which the candidate must answer orally, that is to prove, in good substance, to be able to be a lawyer. If we look at the previous methods of conducting the competition, we note that the commissions, beyond the general criteria good for all uses, should not make public the concrete criteria of evaluation, that is, how they felt the tests should be carried out. I have then tried to introduce a principle here. I have proposed an amendment which states that, at the end of the evaluation procedure, the committee must publish the answers, albeit in a concise manner. What is - or, better, what was - the purpose of this amendment? To impose on the committees rigour, because all those who participated in this test know that its outcome is highly uneven not only from Region to Region, but even within the same court of appeal and the same commission, which - as is well known - is articulated in many sub-committees. And it is known that, on the same basis as the trial, someone is promoted and someone is rejected. Why is this a harm to the country? Some might say that, in the end, what matters is that you make a selection. It's a damage, because we give young people the feeling - indeed, the certainty - that the rules out there, those they have to face out of college, are liquid, fluid and changeable and pass also the principle and the idea that, after all, we have to be recommended, otherwise that world out there becomes a jungle. Let us remember that we are the legislators, that this Assembly is the legislator: if we pass the principle that the commissions must give account of their actions, make public the answers and tell the candidate how the question should be solved, for example, on the preliminary contract or what the correct answer was to a question in the matter of usucapione; if we pass this principle, first of all we bind the commissions to rigour and seriousness and we pass the message that this country gives to the young people and to the objective and certain rules. This amendment was not adopted and received an opinion against it. The reasons for this are acceptable, but the concern is clear: do not introduce a precedent. Once a competing commissioner, belonging to another professional order, faced with my comments on the need to motivate rejections, he told me: if we reason, then they appeal. It's not an argument, it's not a valid reason. [[Applause]] On the basis of this principle, public administration should never give reasons for its actions and judges should never give reasons for their judgments. But I'll tell you more. Some public competitions that require the commission to motivate there is and is also an extremely selective competition, which gives this country a professional class of great skills: it is the notary contest, which is one of the three great competitions that can be faced after graduation in law. The commission of the notary contest must justify the reasons for the rejection. Yet, the notary, despite this, has served this country well for years. Therefore, we must not be afraid to introduce, as a general criterion, that of maximum transparency in the work of the committees. We, in general, can rewrite the rules of competitions; we can predict - for example - that the commissions are drawn or made up of foreign staff. The only real weapon we have to ensure that competitions are fair is to make the evaluation criteria transparent, whatever they may be. If we do not introduce maximum transparency within our competitions, if we do not do the work of the glass house commissions, we will always do a bad service to our young people. Let us not forget that the future of the country lies in the hands of young people. We have all been young and we are here today; in twenty or thirty years' time in this House, those who are young people will sit here today. If we fail in formation, we fail in our task. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u19	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u20	Mr President, representatives of the Government present in the Chamber, senators and senators, on 9 March 2020 Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced to the country the lockdown: it was a date that would mark the history of this country. It's been twenty months, but now Italy is sailing on a safe and precise route traced by the then President. At that juncture we were alone and first, even in the world, to look for the coordinates of a route to take Italy out of that situation. Against everything and against everyone we have undertaken what today are guidelines for the whole country, which put everyone in safety: the subdivision into colored areas, the use of protocols in almost all commercial activities, the distancing, the use of devices such as masks and protections such as the hygiene of hands or the use of gloves, the stopping of hugs. It was really difficult in this country to intervene with such actions, but it was done to preserve the weakest: a pact between generations - as my colleague Barbara Guidolin always says - between young and old. The limitations of young people have preserved the lives of the elderly. We also learned distance learning, smart working, to stay at home to work and educate our children. And we have introduced the capacities, the ability to contain certain amounts of people that we have gradually reduced and that we are gradually increasing, with reference to pandemic data. I said: against everything and against everyone, and a year ago in political talk shows and opinionists attacked all the maneuvers we carried on. Now we are proud of the responsibility that we took at the time, driving the country in a safe harbor. [[Applause]] It would have been easy to go to the opposition to challenge everything, to remain unarmed, to escape from their responsibilities: we have never done so. A year ago - I remind everyone here - there was talk on the one hand of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and, on the other hand, there was talk of ESM signatures. The country has not taken that path, but has found, thanks to Giuseppe Conte, a National Recovery and Resilience Plan that has brought 200 billion euros. [[Applause]] We gave it to the mayors and presidents of the Region to use it; the same ones that a year ago challenged every action we took. Now on this route the Dragons Government is moving; a course that we proudly traced. We are all working in this House on these schemes, on what has been dictated by President Conte's work. We are talking about reopenings: a hundred percent of indoor and outdoor capacity in white areas. We talk about vital places for our country, such as theatres, concert halls, cinemas, places of culture, entertainment venues, live music, 50 percent indoors and 75 percent outdoors of discos. One step at a time we are undertaking the path of normality, but with intelligence. We're back to filling palaces and stadiums. A few Sundays ago I went with my son to the stadium. I've seen diligent people enter by showing the green pass in sorted files. All structures are working in an optimal way thanks to this process. There are some sectors, however, that have experienced the situation more violently than others. One in particular is the tourism sector. Tourism does not move parcels or goods. Tourism moves people, moves emotions. It was really hard. Such a path was not predictable and manageable. Only certain rules and organization have made sure that this sector could start again. Gradual reopenings and attention to skills have ensured a safe path, but everyone needs responsibility. Another area I care about is that of dance clubs and discos: many are located in the area from which I come, but as many are scattered throughout the country. They are structures that have suffered perhaps more than all: twenty months of closure, in the face of a few days of opening during the summer period; more than 3,000 companies, of which one third will never reopen; 100,000 workers stopped for more than a year and a half. The entrepreneurs who have stood up, with their back straight, have done it with their legs, and certainly not thanks to the help we have given this year and a half. Now they can start again, 50 percent indoors and 75 percent outdoors, as I said before. It's a first step. Thanks to President Girotto, we have incardinated a deal assigned to the Commission to deal with the issue of capacity when the pandemic passes. Out of this situation, we must try to revive the world in a positive way, which is also a meeting place for young people, and not only. All generations use these premises, which must be supported and helped, because they represent a safe and controlled place where they can gather. This summer, when they were closed, we saw too many negative situations, with dance halls created from nothing practically in all our cities. Another sector that has experienced many difficulties in this period has been that of the trade fair sector. We have tabled an amendment on this subject, which the Government has turned into a binding agenda by 30 November. We hope it will be, but we will keep it closely monitored; an amendment that would allow it to be carried out in public areas, both in the white and in the yellow areas, without restrictions in terms of capacity, provided that the controls and guidelines are complied with. This would allow full participation in trade fair events. Free entry from outside into the national territory is guaranteed, without prejudice to the obligations laid down in relation to the territory of origin. We are pleased that the government has taken this path. We, as a political group, have tabled this amendment precisely because we want to protect this sector. I had a conversation with a reporter over the weekend. There are many reports that currently the check of the green pass is not carried out by many traders and activities. This is a worrying warning, which must make us all feel responsible. The economy of our country is at stake. Our dearest affections and the weakest people are at stake. One last appeal: let us not despair all the sacrifices we have made in the last twenty months. Let's not risk our country, its economy, businessmen and traders. We don't bet on the lives of our loved ones. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u21	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to reply in order to thank the Commission's offices first and foremost, which have been of fundamental support for our work these days. I would also like to thank the Undersecretary, Catherine Bini, for the great support and patience in following closely the work of the Commission and the Minister for Relations with the Parliament of Incà and all its efficient staff. I would also like to thank Mr Sileri, Mr Parrini and all the members of the 1st Commission and, in particular, the Group Leaders, who have contributed to the success of our work. In fact, it has not been easy to complete our work, given the complexity of the measure and the breadth of the topics dealt with: I refer in particular to Article 9, containing the privacy rules, on which we have done a great deal of work, to try to identify the best formulation and give full satisfaction to the varied needs highlighted by the Guarantor for privacy, the Government and all the Groups. My thanks go therefore to all the people I have indicated. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u23	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. Pending the conclusion of the work of the 5th Permanent Commission, I suspend the sitting until 11.50 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.27 a.m. and resumed at 11.51 a.m.) Colleagues, having just received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, I once again suspend our work for a few minutes, so as to allow the technical requirements to be carried out and the distribution of work equipment in this House. (The sitting was suspended at 11.51 a.m. and resumed at 11.59 a.m.) I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, amendments 1.9, 1.17, 2.0.9, 2.0.11, 2.0.12, 3.1, 3.5, 3.0.1, 3.0.2, 3.0.3, 3.0.4, 3.0.5, 3.0.6, 4.0.3, 4.0.4, 4.0.5, 4.0.6, 4.0.6, 4.0.7, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and 5.6 cannot be proposed in accordance with the content of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u26	Mr Agussori, rapporteur. Mr President, I would ask you to give me a list of the inadmissible amendments so that I can be helped, otherwise you must point them out to me from time to time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u27	I'm sure I'll get it for you, and in the meantime we'll start the illustration. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented. (12 noon) I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u28	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.2, 1.3, 1.6, 1.7, 1.12, 1.13, 1.14 and 1.16 and I am against Amendments 1.4 (text 4) and 1.8. As regards the agenda, the opinion was in favour of the agenda. On the agenda, G1.2 I refer to the Government's opinion, because I assume there is a proposal for reformulation. I also refer to the Government's opinion on the agenda for 1,100. I am in favour of additional amendment 1.0.1 and against amendment 1.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u29	Mr President, the opinions are in line with those expressed by the rapporteur. As regards agendas, the opinion on the agenda G1.2 is in favour if the rewording of the words is accepted at the beginning of the operative part: "to consider whether to start" (b) the words: "in the yellow zone," to consider whether to allow "in the yellow zone," and at the end of point (c) the words: "in accordance with public finance constraints" (c) I am voting in favour of the G1100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u30	Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u33	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the amendment apparently introduces a kind of rafting. The text in question - for the sake of clarity - reads as follows: In the yellow area, the shows open to the public in theatres, concert halls, cinemas, entertainment venues and live music and in other venues or spaces even outdoors, are performed exclusively with pre-assigned seats. Later, the text of the decree-law reads: In the white zone, access to the performances referred to in the first period (...).............................................................................................. It is clear the intention of the legislator - at a serene reading - to refer only to the list of places mentioned at the beginning of the paragraph, i.e. to indicate only the theatres, concert halls and so on. However, our concern was that there might be a restrictive interpretation of the application, linking to the list of halls also the condition that the performances take place exclusively with pre-assigned seats. This is due to the general reference made by reference to the places referred to in the first paragraph. We have asked - and obtained, having received the amendment in favour - to clarify the postponement. In other words, thanks to the amendment, the text, where it mentions white areas, reads as follows: In the white area, access to shows open to the public in theatres, concert halls, cinemas, entertainment venues and live music, and in other venues or spaces even outdoors, is allowed only to the subjects (...). We therefore ruled out at the root that someone could give in to the temptation to operate a restrictive reading of the text. I say this so that it is clear that what we have achieved is not only a stylistic improvement, for a greater readability of the norm, but also an improvement in content, since now the norm no longer allows restrictive interpretations by those who, maliciously, want to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u34	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.4 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.5 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Perosino, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.9 is unacceptable, and amendments 1.10 and 1.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.15 has been withdrawn and turned into agenda G1,100. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,16, tabled by Senator Perosino, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.17 is unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Perosino, does he accept the rewording of the agenda G1.2? PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Agenda G1.3 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2 tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u35	Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda. I'm going back to the government on the agenda for G2.101. I am against Amendments 2.0.2, 2.0.3, 2.0.5, 2.0.6, 2.0.7 and 2.0.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u36	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, with the exception of the G2.100 agenda, on which we propose a rewording. In the last premise before the device, we ask to replace the words "this strict discipline" appears in contrast with the following: "this strict discipline must be appropriately linked with "." At the beginning of the device we ask to replace the words "to provide" with the following: "Recommends the Government to consider whether to predict "to." On the agenda G2.101 we ask for a rewording by including in the device the words: "to consider whether to specify".
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u39	D'ARIENZO (PD). I would ask you to be able to sign the G2.100 agenda on tourist buses.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u42	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, I welcome the rewording proposed by the Government, but I would like to stress the importance of the G2100 agenda. As a group, we had tabled an amendment, identical to that of other colleagues on whom we have voted against today. I would like to stress the importance of the agenda that we are bringing to the attention of this House and I would ask for it to be voted on. I withdrew the amendment by turning it into an agenda because the government had given a justification in discussion in the Commission. The epidemiological data are rising, so I would not want to create a health problem, while supporting the cause of the tourist bus sector that has suffered a great difficulty during these two years of epidemic. I repeat, I would like the agenda to be put to the vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u43	Senator Di Girolamo, I accept your request, but as an agenda presented in this House and not drawn from an amendment that you have withdrawn; otherwise, being identical to those that will be put to the vote, you would be precluded from voting on your own. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u46	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Amendments 2.0.6 and 2.0.5 are identical to Amendment 2.0.4, which is now on the agenda for G2.100, and of course identical to the others tabled by Mr Conzatti and Mr Margiotta. We are asking for this agenda to be adopted and we will of course be voting in favour of it. Frankly, the rules that have produced this agenda and what is contained in it are a matter of health protection, contrary to what may perhaps be thought. In fact, one of the strict rules is that, before getting on board the buses in general but of the tourist buses in particular, the subjects must be equipped with the green certifications Covid, therefore the green pass, otherwise you can not get on board. Moreover, the characteristics of the vehicles now circulating in our country may even provide even more guarantees of the airplane, for example, for the replacement of the air inside them and therefore the constraint of the lower capacity no longer makes sense. We have given an approach that seemed to me the heritage of the whole Parliament, because we have never split up on this subject, we have always been together in respect of the health and economic structure of this important sector. We therefore call on all our colleagues to reflect again on the reasons that now legitimately lead - and we would miss it - to someone who has rethinked it. We hope that they will not rethink us, that this measure will be approved and that it will be a matter of justice, because there are other activities that are much more at risk that they do not have any kind of limitation today. The buses today are like a kind of funnel: those who get on board have the green pass, those who get on board are guaranteed by the replacement of the air, those who get on board are guaranteed by a serious and concrete supervision by the driver (and in many cases there are also two, if we talk about the tourist buses, for the great distances). Therefore, as far as the health aspect of tourist buses is concerned, we have a guarantee: if we go there we are not sick; instead, if we go elsewhere, we probably still do not have this kind of guarantee. As a result, I hope that colleagues will keep the commitments we have all made together this year and a half of great work on restoring the value of the Italian tourist system, including through national tourist buses representing thousands of families. Forza Italia will therefore vote in favour of this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u47	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100 (text 2), presented by Senator Di Girolamo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments in the Chamber.]] Senator Mautone, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G2.101?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u48	I welcome the proposal for rewording the agenda G2.101. I would just like to make a brief comment and explain the reason for my acceptance. My proposal comes from a reality: currently, most basic pediatricians to readmit children to school require the execution and presentation of a buffer. Obviously this involves a high frequency of swabs, because there is a non-Covid respiratory disease, which has always existed, and a significant economic increase for families. This originally asked for amendment 2.0.10. However, I welcome the Government's commitment to reformulate the agenda in relation to the non-close correlation between readmission to school and the display of an anti-hygienic or molecular buffer.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u49	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendment 2.0.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.2 tabled by Senators Vono and Grimani, identical to amendment 2.0.3 tabled by Senator Berutti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.4 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.100. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators, identical to amendments 2.0.6, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, and 2.0.7, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Amendment 2.0.8 is absorbed by the outcome of the previous vote. The amendment0 2.0.9 is improbable. Amendment 2.0.10 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G.2101. Amendments 2.0.11 and 2.0.12 cannot be proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u52	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to have a check on the previous vote, because once again we have to check that some colleagues in the Forza Italia area continue to vote for colleagues who are physically absent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u53	I will pay attention and urge the Secretary Senators to verify it. [[Brusio]] Be quiet. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u54	Mr President, let us withdraw Amendment 3.0.2000/1 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u55	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u56	I am against Amendment 3.3. On the G32000 agenda, which comes from Amendment 3.0.2000/1, I am returning to the House because it did not go through the Commission. I naturally support Amendment 3.0.2000.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u57	I give my assent to the rapporteur. On the G32000 agenda, the text of which has just been delivered to us, I need a few minutes to evaluate it. I ask that he be set aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u58	The agenda for G3/2000 is set aside, so it has more time to check it out. Amendment 3.1 is not possible. Amendment 3.2 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators Malan and La Russa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.4 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3.5 is not possible. Amendment 3.0.2000/1 has been withdrawn and transformed into the G3.2000 (text 2) agenda, which has been put aside. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.2000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.1 to 3.0.6 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u59	Mr President, I am against Amendment 4.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u61	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u64	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I repeat what I said in the Commission: this is an amendment which absolutely does not involve any economic burden, which is used to cope with an emergency, which allows us to choose between those who have already had experience in this particular period and obviously does not require an extension of duties; it simply provides that persons who have reached 65 years of age and up to sixty-eight, during the emergency period, may still be appointed to direct or administer ASLs as Directors-General. There is - I repeat - no economic burden, it does not involve anything. It is a proposal to address special needs in progress, for which there is a need to have qualified people who can continue to manage the emergency. That's all it is. Therefore, I do not withdraw the amendment and I call for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u67	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to accept Amendment 4.0.1 (text 2). We shall vote in favour, as we have done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We call on the Government to consider further, because honestly we do not understand what are the adverse health problems that require the Government to express an opinion against it. There are no charges for public finance, the text provides for a possibility and not an obligation and serves on a transitional basis, at a time of pandemic, to comply with an emergency situation; honestly it is unreasonable, as well as irrational, the contrary opinion expressed by the Government. We therefore hope that it will be corrected. In any case, we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u70	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we confirm our Group's support for amendment 4.0.1 (text 2), already signed by my fellow Members, Mr Saponara, Mr Rivolta, Mr Pizzol and Mr Lunesu. It is objective what Senator Cucca has just said: there is no increase in costs, but a vision that takes into account the emergency situation, when it increases and when it decreases, and above all, the important contribution to the health system. To disregard this amendment means to support the exact opposite of what someone in the government pontificates when he goes on television.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Amendments 4.0.2 to 4.0.7 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u72	Mr President, on Amendment 5.2 (text 2) by the Commission, the opinion is naturally in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u73	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u76	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business because very special situations are being created. Let me give an example on the tourist buses referred to in the last amendment. Nobody here is against helping the tourist buses, but there is a responsibility of government forces who have to follow a line. [[Applause]] I am very pleased that Parliament takes this freedom. I am delighted, but this must be the freedom of any political force, because the tourist buses must know that the Movimento 5 Stars and the Democratic Party have the same same will to give them a hand, but they do not put in trouble President Draghi, voting as League, Forza Italia and Italia dei Vivi or Forza i Vivi, as they are called, thus putting in difficulty the majority. This must be made clear and must remain in the record. I therefore ask the Minister for relations with Parliament to be immediately informed to the President-in-Office of the Council of these behaviors of certain majority forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u77	Senator Castelli, I'm not responsible for the political merit assessments. I would remind everyone of Article 68 of the Constitution, so that Members of Parliament cannot be called upon to give their votes in the performance of their duties. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u79	It may, with the recommendation to be relevant to the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u80	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, I will be more than relevant. First of all, I would like to stigmatize what has happened in this House and which you have rightly pointed out from a purely legal point of view, namely that there is a problem within this majority and that that problem is called democracy. [[Applause]] It is no coincidence, in fact, that on the only measure where trust is not placed, the cracks of this majority are evident. The second point is that it cannot pass on the message that those who voted against the amendment on tourist buses today are in favour of the amendment on tourist buses. It is in the evidence of the facts that there are those who perjure the cause of the tourist buses and those who, by their vote, do not do so. [[Applause]] It seems perfectly normal to me that, in this context, which is a context of democracy, there are those who use their brains and do not adapt to the party's Diktats. Congratulations to democracy!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u81	Colleagues, I do not intend to open a debate because Parliament can vote in one way or another. On the other hand, we are voting because that is Parliament's role and task. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u82	Mr President, if you consider it, I am now in a position to express my opinion on the agenda that we had set aside, the G3,2000, which has already been sub-amendment 3.0.2000/1. The Government's opinion is in favour with the following rewording: "It commits the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to do so."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u83	I ask the presenter, Senator Ferro, if he accepts the reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u84	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u85	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.2000 (text 2), will not be put to the vote. Amendment 5.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.3 to 5.6 are unacceptable. Amendments to Article 6 have been withdrawn. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u86	Mr President, I naturally support Amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u87	Mr President, on Amendment 7.1, the Government is returning to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u88	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. [[Comments. Call the president back.]] Colleagues senators! Senator Zaffini, sit down!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u89	Mr President, I naturally support Amendment 8.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u90	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u91	Colleagues! Did you have too much coffee this morning? I proceed with the votes, then you do not vote. Amendment 8.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, I am passing on to the amendments: do you want to be quiet?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u94	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, there is an unbearable buzz in this House and you do not understand what you are saying. I hope that the House will be able to take a decision on this matter at least one hour, so that the majority can regain their unity of mind. [[Comments.]] I do this on a collaborative basis, because in three votes the majority has gone under, there is an unbearable confusion, the majority quarrels between the benches and it is not possible to work in this way. Therefore, we would like to be able to vote in conscience, listening to colleagues, but it is impossible because there is an unbearable confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u95	Senator Ciriani, you're right, as long as everyone cooperates not to create disorder and buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u98	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, in the light of what has just happened in this House, I need to ask for a suspension of work to bring my Group together. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u101	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we do not agree: we want to proceed as planned and as we agreed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u102	Since there is no unanimity, I have to put the motion for a suspension to the vote. Those in favour of the suspension proposal will vote yes, those against will vote no. We will proceed with the electronic system without registration of names. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Casini, we're in the process of voting. After the vote, you will have the right to speak. I refer to the vote, by electronic procedure without registration of names, of the suspension proposal, made by Senators Ciriani and Castellone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u105	[[Brusio.]] Colleagues, you can't ask for silence and then make noise. Let's listen to Senator Casini. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would just like to make a point of common sense: because there was a proposal from a colleague, Mr Movimento 5, to suspend it, before it was put to the vote, I wanted to ask for a clarification, because an account is - even for a courtesy - that a Holding Company should request a suspension, which in my opinion is never denied, limited in time. [[Applause]] One thing is if the suspension means that the sitting is no longer being held and that we are going to postpone it to another moment. If, however, the suspension is a quarter of an hour, I do not see why we should not grant it. [[Applause]] But since common sense is a minority, that's okay. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u106	Senator Casini, I had received two proposals: one of a one-hour suspension and one of a suspension for the duration of a group meeting. I therefore put to the vote first the will of the House on a suspension and then on the duration of the suspension. Since there was an equivalent Holding Company which, on the other hand, expressed its opposition, I had to put it to the vote and so the Assembly decided. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u107	Of course, I am in favour of Amendment 9,500 (text 2), with rewording of the 5th Commission, and Amendment 9,0.1. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u108	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u109	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senators Grenato and Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,500 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senators Angrisani and Grenato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'AZ). Mr President, I believe that all subsequent amendments tabled to the article, following the adoption of amendment 9,500 (text 2), are foreclosed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u110	I confirm that the remaining amendments are foreclosed or withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the COORD coordination proposal.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u111	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u112	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u113	I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for co-ordination has been put to the vote at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u116	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the decree that we are about to convert today is a measure that not only revises the subject of capacity in different places, but also affects in a cross-cutting way the reorganization of the Ministry of Health, the temporary strengthening of the Central Bureau for the referendum at the Court of Cassation and the examination of the ability to exercise the profession of forensics for the 2021 session, as well as providing for some urgent provisions on reception and integration in the context of the protection of personal data. This is a particularly long-awaited measure, as another step towards normality was long anticipated, with further training of the previous restrictive measures imposed precisely for the containment of the contagion. [[Brusio]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, but there's a background noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u117	Colleagues, I invite all those in the Chamber to discuss outside the Chamber, allowing Senator Sbrollini to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u118	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. This decree provides for important innovations, such as the return of up to 100 percent of the capacity in the white area for concerts, theatres and cinemas, the abolition of the obligation of social distance in museums or the increase of the permitted entrances in stadiums and discos. Basically, these are measures that allow different sectors to really share. In the minutes I have given myself, I would like to focus mainly on the forecasts for access to cultural, sporting and creative activities, not only as a Parent Company in the Education Commission, but also as responsible for the sports sector of the Group to which I belong. As Italy Viva-PSI we have insisted for months that the strict limits of the capacities should finally be reviewed. I am convinced that we can do even more than is provided for in this decree, especially if we intensify the vaccination campaign and proceed with the extension of the green pass in all places, as already done in these weeks. With the green pass we have for the first time greater security, because we know that the people around us are vaccinated, have made a buffer or are healed by the Covid, but it also constitutes a greater guarantee to others, not to mention the fact that the green pass has been and continues to be the only way by which to share on an economic and social level and we should really make a common front in order to extend its scope and not to reduce it. Thanks to the extraordinary work done by the Dragon Government and, in particular, the vaccination plan managed by General Son, we were able to face the virus and protect ourselves from new closures. We are continuing rapidly with the vaccination campaign, starting from the most fragile subjects and the health care staff. Vaccinating is a gesture of responsibility towards all and is necessary to prevent further restrictive measures. In this sense, Italy Viva-PSI is spending - and will continue to do so - on the assumption of a serious and concrete commitment, aimed at verifying the security conditions in order to proceed to an widening of the capacities also for other places. Colleagues and colleagues, we must make this commitment, because there are sectors of the economy that have not yet recovered from the pandemic crisis. I am thinking above all of the indoor sports sector: the capacity of indoor sports facilities must be equal to that of cinemas, theatres and concert halls. Today, thanks to the great race of the vaccination campaign and the extension of the green pass, you can no longer make distinctions. Culture and sport, like the other sectors that have been penalized by closures, must be able to resume fully. Indoor sports are on the verge of collapse; losses due to missed receipts and revenue from sponsors are dizzying. Everything must be reopened immediately; the survival of important high-level championships, as well as amateur championships, is at stake. For this reason, we have firmly tabled amendments aimed at raising the limits of capacity even in the yellow areas and extending the green pass even further as the only tool we have today to return to normal. We are well aware, unfortunately, of the daily growth of infections and we understand, therefore, the prudence that inspires also the words of the undersecretary Vezzali, according to which it is still early to talk about a capacity of 100% for the public in sports facilities, even in the face of the confirmation arrived from the CTS. But we also believe that we really need to think about what is going on. Let's think about the capacity in the Pala Alpitour in Turin, where the ATP Finals of tennis are in progress. The CTS rejected the request for a derogation from the organisers to increase by 7% the possibility of welcoming the public in the building hosting this event, as - according to the CTS - the current pandemic situation does not allow it. We must, however, speak clearly. The sport sector, especially the indoor sector, continues to face severe difficulties that cannot be dealt with only with the refreshments contained in the measures adopted in recent months. Moreover, the full capacity of the facilities would mean a lot, allowing first of all to relive the emotions that only sport can transmit. I think we can also understand the meaning of the measure from this point of view. A choice has been made by the Government, which Italy Viva-PSI strongly supports, that is to allow a return to freedom through the instrument of the green pass, at least as long as it lasts the state of emergency. On this we cannot and must not have doubts as a majority and as representatives of the institutions, we must also move to be a good example. The green pass is the tool that is giving back freedom, which allows us to return to work safely, bring our children serenely to school and enjoy serenely the moments of leisure that are granted us by music, culture and sport. Expressing the favorable vote of Italy Viva-PSI to the measure under consideration, I take the opportunity to ask for a gesture of responsibility from everyone. I would therefore like to address those groups which are probably motivated by the desire to attract part of the electoral consensus, which hinder the green pass instrument (we have seen this in recent days also in conjunction with the approval of the measure that provided for the exemption of green certification in the workplace). In a context in which contagions are increasing daily we can have no doubt about how to proceed. The data confirm the increase in hospitalizations and infections, especially in serious form, and this is the result of irresponsible choices on the part of those who can do so have decided not to vaccinate, thus endangering not only their health, but above all that of those who are close to them. President, we must prevent these choices from bringing the country to its knees again, forcing the government to adopt drastic measures such as new closures, which would no longer be admissible on both the economic and psychological fronts. I would also like to reiterate in this House a concept that has been repeated several times in recent days by our President Matteo Renzi: if restrictions and local lockdowns are to be achieved, these will have to be only and exclusively for those not vaccinated. It wouldn't be fair to penalize the whole country. I declare the favorable vote of Italy Viva-PSI on the bill to our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u121	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, today we are examining yet another decree-law - we have practically one a day - but exceptionally the Government - we have to give credit for it - has not put trust, but it has put in place other things that we deplore. As long as we do, there may be those who say that the Brothers of Italy is the only opposition party, but the President of the Republic has also said so in a letter to the Presidents of the House and Senate, which is the way in which the Constitution provides that the President can speak with Parliament, recalling both the constitutional dictation directly, and the judgments of the Constitutional Court that require the content of a decree-law to be homogeneous. In the decree-law at our examination we have a part that concerns the capacities of the various sports and entertainment facilities, buses and in the transport sector. The adjustment involves an increase in capacity that is allowed following the emergency Covid. This part, among other things, in its spirit of reopening finally, we share it. Then, however, incredibly, by virtue of the homogeneity, the Constitutional Court has even repealed after years a rule on drugs contained in a decree that concerned the Turin Winter Olympics in 2006. It's no small thing. It has already happened that a rule has been repealed with all the consequences of the case. In addition to the part of the provision from which the name of the decree is derived, i.e. the decree of capacity, there is an article concerning reception centres for refugees - which does not understand what it has to do with the first part - and there is another article to protect the Slovenian minority, which can be shared, but has nothing to do with reception centres, which obviously are not for the Slovenian minority, nor with the part of the measure that concerns the capacity of the facilities. In fact, an even different part has been added, Article 9, which concerns the guarantees of the privacy of personal data, so-called privacy. Having said that, the Government has put in place an intervention that goes precisely and literally against what has been reiterated - because it was already well known - by the President of the Republic in the most solemn way, namely by a letter to the Presidents of the House and Senate. With regard to the content, well, we have seen what the Senate must do, and Parliament in general, because we have finally been able to vote on the amendments. Moreover, it did not take much time for the examination of the article, and although it did, I would say that, since Parliament's work is to examine the measures point by point, and not with a vote covering completely uneven subjects, the Senate would still have done its job. Thanks to the votes we made this morning on some of the amendments, which saw the centerright united, despite the differences - we know well that the Brothers of Italy is in opposition while the other political actors support the Government - finally being able to vote in substance, some measures have been improved. Justice has finally been done on the tourist buses, which have the possibility of having the capacity that other buses have, but also providing greater guarantees. On the other hand, the text on which the Government had become bold provided for unjustified unequal treatment. We have spoken on an article - among those that have nothing to do with the rest of the provision - which, as it was written, could be shared, but a weak point has rightly been found. I am referring to the article which provides for an extension of 3,000 seats in the reception system due to the emergency of refugees in Afghanistan. We have repeatedly urged the Government to do everything possible not to make a general reception of all Afghans who want to leave their country, but certainly for those who are personally and specifically persecuted, those who have collaborated with the Italian military mission in that Asian country. Well, the amendment pointed out that those 3,000 extra posts were reserved for Afghan refugees; it seemed to be a clarification that should be accepted by all, while, surprisingly, the left side of the majority of the government said no, confirming the original text. In other words, they admitted that, under the pretext of the Afghan refugees, they wanted to increase the reception system by 3,000 places and then put all the other people and not the Afghan refugees. Thanks to the Senate, which did its work by reading and examining the provision seriously, these twists have changed. I come to the more general content of the measure. The first part, albeit with an adjustment in some respects - however, often unjustified disparities, which have only partially been corrected - reiterates the use of the green pass, subject, like all the norms concerning the emergency Covid, to continuous and subsequent modifications: we climb, we go down, we move, we change the norm. This does not give confidence to citizens who, for almost two years now, have been under very heavy human, economic and working standards, which is why they would need certainty of standards for at least two to three weeks, possibly for one or two months. If the government is sure of the rules it has imposed and of their effectiveness - and should be sure, since the limitations are heavy - it does not have to change them every two weeks, otherwise citizens draw the conclusion that the rules are irrational and ineffective, which is only partially true: in part they are irrational, partly ineffective. It is clear, however, that if the Commission continues to change its mind every moment, this creates mistrust in the citizens. In the same way, it has given citizens no confidence that the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has lied in this very House, in front of the Senate Assembly, at a very important sitting in which distrust of him was being examined. It has lied shamelessly, as it has emerged over the past few weeks, about its intervention in the World Health Organization to conceal a publication from which its serious responsibilities arose for neither having prepared nor implemented a pandemic plan appropriate to the times, with the results we have seen. Probably thousands and thousands of deaths could have been avoided if Italy had had a pandemic plan worthy of that name and had been put in place in time, instead of banning autopsies and doing a number of other inexplicable things that had very serious effects. Another part of the measure that I would like to stress and which raised great concern concerns Article 9, which I mentioned earlier, concerning the processing of personal data. Well, today the processing of personal data can take place on the basis of legal provisions and by a limited number of public administrations. With these changes there will be virtually no more limits to all public administrations - even local public service managers are included - who will then be able to access and process personal data of people, without these being informed (if not by the publication of this law), on the basis of the determination of such managers that the processing of personal data, i.e. putting their hands on the personal data also health of each of us, can be useful in exercising the functions that are assigned to them. Well, we think that, precisely in these times when technology comes heavily into everyone's life, it is important to protect the privacy and confidentiality of personal data, like all citizens' rights. Technology must be used for the good of the citizens and not to control them according to the concept of an eyeed state, the owner of the citizens and who wants to keep them under control at all times. We are for the citizens to be protected in their freedom within the framework of rules that must be respected by all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u124	BITI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to speak this morning. I had already prepared a draft intervention yesterday morning, but - alas - the data we received in the evening had forced me to change the line of my speech. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot pretend that nothing has happened in this House this morning; I cannot do so because, on the day when - ahinoi - the contagions are increasing in a way that is not entirely indifferent, because we reach again the number of cases in May, with increased admissions in the Covid departments but also in intensive therapies, and so we are wondering how much and how we can go on, there is a spectacle in this House that I do not want to call worrying, but that must make us think anyway. This morning it happened that on some amendments (of course you referred to an article in our Constitution that we all respect and believe in), while the Government has been working incessantly for almost a year to secure the country, this Assembly has sent several times under the Government [[Applause]] : I repeat, a government that is trying to secure our country. I certainly applaud Mr Sbrollini, who in his speech declares that his Group loyally and firmly supports this Government, but I remind Senator Sbrollini that three times this morning he voted against the Government's opinion. [[Applause]] I say to the League and to Forza Italia that they are in this Government and that today they have sent under their ministers. [[Applause]] Then I wonder where is the responsibility to which we are all called and which we all continue to call back; where did it end on the day when we reach a surge of contagions for Covid in our country? I am at least appalled, Mr President, and I leave to you my sense of great difficulty in making this speech. We have a country that has suffered for two years from a health point of view, as we know well, and from an economic point of view; we finally have a country that is definitely an example throughout Europe (but I would like to say in the world) for how it managed to face the pandemic. I do not think it is necessary to have a memory exercise, ladies and gentlemen, because in this House we have cried, we have regretted, we have despaired, we have called for the greatest possible help for what has been happening for two years now. However, this morning, in order to put up electoral flags - I do not know, Mr President, I have this idea - in order to make evidence of strength on important events that await us in the coming months. [[Applause),]] There is still a risk of undermining the confidence this country has in the political class. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, colleagues, what are we doing? Have the citizens already given us a clear answer not going to vote in a very large percentage of the local elections that we have just made? Isn't that a clear signal of how much the service that we have all decided to devote to this country is now without trust and credibility on the part of the citizens? However, on such an important measure as this one, we continue to give this message: forgive me, Mr President, for the term I am about to use, but "doubtfully" we are against ourselves. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen, we are really giving a show that is not up to what the citizens would like from us. [[Applause]] Last year we had many cases and a great worry and the government, along with so many of us, clearly said that we were waiting for dark months and great trials again, after a year of closures. Do you remember the yellow, orange and red areas? Remember what it meant to live not knowing well if you could have an open-air coffee, at the counter, go outside, come back at 10 o'clock at noon, not be able to come in? Do you remember this? Last year we talked about this; this year instead, thanks to the Government that I hope we still support everyone, apart from Brothers Italy that has always been consistent, we talk about reopenings, with attention. The Democratic Party has never ride those that could also be easy situations to ride to have an extra electoral percentage in the polls; we have never done so because for us what it pays has always been rigour, prudence and graduality. We have always said to open a little at a time so as not to close again, thanks also to the great commitment in the vaccination campaign and the use of the green pass, compared to which - ahinoi - many parties have squeezed the eye to the movements no pass and no vax, never assuming clear positions. But we have always done so, perhaps even paying for it in electoral terms. However, for the Democratic Party, colleagues and colleagues, once again loyalty to the pact that has been made with citizens comes first, because their security and interest must always be put before any electoral banner, any exploitation. In this sense, in these two years the Democratic Party has convincedly supported the successive governments. I do not pretend that there has not been another one before, which we strongly supported at a very difficult time. Similarly, with great loyalty, we support the Dragon Government and its entire Executive, which - needless to say - has secured this country. However, ladies and gentlemen, when we see the data increase, we cannot pretend that this measure, for which we are voting in favour with extreme security, is final. We will continue to use the same responsibility, the same coherence and above all the same consequenceality, because I believe that we must also learn to be consequent to what we say, holding a firm line, not winking at those who change their minds every day. In fact, there are those who would like to open one day, one day close, one day open in half or close in half, depending on what comes best. For us the line is clear: the country that is safe from the health point of view is a country that can recover also from the economic point of view. This is demonstrated by the health security data we are reaching, which says that we can reopen the cinemas, theatres and stadiums. The social life of each of us returns, the children can stay at school and must no longer be at home, with the enormous problems that, even from the psychological and mental health point of view, the last two years have brought about. We are on the right track, as always it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to choose whether or not to live up to this moment. I believe that by voting against the government, as happened this morning, we probably will not be, but it will not say so at the next election round. It will tell us something far more important than a vote in the coming months or in the next year and a half, or when it will be: if we have been able to give a safe country from all points of view to the next generations, our children and our grandchildren, only the facts will tell us; it will not be the elections that tell us that we have done well, but we will only know if our children and our grandchildren will be sure first of all from the point of view of health and, then, from the economic point of view; indeed, together from the economic point of view. This is a challenge. The Democratic Party knows where to stay, has demonstrated it in these two years and will continue to demonstrate it. If you come after us, you'll be a pleasure to the whole country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u127	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, kind Undersecretary Sileri, ladies and gentlemen, I am once again speaking in an explanation of vote - I feel full responsibility for it - on a decree which must be converted and which has passed under the definition of a decree of capacity. It is a definition that I like very much, because it is a demonstration of how successful the strategy against the pandemic by Covid-19, implemented by the Dragons Government, has been. In fact, if we talk about decree capacities, if we talk about reopening theatres, concert halls, musical entertainment venues and more, in the white area even 100 percent, it is due to a campaign of vaccination that has been successful. The Government has intended to accept the requests of the Italian Regions and the Conference of Regions because obviously the CTS, which scientifically supports the Government Dragons, has considered that these demands today, or rather when the decree capacity was approved, could have received and could be approved in the Government Dragons and then evidently delivered to Parliament, so that the decree-law would be converted in the terms provided for by our Constitution. I therefore believe that this is a special day, beyond the controversy that arose during the debate on the adoption of the amendments, on which we have also discussed and voted in the first Commission. This is a positive day, because it is the demonstration that, just as my colleague Luigi Vitali correctly and skillfully narrated in his speech, the Italian Government has been able to distinguish itself in effectiveness and efficiency from the contrast to the pandemic by Covid-19, doing better than other Western countries and other countries of the European Union, which instead have acted with sloppyness, which was often attributed in the past to the modus operandi of the Italians. Instead, we have demonstrated that we are a serious country, that relies on qualified and competent people. Let us not forget - and I would like to remind you once again - that entrusting the responsibility of the vaccination campaign to General Son was a great success and it is right to remember him, because this was the first of the important choices that Mario Draghi and the Government that he presides over. The same applies, of course, to the Civil Protection, which has accompanied General Son in this campaign, and to the Regions that have been behind him: it is necessary to praise the Regions for what they have been able to do and to the cities, which have followed a virtuous path, which has led - I read it in today's newspapers - to arrive, dear Undersecretary Sileri, to a first administration of the vaccine anti-Covid to 86 percent of the audience (it is the data of yesterday). So we are talking only about 14% of Italians, unfortunately still about seven million, who did not intend to immunize themselves. Then we'll see if they didn't do it out of fear of the vaccine or because ideologically no vax and then placed in that beehive of people who think that, regardless of everything, vaccines always hurt and not just that against the Covid-19. I think that the decree-law in question, to which other measures have been linked, first of all that (which we consider useful) relating to the management of personal data and the increase of personnel and mischievousness for the Authority guarantor of privacy, has represented a good opportunity for the Government to obtain, in this circumstance, the favorable vote of a very large parliamentary majority, which evidently has been able to appreciate the successes of what happened in Italy in recent months, which, as Senator Vitali rightly pointed out, mark a difference with other countries, which even historically are considered of great civilization and great rigour, such as Germany, Austria and Holland, which today, unfortunately, precisely because of a low percentage of vaccinated, must fight the pandemic with measures of restriction of personal freedom very severe. This clearly contrasts with a way of doing usually much more serious, which at this moment puts Italy at the top, as a leading country, as a country to take for example, dear Sileri, for the sense of responsibility of the Italians and of the whole health organization. Of course Forza Italia is always at the side of doctors, nurses and all the Italian health workers who are still working and who deserve applause. [[Applause]] Now it is sad to see how the other countries have believed in it a little less and are now fighting against the fourth wave. Unfortunately, even in Italy, despite a very high percentage of vaccinations, we need to see an increase in infection. Yesterday, suddenly, the positives splashed at over 10,000. We cannot, therefore, underestimate this aspect. I read that the expert virologi hope that the highest point of the turning point of this new wave of Covid-19 can arrive as soon as possible, to allow the Italians to live a Christmas and Christmas festivities in holy peace. It is obvious, however, that we must be very careful and diligent, to understand that we cannot afford to lower our guard. That is why the Government has often said no to amendments which tended to open up further, which I appreciated. I understand, in fact, that there is also an attitude of prudence. The Government's attitude takes account, of course, of the suggestions of the Scientific Technical Committee. We must believe in science; we must believe in doctors. There are too many colleagues, even here in the Senate, who would like to enroll in the medical faculty, because they have a natural propensity to understand medicine, when, instead, they may have a degree in law, as in the case of myself. And I, in fact, entrust myself to those who understand more than I do. Because I believe in science and I know that the average age of human beings, especially Italians, has grown by about twenty years in the last fifty years, you well understand that it is not an accident. Either we believe it or we don't believe it. When I was a child I was vaccinated; when I was called to be a soldier, they stung me on my chest and I didn't even ask what they were injecting me with. [[Applause]] As I said the other day in this House, I had the third dose administered, because it had been six months since the second, and I did so gladly. I am here to say that all the controversy, of which I am sorry, raised by those who spoke for an explanation of vote for the Democratic Party, does not make sense. The votes cast on two amendments, with the contrary opinion of the Government, are not a signal against the Government, dear Undersecretary Bini. It was two issues of merit. Please accept what I am saying: Forza Italia did not vote against the Government. It voted in favour of two amendments. [[Senator Cirnnà's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u128	Senator Cirinna, I invite you to calm down. Continue, Senator Pagano.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u129	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I conclude by saying that our vote in favour is a vote in favour of the Government and that the votes on the amendments have nothing to do with the draft Government. So, stay calm, cos it would be good for you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u132	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, perhaps it is good that Senator Pagano should also listen, as well as receive the compliments of his Group. This is one of the many decree-laws in which with the Government and with him we parliamentarians, we have assumed responsibility before the country all together (then we will have to see who has it and who does not have it), which is to try to take the country out of the pandemic situation. This is one of the decree-laws with which you give indications, even important, for the resumption and reopenings. It is not a decree on the green pass, on which, moreover, there are those who have a sense of responsibility and those who do not, so you prefer, even if there is trust, not to vote. This is to say that we need to discuss well what the sense of responsibility is. This is one of the decree-laws in which indications are given, even important, for the resumption and openings. This measure is mainly focused on this aspect, it is not on the green pass, on which, among other things, someone had a sense of responsibility and someone else the sense of responsibility did not prove to have it, because he prefers not to vote, even if the question of trust is raised. We must therefore discuss well what this sense of responsibility is. The decree-law in question regulates access to cultural and sporting activities, with a push of course always limited, depending on whether you are in the yellow area or in the white area. With this sense of responsibility, in which everyone has his own ideas - because there is always merit - in which everyone presents his own amendments and options, having a different view, we have faced each other. The problem, however, is that it can only work on some issues, sometimes even unintelligible and unconvincing, that part of the majority must bear in mind the fact that the Government has expressed an opinion against it, so it follows it, and therefore, despite having tabled the same amendments, it withdraws them and takes charge of voting against what it thinks. Even in other cases, as on the amendment of Senator Cucca - so let us be clear - there are those who work to find a solution, it is precisely the Minister of Forza Italia who says no and then the Forza Italia Group votes with great joy against the opinion of the Government. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, you have to explain to me how we are in this majority. We all know that each of us is part of this majority only because of the situation in the country, because we think differently and have different values. [[Applause]] But these were the rules of engagement. If, instead, Senator Pagano, we have to go into the matter, we have to explain to me how to ask us to vote on this decree-law. Is that clear? Because then, if we have to go into the matter, things change. Let's say there's no majority, that everyone decides according to their own ideas and then the government will tell us what they think they're doing. I say to everyone that it is clear that this cannot go on. This is not the first time and is not the second time that has happened: in the past it has happened so many times that governments have gone under the vote on an amendment or on a matter, because it can happen. In this case the question has become known differently, because it happens that colleagues are recompensed together with Brothers of Italy, who do his profession of opposition, and it is celebrated every time he sends himself under the Government, because this also happens. The point is now all political and so we would like to understand the rules of engagement in the majority and how we must move forward. The budget session has begun and we would like to see how we should proceed. It is clear that the interests of the country for a part do not matter, because they are interpreted only in the light of their own part, without considering that all together, collectively, we must take charge of the situation. Colleagues, we're joking with fire. We're not in a quiet situation. They're all quiet here, but you don't have to be quiet, because the contagions are recovering and there's a situation that we need to be careful about. We're not out of this yet, and after we've been through a difficult situation, we don't have to fight for the fact that there are open tourists all the time. If we are in this situation, it is thanks to those who, on this side, have always maintained a line of consistency, based on the precautionary principle. [[Applause]] It's only because of this part that we managed to get the country out of the crisis. Let's put in place the green pass tool and we know perfectly well how you behaved also on the decree-law in the matter of green pass. For this reason I repeat that a reset is needed, we need to understand exactly what is the principle of responsibility towards the country and we need to understand to the full how one is in this majority, because there can not be some who always have to take charge of everything, suffer and maybe vote things that do not share and others who freely interpret their role as parliamentarians. However, since we are all Members of Parliament here and have our ideas, if that is the line, everyone will interpret it freely. That is why I think that the time has come - I say this to the representative of the Government and perhaps also to the President-in-Office of the Council - in which political clarification is needed to the full because otherwise, not only is the interest of the country not at heart, but there are obviously other ideas to change and change the majority. Know that we are no longer willing to move forward in this way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u135	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is today called upon to examine and convert Decree-Law No 139 of 8 October 2021. It is clear to everyone that we are in the presence of a measure with a strong social impact and that it represents another substantial step towards that normality that as a League we hope and advocate for many months now, normal because, among the many and too many deprivations and wounds that have inflicted us in these months of pandemic, the deepest and tearing is probably precisely the loss of our normality, of the small gestures, of our customs. We have stung the government and Parliament day after day, measure after measure, precisely to achieve important results for our country and for those who are waiting for answers from us. In these months we have gathered thousands of requests from entrepreneurs, traders, workers, pensioners, students or ordinary citizens in difficulty and we have tried to give them a voice with all our strength. We are proud to have managed to move a few steps in their direction, although we are aware that the work to be done is still very much. The decree that this House is called upon to examine today makes substantial changes in various sectors and the title of decree-laws, as it has decided to rename it for a sort of lexical simplification, I do not think it can fully represent the true scope of the measure. In fact, the text provides not only important news on reopenings, but also rules on the reorganization and strengthening of public administration, rules on state examination for the admission to the exercise of the profession of forensics, norms for the increase of the budget of the National Fund for asylum policies and services, provisions for the protection of the Slovenian linguistic minority of the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and provisions on the protection of personal data. Honestly, in terms of capacity, while confirming that the issue of safety must always be the predominant one, we would have liked to see greater uniformity of action. In fact, we cannot help but notice and note some inconsistencies that continue to be perplexed. [[Applause]] Just to give a very representative example of the concept, I am thinking of the amendment tabled by Mr Pergreffi and other colleagues, who asked for the tourist buses to have a full capacity limited to the holders of the green certificate, which was then accepted by the Assembly, but which had not been accepted by the Government for reasons we are struggling to understand, given that this possibility is already available for long-distance aircraft and trains, while for local public transport, green certification is not required either. We welcome the decision of this House to accept our amendment which provides for the additional resources for the asylum fund provided for in the decree to be linked to the needs of the Afghan people alone. As a Group we are absolutely sensitive to the difficulties that thousands of Afghan women, men and children are experiencing, and we thought it important to avoid any possibility that the funds envisaged could then be used for purposes other than those originally planned, thereby reducing the help of which the Afghan people absolutely need. If a decree-law intervenes to activate 3,000 seats in the reception system as a result of the political crisis in Afghanistan, it is because there is the need and urgency to meet the needs of Afghan refugees, which our country has welcomed and is welcoming through official channels. So why not make this clear in the text, in the spirit of common sense and transparency, so that additional resources can not be directed elsewhere? [[Applause]] I also welcome the acceptance of our agenda to contribute and restore momentum to a sector - that of trade fair activity - which has been one of the most affected by the pandemic and which is a key sector for the economy of our country. A separate mention deserves, for the important and striking innovations proposed, the article that I consider more complex and, if we want, interesting for its content, namely Article 9, containing provisions on the protection of personal data. Mr President, I do not hide that the original drafting of Article 9 has raised many doubts and concerns, given the impact of the changes introduced by the Code on the protection of personal data, which required a limitation of the purpose because not only addressed to specific cases or missions for the PNRR, referring to the communication of data between public subjects without prior authorisation of the Guarantor and without additional legal or regulatory bases. These and other critical issues were highlighted in the various hearings held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which called for action in relation to the original wording of the article. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the measure, Mr Augussori, on the work of synthesis and synergy which he has managed to carry out on such a sensitive subject, proposing, in agreement with the Government and the other bodies concerned, a rewriting of Article 9 which seems to us more balanced and which is the perfect result of a work carried out with total professionalism. I believe that this can be seen as an example of how Parliament, by making full use of all its capabilities, must and still can play the central and essential role that it deserves and which it must always claim to play. [[Applause]] In this sense, I welcome the adoption of an amendment of ours aimed at making effective the protection of the telephone user through the use of the register of oppositions, intended to collect the requests of all those concerned who want to oppose the processing of their fixed and mobile telephone numbers. This amendment completes the systematic set-up outlined in Article 130 of the Code on the protection of personal data, making operational the instrument of withdrawal of consent possibly provided also for automatic calls. The theme of our citizens' privacy is for us the primary and indispensable League and that is why we are attentive to every detail. We know that misunderstandings or misunderstandings are not acceptable on such sensitive issues. It is from this point of view that I would like to focus on how health data are processed and on profiling which, if not carried out correctly, could lead to a de facto disapplication of existing legislation. Profiling is any form of automated processing of confidential data consisting of their use to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspects relating to professional performance, economic situation, health, preferences, interests, reliability, behaviour, location and travel. We can therefore say that the profiling activity consists of an automated processing that has a performance on personal data and evaluation purposes of the personal aspects of a natural person. It is easy to understand the invasive nature of this activity, which may result in harm and abuse to users if the data controller does not adopt particular cautions, even more so when it comes to health data... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u136	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator Riccardi, but I invite my fellow group leaders to speak to the adjacent government room or to lower their voices out of respect for those who are speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u137	Please, Senator. RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. The objective of this operation is certainly noble and acceptable. The aim is in fact to build in the coming years a modern health system on the Net among all the citizens, able to change concretely the functioning of the public health and improve the important action of the active prevention, affecting also the economicity of the expenditure. However, we must not forget that such a treatment must always be carried out in the pursuit of a relevant public interest in public health and that in any case the person concerned has the right not to be subject only to a decision based on automated processing (including profiling) that produces legal effects that affect him and affect him in the same way significantly on his person. In conclusion, even if we would have preferred such a topic to have been dealt with in a specific measure, we are overall satisfied with many of the innovations made, especially in terms of capacity and return to normality. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group has in fact always imposed itself to give back to Italian citizens the normality that has seemed too long a chimera and will continue to work to reach it step by step. Illustrated President, ladies and gentlemen, thanking you for your attention, I announce the vote in favour of the measure, as improved by the Assembly, of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, of which I honor to be part. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u140	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators and fellow senators, the measure before this House today provides for urgent measures for access to cultural, sporting and recreational activities as well as for the organisation of public administrations on the protection of personal data. It is a very important and delicate law that must, on the one hand, allow the revival of the productive system of our country after the serious damage suffered due to the blocking of the various activities due to the pandemic and, on the other hand, must take into account the health context that we are living that still does not allow us, unfortunately, to be able to lower our guard. The Movimento 5 Star approach to measures related to the pandemic by Covid-19 has always been the most precautionary in relation to the epidemiological situation. From the beginning, with the guidance of the Count II Government, we have built a system based on responsibility, systematic collaboration with the scientific community and the proportion of measures to the health situation. Today, fortunately, we are in a different scenario. Unfortunately, we cannot say that we have defeated enemy Covid-19, but we see the light well out of the tunnel. Thanks to the vaccination campaign started almost a year ago, thanks to responsible behaviour by citizens and thanks to the progress of the cure protocols we have partly recovered the normality of our daily lives. We must not disperse this formidable heritage of structures, health, knowledge and virtuous behavior, but we are also at a stage in which, never as today, every adopted measure and every approved decree-law must be based on criteria of balance, proportionality and adequacy. disproportionate restrictive measures give rise to the understandable anger of citizens and businesses who have come from almost two years of incalculable sacrifices. The measures must be measured with balance, if you introduce an oversized measure there is a reaction of the country. If they are not perceived as necessary and appropriate measures, the population is not behind you. These are the words that our President Giuseppe Conte spoke at the assembly of Confesercenti and that I share. Count added: The green pass I think is a good solution, today it allows us to face this fourth wave with the necessary security but I'm against to operate further tights. Let us bear these words in mind because they allow us to remain reasonable in a still complicated situation. As mentioned above, the measure addresses a number of issues which were examined during the examination at the first Commission, which improved the provisions in question. Thanks, in particular, to the work of the Movement, several important measures have been approved, first of all the one that brings an amendment to the 2017 budget law in order to exclude from the obligation to use the name ticket carnival events, masked courses and historical or similar re-enactments, the rides for access to shows and structures with a capacity of more than 5.000 spectators. It protects, therefore, an important sector for our country that was clearly at a disadvantage. On the subject of the holding of fairs in the presence of white and yellow areas, such as congresses and their relative capacity, our agenda was accepted and we hope that soon the Government will be able to live up to its commitment. On another subject we have discussed a great deal in the Commission. I refer to Article 9, which contains provisions on privacy and data protection. With regard to it many associations have this theme at heart; they have exposed themselves and debated on the printed paper and blogs highlighting how the topic is strongly followed and heard. The original rule introduced a disproportionate extension of the conditions which legitimate the processing of personal data, necessary for the exercise of public authority or in the public interest. In fact, it was expected that public administrations could define autonomously the legal bases and purposes of the processing of personal data if they were related to the exercise of the public authorities of which they are invested. Prior to the entry into force of the decree-law, on the other hand, the processing of personal data by public administrations was allowed only if there was an express rule of law authorising it. It is good to point out that the Data Protection Officer in his interventions has reiterated the need for a primary rule authorising the processing of the personal data of citizens by public administrations, precisely invoking the provision of article 2-b of the privacy code for processing that present high risks to the performance of a task of public interest, those provided for in article 2-ddecies that conferred to the Guarantor a power of preventive intervention in order to guarantee the respect of the rights and freedoms of citizens. The repeal of this power of intervention, accompanied by the extension of the powers of the public administration, according to the first formulation of the norm, created areas of risk for the rights and freedoms of citizens where the assessments carried out by the Guarantor in the preventive interventions were not implemented internally by the public administrations. Having said that, the ratio of the novella is clear: to allow a simplification with respect to the conditions that legitimize the public administration to carry out the processing of personal data in the fulfilment of its institutional purposes, a simplification certainly desirable because of the important amount of projects that public administrations inevitably are called to manage in this particular period, but that is consumed beyond the contingency as a change of system, destined to permanently affect the current discipline. If the need for simplification is to be welcomed, the health emergency cannot, however, overwhelm any bulwark to protect citizens' rights, as in the case in question. To remedy these distortions, as the Movimento 5 Star Group, we have tabled a number of amendments which have been transposed by the rapporteur and the Government, which have rewritten Article 9 of the measure. [[Applause]] On the basis of our proposals, firstly, rather than removing the need for a legal basis for processing, the list of possible legal bases has been extended, adding the general administrative acts. Such an intervention does not lead to a burden on the public subjects any holders of the treatments, since it simply requires them to adopt an administrative act of general scope, through which to identify the characteristics of the treatment that it is considered necessary to undertake for the pursuit of the institutional purposes attributed to them by the law. In addition, the role of the Guarantor has been recovered also in the post-approval phase: it is expected - for example - that, when the President of the Council of Ministers declares that reasons of urgency do not allow prior consultation - and in any case in the cases of adoption of decree-laws - the Guarantor will express the opinion in the parliamentary examination of the draft law or the laws of conversion of decree-laws or in the final examination of the draft legislative decrees submitted to the opinion of the Parliamentary Commissions. With our sub-amendments we have better defined the norm, extending from nine to twelve months the time limits within which the operators of the digital platforms keep the material subject of the report in the matter of revenge porn for the only probative purposes and with measures indicated by the Guarantor, suitable to prevent the direct identification of the interested ones. Finally, we supported the strengthening of the organic role with a corresponding allocation of resources for the Guarantee Authority. As stated again this year by the digital economy and society index (DESI), Italy is still at the last place in Europe for advanced digital skills. And it is also because of this that - in my opinion - the persistence of a prejudice that attacks the public administrations and the productive sector of the Country, namely that the privacy rule is an obstacle to simplification and digital transformation, a bureaucratic and administrative burden to be eliminated. Often, however, the legislation is misinterpreted. The aim is to allow the use of data processing for innumerable lawful purposes, but at the same time to carry out such processing in a correct way, always considering the ethical duty to protect the rights of the persons involved. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars and I hope that this measure will soon be converted into law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u142	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u143	PARAGO (Misto-Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, I am surprised by the surprise of my fellow Members with regard to the confusion of the majority. The confusion of the majority is reflected in the confusion of this decree-law capacity, which manages to put in pieces of reorganization of the Ministry of Health; temporary strengthening of the Central Office for the referendum at the Court of Cassation; enabling the exercise of the profession of lawyer and whatever else. In short, there are so many norms that within the decree-laws they are difficult to be inserted and, therefore, it seems to me like a push. Today, for the first time we have had a whisper of dignity on the part of Parliament, which regains its central role, humiliated and constantly frustrated by the vote of confidence that the poor Minister D'Incà is forced to place by reading the formula of rite. I am sorry and I see him in distress when, as Minister for Relations with Parliament, he himself is forced to put aside Parliament. For the first time, precisely in the decree-law capacity we tried to put ourselves back in the center and to make it clear to the government that, even if it is sought in the name of the emergency to keep everyone good, outside there is a country that needs answers. We have tried to give a few more answers: that is why we voted in favour of some of the amendments. In its plant, however, this decree-law is out of sync with respect to the country and to the needs of the Italians. I heard the story once again: We have recognized the freedom to vaccinate you or not. Then, though, if we have that freedom, we have a price to pay. If freedom and the right not to use vaccination is recognized, I do not understand why you want me or want to take away even one milligram of that freedom. This is the underlying political issue and I believe that we will still have time and time to talk about all the limits that you will impose on us. I would therefore like to thank Parliament and colleagues, because for the first time we have shown that we are still central in a parliamentary Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the final vote, I must point out that amendment 9.2, which was wrongly voted on, was foreclosed by the adoption of the previous one. Therefore, of course, the vote is nothing. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 139 of 8 October 2021 laying down urgent provisions for access to cultural, sporting and recreational activities, as well as for the organisation of public administrations and the protection of personal data" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). They voted and all too much; it has been noted, but it has still been approved. I have to speak on items not included on the agenda and I have no one to replace me in the Presidency, and I suspend the sitting for ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 2.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u147	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the World Day of Premature and Premature Child was celebrated yesterday. Monuments and hospitals illuminated by viola, videos, conferences and round tables that bring together professionals in the sector and representatives of parents are some of the initiatives organized by the Italian Society of neonatology in order to promote and pay attention to the complex problems, but also the great advances made by the intensive neonatal therapies of our National Health Service, which today allow almost miracles. The new techniques of cardiolung resuscitation and more and more accurate care allow today to save even extremely preterm babies. There are more than 30,000 premature births only in our country every year. With yesterday's World Day of Premature we celebrated the great strength and the desire to live of these little fighters and their families. It is an important signal, with which we give voice to the families of small patients, who every day live and live together with the many problems with which their little heroes, their great loves, are found and will still find themselves fighting as a result of their prematureity and complications in the short and long term that sometimes remain. The slogan "zero separation" aims to raise awareness of the need to support parents' closeness to their newborns. Parents are not visitors, but an integral part of the care. The early involvement of the family strengthens the emotional links and connections fundamental to the neurocognitive development of the child, whose positive effects can be seen at a distance. Skin contact and breast-feeding represent only some of the essential moments for a better development of the newborn in general, but in particular of these newborns. All this must always be done in compliance with the sanitary standards and the anti-Covid protocols. Zero separation, that is the parent-renowned proximity, must be supported and promoted: it is encouraged by all scientific societies and by the Italian Society of neonatology in the first place. A due thank you goes to all the health and parasanitary personnel of the intensive neonatal therapies, which every day operates with sacrifice, competence and professionalism to assist these little helpless beings. November 17 is the day for a hymn to life that is born. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u150	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, today I would like to ask a question that I have put to the Ministries of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the ecological transition. When we go to the territory - at least we of Movimento 5 Stars - we have the habit of listening to everyone, even small and medium-sized enterprises and their problems. What is the problem with the automotive sector? The electric charging network fails to keep pace with the growing development of the electric car market. This is something that we have been pursuing for some time, which is very important to us and is one of the fundamental links if we are to make a real transition. Between delays and bureaucratic delays, Italy is not yet up to date in the development of charging infrastructure, despite the budget law for 2021 required to create a network of high-potential charging infrastructure by 30 June 2021, but at present the implementation plan is blocked. Given that the energy transition is based on two key pillars (incentive policies for the renewal of the fleet and the deployment of charging infrastructure for electric vehicles on both the road network and the motorways), without these instruments it will be difficult to achieve the European objectives and above all it will be very difficult to make a transition in the automotive sector. We therefore ask to intervene in the areas of competence in order to facilitate the installation of charging columns for electric vehicles and to simplify the procedures provided for their authorisations, also in compliance with the commitments of Mission 2 "Green Revolution and ecological transition" of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u153	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise at the end of the sitting, seeking, through you, to appeal to Minister Hope - or to hope, perhaps it is more appropriate to say: [[Applause]] - since August 3rd he has a question in his drawer, never as today on the agenda. From the leaking news, there seems to be an increase in contagion. We, through this question, called for the transparency of the data, also to encourage the vaccine, avoiding the surreptitious obligations and the tightening of the tones related to the green pass, on which we should make a reflection. It seemed essential to us to know clearly and clearly what were the percentages of infected, hospitalized, hospitalized in intensive care and, unfortunately, deceased among those who were vaccinated and those who were not. Especially now that we have started the third dose, even on the over 40, we must try to avoid convincing people through the surreptitious obligation of the green pass, which at this moment aggravates the tones. As our Parent Company rightly said, we try to stay calmer; perhaps transparency would help. Even - I think it will be news in a few days - it is thought to give the authorization to vaccinate children: that is, we vaccinate children under the age of eleven to defend those who do not want to vaccinate and who are of an advanced age; it seems to me something inconsistent. We call for this instrument, namely transparency of data once and for all. [[Applause]] I feel like asking the Minister a few things. The first: why hasn't he answered yet? Mine is therefore a hope, turned to Hope, in the hope that it can give us this data. Secondly, I would like to know whether you do not believe that data transparency is a more effective means than any surreptitious obligation and therefore to be encouraged. At this point, I wonder if I should force my offices to submit this question in Chinese, given the sensitivity that the Minister demonstrates towards that country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u154	Senator Ripamonti, I'll be happy to read it in Chinese.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u157	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, these days we have learned from the press that Minister Cartabia has asked his American counterpart to return to Italy Chico Forti. A note released by the Ministry of Via Arenula renewed its request for a transfer, so that he can serve in his country the sentence to which he was sentenced in Florida, at the end of a trial for murder from nebulous contours, full of flaws and without concrete evidence at his expense. I warmly thank Minister Cartabia for his work and hope that he will continue to pay close attention to this dramatic case, so that it can have at least a happy ending. Minister, I ask you to move forward with tenacity. We have to reach the target without wasting any more time. It was in fact December 23, 2020 when the Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio announced in a dramatic way that Chico Forti would return to Italy, perhaps underestimating the complexity of the procedure. On 29 March, the Minister announced that Forti would be transferred to another penitentiary, to which they would be assigned inmates pending transfer. Since then we have not known anything, despite our country eagerly await the return of Chico Forti and his family has been fighting for over twenty years against what seems to be a huge judicial error, which literally destroyed his life and all those who love him. On 16 June, Mr President, I put a question to find out what will happen to Chico. No one answered me. Today, one year after the announcement made by Minister Di Maio, I renew my request to the Government to have answers, but here in the Chamber and not in the press. So, Mr President, through you I ask the Government, Minister Cartabia and Minister Di Maio himself to come and answer me. They don't have to do it for me, but for Chico Forti, for his family and for all those who have become attached to him, even if they don't know him, and who want updates on his sad story. While waiting for an answer, finally, I want to appeal to President Draghi, aware of the esteem he enjoys at international level and of the intellectual honesty that distinguishes him. President Draghi, do something. Help Chico Forti return to his country. No one will ever be able to repay him; his family cannot even be compensated for the years that have been stolen and for all the pain that he has experienced. However, if there has been an injustice, it must somehow be healed. President Draghi, intervene. Chico has been waiting for our country to lend him a hand for over 20 years. Let's show him we didn't leave him alone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u160	De Bonis (Misto). Mr President, I want to bring to your attention two emblematic cases of the lack of balance between the gaps that still grip our country. I would remind you that the rebalancing of territorial gaps is one of the objectives expressly indicated by the European Union and that we are therefore obliged to respect it. The first case concerns bank foundations. We understand that the Compagnia di São Paulo, of Turin origin, has designed a Next generation We for the exclusive benefit of some municipalities, those of the North-West: a sort of support system in services to win the PNRR notices. I would like to point out that the credit institution controlled by the Compagnia di San Paolo, which is moreover Intesa San Paolo, which also took over the Banco di Napoli, operates throughout Italy and abroad and is very present in the south, also thanks to the old branches of the Banco di Napoli. How, then, does saving in Italy work? The current accounts of the southern countries are fine, but when it comes to redistributing resources, we only think of some municipalities, those of our own home. I remember, among other things, that out of 86 foundations in Italy, only ten are in the South, disadvantaged even in the ability to attract funds, as if everything else were not enough. However, it is not only about the Compagnia di São Paulo: other foundations are also settling in this way; just see what happens with Monte dei paschi di Siena. Let us move on to the second case, which concerns the fund for the reduction of waiting lists included in the draft budget bill. We understand that the Region that will benefit most of all will be Lombardy, in general the North, and that the South will go only 33.4 percent, according to the calculations. Now, if this division with the swingbar may seem at first glance correct, in fact it is not. It is well known that the regions of the South suffer the most from waiting lists, so much so that southern citizens are often forced to make real journeys of hope to cure themselves: I have also put a question on this issue. In this case, however, it is not even just a question of extraordinary funds, as those of the PNRR are, because we must also talk about the national ordinary fund, which we would need a revision of. Mr President, on behalf of all the citizens of the South, I would therefore like to make a public request, both to the Government and to Parliament, of these two facts, which I regard as extremely serious and which tell us that the road to equality is still very long.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u161	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-381.ana.u162	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 25 November, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.22 p.m.
