ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 17 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u4	I communicate that on 23 February 2021 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Health: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 15 of 23 February 2021 laying down further urgent provisions on movement within the national territory and for the containment of the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19 of 2100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u5	I communicate that on 23 February 2021 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: By way of derogation from the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Council Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Extension of the deadline for the conclusion of the proceedings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events in the "Il Forteto" community (2101).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u6	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and timetable until 2 March. The agenda for today's sitting includes, after the commemoration of President Marini, around 10:45 a.m., the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the tragic events that took place in Congo on 22 February. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. After the House's sanitization, at 1.30 p.m., the Minister of Health will make communications on further measures to address the emergency Covid-19. The Groups have three hours at their disposal, distributed proportionally, including speeches under general discussion and explanations of vote. At tomorrow's sitting and, if necessary, on Friday, the decree-law extends the terms approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday, March 2, at 16.30, for the discussion of the decree-law containing further provisions for the containment of the Covid-19 and for the 2021 elections. The Conference of Leaders is convened, again on Tuesday 2 March, at 3 p.m., to define the further topics of the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u7	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met yesterday, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the schedule of proceedings until 2 March: [[Wednesday 24 February h. 9.30 a.m. - Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the tragic events in Congo on 22 February - Communications by the Minister for Health on further measures to deal with the emergency COVID-19 (Wednesday 24, 13.30 a.m.) - Draft Law No 2101 - Decree-Law No 183/2020, Extension of terms (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 1 March) Thursday 25 " h. 9.30 a.m. Friday 26 " h. 9.30 a.m. (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2101 (Decree-Law No 183/2020, Extension of time limits) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, March 2, h. 16,30 Drawing of law n. 2066 - Decree-Law n. 2, Additional containment provisions COVID-19 and elections 2021 (expires on March 15)]] Distribution of communications time of the Minister of Health on further measures to address the emergency COVID-19 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 20' PD 20' FdI 15' IV-PSI 15' European-MAIE-CD 13' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 12']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2101 (Decree-Law No 183/2020, Extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' Mixed 34' PD 33' FdI 26' IV-PSI 25' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2066 (Decree-Law No 2, Additional provisions contained COOVID-19 and elections 2021) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 53' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' Mixed 34' PD 33' FdI 26' IV-PSI 25' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u10	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, yesterday the Brothers of Italy brought three proposals for changes to the timetable to the Conference of the Leaders, but it is only for one of them that we are voting. I am pleased to be able to explain in this House the political reason for our request. Brothers of Italy asks that the President of the Council come to the Chamber, or this afternoon, after the communications of Minister Hope, or tomorrow morning (the times would be) to report ahead of the European Council on 25 and 26 February. It is an extraordinary European Council, compared to the four canons, convened with a very long and very interesting letter of convocation by the President of the European Council, Charles Michel. If you read, as I did, the letter of convocation, you will realize the extreme importance of the Council, which is divided into two days. Friday is about safety, but tomorrow afternoon, at 3 p.m., it is only about the issues of the pandemic, according to an agenda that addresses the issue of the authorisation, production and distribution of vaccines in the European context. It is clear that the letter calling for the extraordinary Council stresses that Europe must review its strategy in terms of containment, including with regard to the new alarming variations, as well as in terms of programming, production and distribution of vaccines. This is, therefore, a crucial issue, of which, of course, at the only time that the Aules met President Draghi, it was not possible to speak. It is a question, however, that should characterize the change of pace of this Government. It is a matter that President Draghi has invoked almost personally to himself, precisely to underline the strategic importance for the exit from the pandemic crisis: to vaccinate everyone and as soon as possible. If you read the letter of convocation, there is not a word that does not affect all citizens. Therefore, this is an extraordinary and extremely important Council on health issues that are most annoying to us. I am convinced, in my personal hearing, and I come to say that if President Draghi listened to our request, he would prove more sensitive than his majority patchwork, which will certainly oppose it. This issue, among other things, not only concerns all citizens, but also calls into question opposition. As has been said several times, in fact, our opposition, the only one at the moment in this House, has confirmed, from the outset, that it is willing to support the measures that are useful for Italy. It is clear that the issue of vaccines all calls for accountability. Since, in European management, by the very admission of von der Leyen, unfortunately there have been some problems, it is good to know what will be discussed and what Italy will say at the extraordinary European Council. The press is anticipating a call between our President and President Merkel on this matter. It is all right, for Christ's sake, but we believe that, in the democratic and parliamentary dynamic, on a subject such as this, which is not political but vital and concerns everyone, a transition to the Chambers, in view of this very important extraordinary European Council, would be very opportune and would be a fine gesture, as well as a gesture of great discontinuity compared to a past that has seen us almost accustomed - in our case forced - to see the customary passages and information in Parliament emptied. When I object - because it happened - that there is no legal obligation, because the latter concerns only the four canonical European Councils envisaged, I leave the burden of proof to those who contest. Everyone knows, in fact, that in the last year and a half there has been an extraordinary practice of Councils compared to the four canons for two reasons: on the one hand, because of the emergency, the pandemic, the condition in which Europe is in both health and economic terms, on the other, also because of the possibility that these meetings will take place, as will be tomorrow, on videoconferencing. Beyond the formality or not - not by now in this element - and whether or not there are final communications, which are not provided for, the point is exquisitely political and of fundamental importance: it is appropriate to inform Parliament of what is intended to support tomorrow's extraordinary European Council, in particular the one on vaccines and the fight against pandemics, and to gather from these assemblies, while contingency times if necessary, any proposal useful to strengthen our demands and our contribution in Europe. The opposition's request, therefore, is not a whimsical or destructive request, on the contrary, it is exactly the opposite. That is why, Mr President, I would ask that we put to the vote a change in our timetable of work which includes the information of the President, between this afternoon and tomorrow morning, in view of the European Special Council on the subjects of vaccinations, the fight against the pandemic and the safety issues that concern Friday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u13	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking to announce our vote against the proposal to amend the timetable, but at the same time to address the Government so that, as far as possible, even in the face of these non-final videoconference Councils, we can come to Parliament and discuss issues relating to European issues here. That is the invitation we make. On this occasion, unfortunately, both the communications of Minister Hope, and the information of Minister Di Maio, and of course the one thousandprorogations decree in expiration probably prevent us from going in this direction, but in the future we ask the Government that - whether they are on videoconference or not, whether they are final or not - if there is a meeting of the European Council we come to Parliament and discuss the issues on the agenda. I think that there is absolutely no problem for us to deal with all the issues, also given the delicate and emergency moment we are going through.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u16	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will also vote against the request made by Senator Rauti, who also has his reasons, because undoubtedly the issues that will be addressed at the European Council are important, so we hope that in the future there will still be an intercourse with the President of the Council at the European Council. The circumstances and times, however, suggest that we do not ask the President-in-Office of the Council to speak in this House today, even considering the fact that last week we have already held it in this House for fourteen hours and that he himself has shown great willingness to do so. We appreciate the presence of the Government, we particularly wish it with a Government of such a large parliamentary majority, but on this occasion we consider it more appropriate that there should not be this further step, although we will certainly greatly appreciate this presence in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u17	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Rauti, to include on today's or tomorrow's day the communications of the President of the Council with a view to the European Council on 25 and 26 February. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u20	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, in this House, where so many have known him, first of all I want to say that Franco Marini was above all a great personality, a great man: great for the sharpness of his mind, for the consistency, for the ability to listen and for humanity; but today let me say that, together with Franco Marini... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u21	Colleagues, please, a memorial would require silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u22	[[Applause.]] ZANDA (PD). I said, President, that, together with Franco Marini, we must also say two words to remember with emotion our ambassador Luca Attanasio and his escort [[Live, prolonged applause]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And Italy honors them with the respect and admiration that is owed to the dead heroes in the name of the country, to fulfill their duty and to bring peace to the world. Franco Marini was also a man of peace: he had great responsibilities and always carried them out with the same friendliness, the same care with which he addressed both the greats of the Earth and the men who were lower than him. Rarely has a personality of politics and union been surrounded by a respect and by such unanimous popularity as Franco Marini. When I met him he led the CISL together Pierre Carniti, and to him and to Carniti I owe much of my civil formation. It was the time of the great union leaders, who knew how to become a general class, holding together the protection of workers and the interest of the country, with a far-sighted vision of the future and a lot of attention to the younger generations. But they were also hard times: there was the Cold War and terrorism, and Franco Marini lived that season putting the firmness of his character at the service of the defence of Italian democracy and society. In politics and union he fought for unity. In these days he would have liked the repeated calls to the unity of President Draghi, to whom, of course, he would have made his most sincere wishes for good work. He would also observe that today, in the government, in the union and in civil society, there are those who possess the qualities necessary to collect the witness of a season, which had in him a true champion. Franco Marini was a hombre vertical, a man with the same straight back as his master Carlo Donat-Cattin and, at the presidency of the Senate, he governed our work with that authoritativeness that, for those who sit in that chair, comes before the Rules and Conference of the Leaders. Those who met him as Minister of the Republic remember his firm hand, his ability to work and the lucidity of the choices. Whoever made politics with him remembers the strength with which, in the midst of the endless divisions of a rising political area, he could defend the principles of unity and uphold the values in which he believed. Today we can say that, throughout his life, Franco Marini has been genuinely democratic and that he has been in the depths, never in an occasional or superficial way, never only for the duty of deployment. He knew that democracy is not an empty word, but that it sums up in itself how much better political thought has been able to elaborate over the centuries and millennia. In everything and for everything he was a man of the State and institutions. Moreover, in the confidence of our conversations, he often seemed to have a marked sympathy for libertarian spirits. In his friendship with Marco Pannella there was something more than their character and their being Abruzzo: there was a common fund of love for freedom and rights. We were very close: both liked great values, politics and life. A special friendship, of those you rarely meet. Franco Marini knew how to enjoy life. For years, often, in the evening, at the end of work, he took me to drink a glass of wine around the winery of the center of Rome and were moments of pure fun, but for me also moments of great school. We talked for a long time and I knew his magnitudes and weaknesses. I listened to him talking about his love for his wife, for his son David and for his beloved granddaughter. I heard him talk about the Gran Sasso, where he concentrated the greatest beauty of nature. I witnessed your contempt for conformism and flattery. Whoever has known him will never forget his always high forehead, his direct gaze, his blue beret, his fiery jokes, the elegant movement of his hands, his quick step: the step of an alpine, who never stops. He's gone, he's also struck by the tragedy that is taking the lives of so many Italians. Today we remember him for that great person he was, but I'm sure he would have liked us to remember him as one of our 90,000 deaths from the terrible Covid epidemic. Political life has given him great satisfaction, but in the end also the bitterness of seeing unknown maturity, experience, balance and depth of thought of so many personalities of his generation. Several times I have heard him remember, with his beautiful smile so communicative, that the nations grow only if they can accompany the freshness of the youngest to the experience of the oldest. The word destruction was not in his vocabulary, because improvisation and adventure preferred experience and culture. The words he loved and used a lot were different: work, community, school and solidarity. Franco Marini died silently and with dignity. He was a lay believer and, to you, I have heard him reflect on the destiny that awaits man beyond his life. I think the Senate won't forget that. Rest in peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u23	I note that at the end of this commemoration and before the intervention of Minister Di Maio, as agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, there will be the commemoration of Ambassador Luca Attanasio and the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u26	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally agree with the words which the President of the Commission expressed in memory of Franco Marini just before President Draghi's first speech in this House a few days ago and I personally greatly appreciated Senator Zanda's speech. It is very difficult to talk about a personality with which you have traveled a stretch of the road and you have discussed, even quarreled about breaking up, and at the same time feel the charm and relevance that she has had in the history of this Senate. I would like to remind him, in fact, first of all as President of the Senate, a partisan, a union man, a party man, but capable of serving the institutions in a two-year period which is far from as simple as that of 2006-2008, and then as political leader. It is therefore an attempt that I am going to make starting from three memories of Franco Marini, that I would personally keep in my heart and that are at the same time three great arguments that politics will have to continue to face, because it likes to think of Franco Marini as a person whose inheritance is strong, not memory. The first theme: Franco Marini was a man who knew and loved a word that today is no longer fashionable in political parties and communities and the word is organization. When there was a role to be discussed, Franco Marini aimed to make, before the political secretary, the organizational secretary: for those who come from his experience it has become a common fact, but for those who have known this new way of doing politics, which is not only that of breaking up, but that of populism, polling and consensus that goes and that comes, it seems impossible the organization. Add that the organization of the CISL of the seventies and eighties (the Senator Parent knows better than I do) or the organization of the Christian Democracy, then of the internal currents and then of the People's Party, were quite different from today's organization. There is a date, Mr President, which in my opinion marks Franco Marini's political life and it is 1999, not because of his lack of election to the Quirinale, on which I will return in the final, but because in that year his party, which is also the first to which I joined, the Italian People's Party (Franco Marini was the first secretary of a party to which I joined), suffers a resounding defeat in the European elections and suffers it mainly for the responsibility of a newborn party that was then the Democrats (the donkey) that for Marini is incomprehensible. In that element there is a great theme that I would like to entrust to our reflection, if we want to consider Marini alive and his thought as a forerunner of further reflections: how is politics organized and also - I add - the union in our time? How can we keep the political community together with consensus in such a difficult context? Marini on this has been an absolute master, able to take note that the world around him was changing, which also many of his had not understood. Marini had understood that that organizational model did not work; he tried to preside over it and to find the right solutions to a very complicated theme: the organization. The second theme is the history of democratic Catholicism. Italy is a country in which democratic Catholicism has written the most important pages of republican history and has done so even when it has become a minority. Franco Marini had to take note of this new season of the democratic Catholic experience, because he became secretary of the PPI at the time of a deep division, for which he was also to some extent responsible. It's been years, but the moment the Senate dedicates a moment of commemoration I think it's right to go down for a moment in depth. The wound - as the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism knows much better than I do - which I thank for being here - was a crazy tear for an entire generation, especially for the generation of the Minister and other friends I see in all areas of the House. It was in fact a huge division, which was bleeding; it was not simply a division like so many (many we have seen and many we will see) within political experiences, but it was a historical division. However, in his experience in CISL, in Christian Democracy, in the PPI and - less - in the Margaret and in the Democratic Party, Franco Marini has always held high the flag of democratic Catholicism in a secular vision, as Senator Zanda recalled a few moments ago. I like to think not only of the Senate, not only in our congressional discussions, some of which were really incredible: I, as a young people, was among the referees to the probivir and the table went directly to the national secretary Franco Marini, who had no title to intervene but intervened, because it was in theory a different organization; this to say how bad Marini was in the lives of so many of us. I like to remember him in Via della Piazzuola, at the CISL Study Centre in Florence, in a place where CISL had a careful look at trade union disputes, but he was able to train trade union leaders all over the world. A gaze capable of keeping the little one together with the great, the concreteness with the ideal: we owe him also for this. Where will the organizational model of tomorrow of the political community go and where will the history of democratic Catholicism go tomorrow? Answering these questions means keeping Franco Marini's thinking alive. Finally, Mr President, I would like to address the subject of the personal report. I fought Franco Marini when, in 2013, the then Democratic Party put him in a tern for the Quirinale and, then, a large coalition nominated him for the Presidency of the Republic. Then I had with some friends the desire to say clearly why Franco Marini's candidacy did not seem the most correct. I did so without having a parliamentary role, because then I was mayor, so I was not among the great electors, but I did it very clearly, with a letter to the Republic, explaining that who had candidated at that time Franco Marini had not done him good. Franco Marini's candidacy, in fact, was born then as justified precisely by his Catholic membership, not by his institutional experience, not by his union experience, not by his political, social and community life. No. It was said that, having elected President Grasso to the Senate and President Boldrini to the Chamber, having indicated as President of the Council in charge of Mr Bersani, there was a need for a rebalancing of the Catholic area, after seven years of Giorgio Napolitano. That approach was wrong for me, as was the wrong approach of those who wanted to run it in the first vote. In fact, when you want to defend a candidate in the Quirinale elections, if you are not sure (and the only cases of security were in 1985 and 1999, with two phenomena more unique than rare), you keep it covered, as happened in 2006 to Giorgio Napolitano and in 2015 to Sergio Mattarella. Those who ran for first vote evidently wanted to run for office without too much conviction. However, I am not interested in that; I am interested in saying something that concerns me. Mr President, I have happened - and I thank heaven and my friends, who have shared these years of political activity - to be in many cases a person who has had to make choices and, as such, many people have had important roles thanks to the choices we have made, which are totally legitimate - questionable but legitimate. Mr President, I do not think you are surprised, but I will tell you that in many cases it can happen that when you make choices and select people, from Commissioners to Ministers, not everyone has that feeling of gratitude that would be imaginable; it is said that in politics gratitude does not exist. However, I would like to point out that Franco Marini gave me an extraordinary personal lesson, because he is one of the few who, not only did not receive anything in the years when I had some role both the Government and the Party, but he was also able at that time to reward me for a personal relationship and a friendship that went totally beyond the fact that I had not supported his candidacy. I was embarrassed, but when he chose to work with me and with us in the government, as president of the historical-scientific committee for anniversaries of national interest, and the party, as head of the guarantors, the most beautiful thing was to meet his gaze - we had discussed, had quarreled - and to feel called "President" or "secretary," depending on the place where we were finding a man rich in humanity. [[Applause]] I would like young people to understand this. Franco Marini was one of those that I had helped to block and that did not take away for a minute the great feeling of the relationship of friendship. Mr President, let Franco Marini's example continue to sound for our young people. Let the land of Abruzzo be light, dear Franco. All of us hope that we can be able and have the capacity not only to answer questions about the organization and meaning of Catholics engaged in politics, but also about the humanity of a man for whom the greatest pain for me is to think that he died alone - he who has always lived with others - like all the 90,000 Covid patients in this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u29	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the President of the Republic of Sergio Mattarella said, Franco Marini belonged to the ranks of those who have been able to transfuse into the institutions the passion and values of genuine aspirations matured among the people. In the social battles that characterized his life one could read the anxiety of ransom of the populations of the suburbs of the country. The union, the CISL, as has already been said, was his home. He entered in the early 1960s with a position at the Confederal Organizational Office until becoming its Secretary General in February 1985. Those were difficult years and hard battles in the world of work. Just remember the strong contrasts between trade unions and parties on the escalator and the referendum that followed. It was also the years of terrorism when the union turned out to be the architrave of the defense of democracy against those who wanted to subvert the republican order. In 1991 Franco Marini was called by President Giulio Andreotti to play the role of Minister of Labour, but above all of the workers, as he liked to correct. He began his long political career, which led him to the presidency of the Senate in April 2006. In his inaugural speech he said: "I will be the President of the whole Senate." (...) The President of all of you, with great attention to respect for the prerogatives of the majority and those of the opposition, as it must be in a true bipolar democracy that I believe I have modestly contributed, even with my contribution, to achieving in our country. It was an example for those who, like me, have the honour to sit in these same minds, remembering when, although pervaded by a bitterness, he could react with great dignity to the failure to elect the Presidency of the Republic. Although he was a candidate for the center-left and a large part of the center-right and despite the 521 votes collected at the first vote, he decided to desist and give up. His bitterness, of which we were witnesses, was not dictated by a lost glory, rather by the misery of some party colleagues who preferred the alchemy currents to his election despite the word given. This was President Marini, a man in love with politics as an analysis of social phenomena, as a conscience of his public duties, as a spirit of service, as a care for common goods. In this idea of politics he has always sought the face and the stories of people and territories putting them at the center of his commitment. He was a popular politician who of democratic Catholicism had made his essence of public and private life; a wise interlocutor able to find a political mediation, never downwards and always in the interest of the community. By Franco Marini I also want to remember the attachment to his land, Abruzzo, to which he was bound by an indissoluble love; even when he was President of the Senate he frequently and secretly returned, he, an alpine proud of his hat and black pen, who loved to parade with friends to strengthen a youth bond punctually renewed. We will continue to parade, dear Franco, still doing, although a little more alone, those long walks in our mountains, perhaps retracing the paths of the partisan formations of the Maiella Brigade that you loved so much. We will remember your great moral rigor and your continuous invitation to dialogue, confrontation and above all to the synthesis advanced between the most distant positions to pursue the common good; a legacy that I believe must be collected beyond the political belongings. Today in this House we feel that we are saying thank you to President Marini; a gratitude not of circumstance, but that we feel strong for his constant commitment to the promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms, especially with regard to the world of work. The regret for his disappearance that he left in the heart of all of us is great. But still alive is the sense of the lack of his gaze and of his thought, which warn those who have been close to him and who, like myself, have had the privilege of his friendship. My personal condolences and those of the Movimento 5 Star go to the family. Thank you, President Marini. Thank you, Franco. It was an honor and a great privilege to meet you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u32	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League also wishes to recall an institutional figure that has been very important for our country and for the Senate. It is nice to read in his biography as Franco Marini, from a village in the Abruzzo Apennines, then passed to Rieti, where he began his activity as a young man in defense of work and workers. It was his mission, for which he had an important vision, that he was able to bring within his activity, not only trade union, but also political and institutions. He was a Member of Parliament for six legislatures (four in the Chamber and two in the Senate), then becoming President of the Senate. As has been mentioned by my fellow Members who had the honour of meeting him - I have unfortunately not had this pleasure and this honour - he has been an incredibly simple but great and solid person, who I think can remain an example for all of us. He founded his work on Christian values of freedom and democracy; he understood politics as a capacity to contribute to democratic choices for the democratic and social progress of the country. He was also MEP and president of the Italian People's Party, so really a builder of our country, a builder of associations, parties and institutions. She was a person of great common sense and always respectful of roles, with the ability to interloquire to always try to progress. President Draghi, in his initial programmatic speech, made a fundamental passage in my opinion, which I see very consistent with the figure of Marini. He spoke of humility, which is a concept that does not stifle with greatness and authority, indeed it is part of it. Humility, in fact, means having the space to understand, know, listen and grow. We should all perhaps practice this virtue. It was an essay and was indeed a backbone of the institutions. I think it is important to make these figures known to the youngest, especially at this time when the most think that politics is something negative that cannot give ideas and that it is a negative theatrical representation of society. These modalities, which are proper to Marini but also to many other men of the institutions that unfortunately we have commemorated, should be known to serve as the guide of the generations that must grow. The passion for politics must grow as a place not of prestige and power, but of construction. I like to remember President Marini as a great builder within the institutions. To the family, to the groups of the left, to the PD and to the center-left, the League expresses condolence and closeness. Let the earth be light to you, President Marini. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u35	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Franco Marini has been one of the great protagonists of the political life of our country for decades and, before that, a very important figure of Italian trade unionism. In all his years of activity and in all his commitments he managed to keep various aspects united and was able to build already in the union and then in his political life great international relations, yet deeply linked to his land. He was a state man of very high prestige who reached the highest positions of the Republic and, at the same time, alpine among the Alps, who was at ease among the common people in the most varied circumstances. The highest office held was that of President of the Senate in an extremely difficult legislature, perhaps the most difficult. There were disputes even in the election of the President, with the ballots contested because of the use of different expressions. In addition, in that parliamentary term the majority was based on very few votes each vote was a kind of battle. There were also bitter polemics, but Franco Marini knew how to be appreciated both on the side that had expressed it, to which he deeply belonged, both on the other side, showing ability to understand the reasons of others and a great capacity and meaning of the institutions. His presidency, perhaps precisely because it took place in such a difficult period, was so much appreciated by the parties that five years after the center-right (in particular we, who at the time were The People of Freedom and today Forza Italia) voted him firmly in 2013 for the election of the President of the Republic. [[Applause]] On that occasion - let us remember - he had less votes than needed, but more votes than several other Presidents of the Republic who were also elected. At that stage, in fact, two thirds were required and not an absolute majority, as was the case after that. I believe that this was a great and concrete recognition. It was also recalled here that not everyone, even on his side, supported him; we did so with conviction. Now that, as the Alpines say of their fallen, "it has gone ahead," we want to express gratitude to Franco Marini for his civil commitment, for his great humanity, for his ability to have strong convictions and ideas, which he has consistently and courageously supported, but also for the curiosity of knowing and understanding the ideas of others, of knowing how to appreciate people beyond the deployment in which they are. I believe that these are fundamental virtues for a policy that wants to build more than destroy, unite rather than divide. Virtues that today are particularly necessary for the political phase we live in. I therefore address a great thank you to Franco Marini for everything he has done in the institutions and, personally, for his friendship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to indicate another figure of Italian democratic Catholicism that has played a fundamental role such as that of Franco Marini at all the different levels of democratic life in Republican, trade union, political and institutional Italy. Franco Marini was first of all a trade unionist, combative, coriaceous and tenacious, as few, in his battles in defense of the workers. The union has been its life for a long time. Formed with the great leaders of Cisl, Pastor and Storti, he was one of the protagonists of the union unity season. Marini was certainly an exponent of Christian democracy, but he was determined to put the interests of the workers, which he represented, ahead of those of any party. He was a great organizer, a practical and capable man as few. For this reason Martinazzoli wanted him to be responsible for the organization of the new party that was born from the ashes of Christian Democracy, the Italian People's Party in 1992. The leap into politics had already done so, becoming Minister of Labour in the last government Andreotti, but when he chose to take on an active role in the party, Marini really became a total politician all round, endowed not only with extraordinary practical skills, but also with a great vision and a horizon. He wanted and had to ferry democratic Catholicism into a new Republic and then into a new century. He knew that the era of the great Catholic party took everything, capable of keeping within itself all the nuances of the political framework, from the right to the left, had ended irreversibly and never had doubts that democratic Catholicism should be firmly placed in the center-left. No one more than he opposed the attempt of the secretary of the PPI Buttiglione to move the party to the right-hand front. That attempt failed largely thanks to the skill of Marini and it is not exaggerated saying that the outcome of that confrontation changed the history of this country. He himself assumed the leadership of the PPI and carried it once and for all within the center-left. Marini was in fact always in the union, in the government and in the party a left man, never extremist, but not even moderate, if by this term we mean an ideological position willing to transition; pragmatic, yes, waterproof to the mermaids of utopia, in politics as it had been in the union. In the last part of his life he was a man of the institutions, President of the Senate - we all remember, I first - capable of really standing above the sides, even during a short and very troubled legislature, as was the one of 2006-2008. But I want to say that with Franco Marini the center-left, who owed him so much, was very ungrateful. His candidacy as President of the Republic in 2013 was unfortunately mowed by friendly fire that aimed to overturn the balances in the Democratic Party, even at the cost of sacrificing the men who had laid the foundations for the very existence of the party: first Marini and, then, Romano Prodi. Franco's bitterness for that ugly page of our political history was known but he never made a tragedy of it, he never gave up on accusations or complaints; he never gave in, even for a minute, to resentment. He remained until the last a lucid and sharp observer, ironic and profound of Italian politics; often present at the Senate, where many of us met him. For many of us it was a pleasure, as well as an exercise of extreme analytical utility, to discuss with him the addresses that Italian politics was taking. But the blow was not easy, even if sustained with the strength and dignity of the Marsican wolf. We always joked about his definition because I told him that he was not from Marsica, but from Gran Sasso, but wolf yes, as we love wolves. Trade unionist, political leader and President of the Senate, Franco Marini was an essential part of the history of the Republic. The protagonist of his transformation and witness, whether he agreed or disagreed with him, of a policy understood in his broadest sense, deployed, but open-faced, of part as always in politics, but never biased, as it should never be. He's gone, Franco, struck by this terrible pandemic. We're gonna miss you, we're gonna miss your advice, we're gonna miss your irony, we're gonna miss your ideas. On behalf of the Senators of Liberi and Equals and the Mixed Group, we wish to express our condolences once again to your family and your party. Goodbye, Franco. Goodbye, you old Marsican wolf who are now in your mountains. May the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u41	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, I would like to join in the words of condolence of Senator Zanda and all the colleagues who preceded me. The disappearance of President Marini is certainly a serious lack for our institutions and for our democracy, a loss I believe irretrievable because Franco Marini has been throughout his life at the service of the institutions, at the service of the people and often at the service of the weakest, the least guaranteed, first in the union and then with a very long parliamentary career culminated, in 2006, with the election as President of the Senate in this Chamber. It was an election on the wool thread that did not prevent him, in his speech of settlement, to assert with conviction and force that he would be the President of all the senators, a man of the State, a man of the institutions. And he kept this commitment because Franco Marini was really a sincere democrat, not in words but in fact and never once failed his respect for the opponent, no matter how far from his ideas. An example that today should be taken seriously by the many haters that unfortunately every day are still at work: there is no democracy without respect for opponents. This is the great teaching that Franco Marini wanted to give us from the high seat of President of the Senate. I think it is also right to remember that Franco Marini is the only one who has obtained the majority of the votes in the election as President of the Republic, without becoming one because, as we know, in the first three votes it is necessary to reach the quorum of two thirds of the voters. He obtained an absolute majority of votes in one of the first three votes. I believe that this demonstrates, beyond any doubt, the great esteem and gratitude that all politics and Parliament had for this great man, certainly far from our ideas, but that for this very reason deserves all our respect and our heartfelt remembrance for the example that he gave us and that we hope he will guide today's politics and the young people of tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u44	MARILOTTI (Europeans-MAIE-CD). Mr President, I would like to express on behalf of the Europeanist-MAIE-Democratic Centre Group the sentiments of sincere condolence for the disappearance of an illustrious protagonist of the Italian union and politics. Franco Marini has been an authoritative member of this Assembly and President of the Senate. A man of undisputed integrity, engaged on the themes of work, on the strengthening of parliamentary democracy, in his life has distinguished himself by profound wisdom, moderation and lucidity with which he has faced union disputes and political conflicts that have crossed the history of our country. Precisely because of this balance and sense of the institutions, his name has been evoked several times as possible President of the Republic. Joined the Christian Democracy since 1950, he had been a member of the Christian Associations of Italian Workers (ACLI), trade unionist of the Italian Confederation of Workers Trade Unions (CISL), disciple of Giulio Pastore; he had held within that organization the role of vice secretary and finally of national secretary from 1985 to 1991. His important battles as a trade unionist aimed at achieving an improvement in the conditions of the workers were followed by political commitment as a Member, Minister of Labour, European Parliamentarian and Senator. Marini had brought in the political activity the same passion that had characterized him as trade unionist, in particular his great organizational experience, aware that an efficient and well organized structure would guarantee better results. Even in his inaugural speech as President of the Senate in 2006, he stressed the importance of a good organization to best exercise the prestigious role conferred on him. In his vision, democratic institutions would be even stronger and stronger if they were able to guarantee greater political participation, facing every economic and social challenge with efficiency and maturity. In his first speech as President of the Senate he said: the strength of a mature democracy lies also in knowing how to converge together on the best decisions and choices for our country, insisting on the sense of responsibility that should have animated all political actors, both by majority and opposition. It must also be acknowledged that during his Presidency he started a work of rationalization and reduction of the costs of the Senate, with a careful and pragmatic activity on the budget. His Europeanist thinking, both as a leader of one of the forces of the European People's Party and as a European Parliamentarian, has manifested itself in the belief that being European means guaranteeing common protection and harmonious growth of rights. According to Marini, the European Union would have had a future if it had put solidarity at the heart of its project: a Europe composed of different peoples but united by common values to ensure safeguards for the weakest. Precisely for this reason he has always opposed the precariousness of work and the social models without rules. His was a rigorous witness to those who put the principles of the Church's social doctrine at the service of growth, cohesion and equity. The social battles that have characterized his life testify to the commitment of a man constantly stretched out in favour of the peoples and suburbs of the country, sensitive to the reasons of the weakest and freedom. To the memory of Franco Marini and his family, therefore, I and the Europeanist-MAIE-CD Group feel moved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u47	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, remembering Franco Marini for me is an exercise that causes pain, but also a feeling of gratitude for having shared with him unrepeatable political moments, but, above all, for having learned a lot from a man who, under an apparent hardness, was capable of profound humanity and absolute loyalty: two qualities that are not always met in politics, especially today. I do not want to dwell on the many personal memories that bind me to Franco Marini, nor remember him for the decisive political role as protagonist in the events of recent years, in particular for what he has personally done to give birth to the experience of Olive. He, a party man, leader of a party traditionally structured, able to see and grasp the novelty of a political experience that would change the world of parties, their history, their perspective. I want to remember him here today for a dimension that, often, is neglected, because it is considered lateral with respect to its daily activity. But I want to do so, because it was the defining point of his work as a trade unionist, Minister, political leader and President of the Senate. Franco Marini made a book and wrote an essay. The book was entitled "The Well-being in Work and Training Contexts." His main thesis was the conception of work as an experience contributing to the definition of the identity of individuals. Work defines the identity of man. Franco Marini emphasized the human reality, even psychological, of the worker, regardless of the contexts in which he carries out his activity. Man and work; work and man: an inseparable combination. This was Franco Marini. For this inseparable unity between man and work he has always fought, fought and many times won. And with him he won our community, which grew socially, economically, culturally, humanly. Hello, Franco. Your intelligence, your irony, your generosity, your loyalty, your smile will be missed. And we will miss, as Minister Franceschini will well remember, your warning in the face of the hardest difficulties, which still had to be resolved. You told us, guys, we'll see, because you never have to give up. Rest in peace, Franco. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u48	He asked the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u49	Mr President, I agree with what you have said here to remind President Marini. This debate is very interesting, very authentic and very thorough, but for me it is difficult to distinguish the institutional role, what Franco Marini represented in Italian history and in the history of the Republic, from the personal bond, as a teacher and, allow me, and as a political father. I met him when he had already completed his path, very important, in the union and in the government. He was about to become secretary of the People's Party and he called me and Enrico Letta as his own, then young, deputy secretaries. He was in a small room in the square of Jesus. He had chosen the most hidden and secondary room: yet he had already determined the fate of that party and the destiny of Italian bipolarism, choosing vigorously. Without him it would not have been possible, at the cost of a painful split, the road of the Olive and the center-left. For this reason he can certainly be counted as one of the fathers of Italian bipolarism. He followed the path of the Margaret, of the birth of the Democratic Party, always protagonist, always able to understand what was the way to go, always annoyed by the spotlight, but always decisive in political choices, very often in a silent way, in an apparently secondary way, but always central. Such a lesson of silence, which accompanied him on many occasions, even when he was the protagonist, perhaps came from an episode, which he told me so many times, which concerned his grandfather. The grandfather, emigrated to the United States, when he returned as an elder to his country in Abruzzo, spent the last years of his life sitting on a bench and at the beginning greeted the people who passed him and said "Hello Marini" to him; then he stopped greeting them, always leaning on his staff, thinking and reflecting on his years of emigrate to America. That lesson of simplicity has been brought along for the rest of his life. He was an authentic man, a hard man, able also to intimidate opponents in debates, in dialectical confrontation. Marini roared, sometimes answered with a roar, but inside he was a good man and of pure soul. He would have been a great President of the Republic - in the debate they were remembered those days - if that vote of 2013 had gone differently, and instead he was overwhelmed by the drunken wind of a superficial newness. To me, who was the most attached to him, it was necessary, at the request of the secretary of the PD, to go after that first vote in his office to ask him to give up continuing. Franco answered me with a roar, but immediately understood the political picture and gave up what would have been the most important opportunity of his life and would have been important also for the country, because he would have been a popular president like Pertini, a Catholic-democratic Pertini with the pipe, with the alpine hat, able to talk to the people, to be with the people even in the most important palace of the Republic. He was a fighter, and as a fighter he also won the Covid, because Franco came out of the Covid and then unfortunately in the phase of rehabilitation he was hit by an infection that finally bent him. He was a great fighter, a man who taught us, with his life lesson, how it can be the relationship with opponents in the union, in politics; how hard confrontation must never stop the ability to respect, understand and talk. I believe that we have a great need for this lesson in the current political moment in which we are called, by adversaries who will remain adversaries, to govern the country together. If there is no respect, understanding, humility and spirit of service, it is difficult to succeed in these commitments. In Marini's lesson, therefore, humility and a spirit of service always occur. In the burning chamber he had an alpine hat on his chest. Among the many important roles, that was his first identity, his greatest pride: the mountain, San Pio delle Camere, Abruzzo, the songs at dinners, the walks with real friends. His life lesson will continue to show us the way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u50	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Colleagues, I have learned at this moment that unfortunately Antonio Cattricalà has failed, who has played very important institutional roles as lawyer, magistrate of the Council of State, executive and also Italian politician. I'd like to observe for him a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]] On behalf of my staff and of the entire Assembly, I express my condolences and closeness to the family of Antonio Cattricalà. Unfortunately, this is not a beautiful day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u51	Senators, it is with great emotion that I would like to invite the Assembly to draw close to the pain of family members, colleagues and friends of Ambassador Luca Attanasio and the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci, two brilliant, courageous young Italians who fell in a brutal ambush in Goma, Congo, while traveling on a convoy of the United Nations World Food Programme, in which the young driver also lost his life. Luca Attanasio was forty-three years old, was father of three little girls and had been confirmed Ambassador Extraordinary Plenipotentiary to the Democratic Republic of Congo only two years ago. In addition to his commitment to diplomacy, he made daily efforts - together with his wife Zakia Seddiki - to bring humanitarian aid to those regions, especially to women and children. Vittorio Iacovacci would turn thirty-one in March. Military of the Carabinieri Army, he was in Congo with the task of assisting and protecting Ambassador Attanasio. Both had taken on a difficult and burdensome mission and represented Italy in a complex and particularly delicate geopolitical context; an assignment they were carrying out with commitment and determination, without ever going back a step, even in the awareness of the risks and dangers to which they were forced to expose each day. Bringing security, solidarity and support to oppressed peoples is not only a humanitarian or justice issue: it is a work of civilization founded on the defence always and in any case of the inviolable rights and dignity of every human being, a commitment that has always distinguished Italy, the action of our diplomacy and the many sacrifices of our military. Both were authentic bearers of peace and hope and, as such, we have a duty to remember them and honor their sacrifice, even by working to make full light on the matrix of the attack as soon as possible, identifying the authors. In the face of so much pain, the response of the international community must be that of a renewed commitment to counter all forms of violence and abuse. In memory of Ambassador Luca Attanasio and the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci, Italian heroes and peacemakers, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u52	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the tragic events in Congo on 22 February. I call Mr Di Maio, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u53	Mr President, Senators and Senators, first of all I would like to renew all your and our closeness to the families of Ambassador Luca Attanasio, the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci and Mustapha Milambo. It was heartbreaking, last night, to welcome, alongside the President of the Council Dragons and family members, the bodies of our two fellow countrymen, victims of the vile ambush, who cut off their young lives and upset those of their loved ones; a tragic return home, which fills us with anguish. In our hearts, at the same time, they inhabit a stunned pain and deep pride for these men who have sacrificed their existence at the service of Italy, peace and assistance to the weakest. Luca was a young ambassador on the ground, a great knower of the country, in which he worked since 2017, a brilliant and passionate official. "Being ambassador is a mission, albeit risky, but we must set an example: Luke had said so, on the occasion of the Nassiriya prize, which was conferred on him in October. He was in love with his trade, Africa and his family. He left three beautiful little girls and his wife Zakia, with whom he also shared the commitment of volunteering. Vittorio, on the other hand, wanted to form a family soon, at the imminent end of his mission in Congo, where, trained by our best special departments, he had been sent just to protect the Head of Mission. Their sacrifice illuminates the lives of the many diplomats and military who silently carry out their duty to defend Italy and our values, in countries far away and at risk. It is a sacrifice that the country will honour with state funerals. We must all honor these heroes of ours, clinging to their families and their memory, as a national community and as institutions, spare no effort to reach the truth about their tragic end and strengthen the commitment and attention to Africa, a continent crucial to the world's balance. To explain the meaning of Luca Attanasio's work, I would like to quote his words: In Africa you can challenge real problems, which sometimes you can solve. Our role is to be close to the Italians who live sharing the destiny of Congolese people. Luke never failed to translate his words into practice. With the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci was near the city of Goma, at the invitation of the United Nations World Food Programme, to visit the humanitarian intervention camps, in particular a food program for schools, in North and South Kivu, and to carry out a consular mission in the cities of Goma and Bukavu, where there are about a hundred compatriots. What has happened has once again highlighted the security issue of some countries in which our diplomats and our military operate. Farnesina, at the internal level, in the context of constant risk prevention and mitigation activities for diplomatic-consular personnel abroad, ranks the Democratic Republic of Congo in the third risk group out of four. This indicates a high level of threat. The security of the embassy in Kinshasa is ensured by two carabinieri on a four-year mission, to which are added two carabinieri on a mission of protection, who alternate regularly for periods of one hundred and eighty days. The Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci was in this second type and for this reason he had accompanied the ambassador on the UN mission to Goma and had with him the gun of ordinance. Unlike some press reports, I would like to make it clear that the embassy is equipped with two armored cars, with which precisely the ambassador moved to the city and for missions in the country, always accompanied by at least one policeman to protect. I would also like to make it clear that Kinshasa and Goma are about 2,500 kilometers away. The Ambassador and the Carabiniere have, therefore, entrusted themselves to the United Nations protocol, which took them in charge from Kinshasa, on an aircraft of the UN Monusco mission, for the journey to Goma. I would point out that, as Head of Mission, Ambassador Luca Attanasio had full power to decide how and where to move within the country. The mission was carried out at the invitation of the United Nations. Therefore, the journey by car was also carried out within the organizational framework set up by the World Food Programme. For this reason, I immediately asked the WFP in Rome and the United Nations, directly interested in Secretary-General Guterres, to provide a detailed report on the attack on the World Food Programme convoy. The United Nations Deputy Secretary-General for Peace Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix, announced on Monday the launch of an investigation by Monusco, the UN Mission in Democratic Republic of Congo. I also asked the Secretary-General of the Farnesina, Belloni, to stay in constant contact with the executive director of the World Food Programme to get news of the dynamics of what happened. We expect from the World Food Programme an in-depth relationship with any useful element relating to the visit programme and the security measures taken to safeguard the delegation. We formally asked the WFP and the UN for an inquiry to clarify what happened, the reasons behind the safety device used, and who was responsible for those decisions. We have also explained that we expect clear and comprehensive answers in the shortest possible time. I then had a telephone conversation with the Congolese Foreign Minister on the same day as it happened. I immediately stressed the need to shed full light on the dynamics and responsibilities of the attack. The authorities of Kinshasa - also urged by Guterres to investigate quickly and bring those responsible to justice - have ensured full cooperation with the Italian judiciary. The Congolese President, who paid a visit to our ambassador's widow, condemned the attack with the greatest firmness. On the dynamics of the ambush are being investigated also by the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome. A team of our ROS Carabinieri, under proxy of the prosecutor, has already gone to Goma for a first investigative mission. I understand more will follow. Let's face it: on the morning of February 22nd, between 10 am and 11 am local, the convoy of the World Food Programme on which the ambassador and the policeman were traveling was attacked by men with light weapons, probably near Kibumba, about 25 km from Goma, in North Kivu Governorate, while walking the N2 road in the direction of Rutshuru. As said, the ambassador had arrived in Goma on Friday 19th with an aircraft of the UN Monusco mission. According to the first reconstructions, which must be screened by the investigators, the first car of the WFP convoy, on which the victims traveled, would have been the subject of gunshots. In addition to the Ambassador and the Carabiniere, five members of the WFP were also part of the convoy, including the Deputy Director for Congo, Rocco Leone. The convoy was attacked at 10.15 a.m. at the village of Kanya Mahoro, near a locality called "Three Antennas." The group, made up of six elements, would have forced the vehicles to stop by putting obstacles on the road and firing some shots of light weapons in the air. This hypothesis could also be corroborated by the content of a video in which you can see the initial phases of the event with the shots of the attackers and people throwing motorcycles and bicycles to the ground with all the load to get away. The Governor of North Kivu has confirmed that the six attackers, after firing shots in the air and blocking the convoy, have ordered the passengers to get off the vehicles. The sound of the shots alerted the soldiers of the Congolese armed forces and the rangers of the Virunga park who, being less than a kilometer away, headed towards the site of the event. The governor added that, in order to force their victims to leave the road and enter the bush, the attackers killed the driver of the WFP. According to the first reconstructions, the assailants would then lead the rest of the members into the forest. Not far from the site of the event was a ranger patrol of the Congolese Institute for the Conservation of Nature, stationed at the nearby Virunga National Park, and an army unit, which would try to recover the convoy members. In the stages immediately following, as stated by the Ministry of the Congolese Interior, at the moment when the ranger patrol ordered the attackers to lower their weapons or simply showed the weapons to follow, the latter would open fire against the military of the Carabinieri weapon, killing him, and against the Italian ambassador, seriously injuring him. The ranger patrol and the army unit would then evacuate the Italian ambassador to the Monusco Hospital in Goma, where death would occur due to the wounds reported in the attack. In this regard, it is further specified that the convoy manager would negotiate with the attackers to get away from the area and bring the wounded to a safe area. Here the information collected so far stops and will of course have to be verified by ongoing investigations by the Public Prosecutor of Rome. The summits of the Farnesina, in particular the Crisis Unit, are in constant contact with the family of Ambassador Luca Attanasio and, through the command of the Carabinieri of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and international collaboration - MAECI, with the family of the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci, to provide all assistance. The commitment of the Farnesina allowed the return of the psalms quickly, as assured me by the Congolese Minister. The results of the autopsy, carried out at the Gemini, will be sent to the D.A. The barbaric ambush against our fellow countrymen has generated solidarity and deep emotion in our international partners. As soon as I heard the news of the attack, I left the Foreign Affairs Council to return to Italy. In Brussels I received the unanimous solidarity of my European colleagues and the High Representative, Mr Borrell. I received a phone call from the American Secretary of State, Mr Blinken, who expressed my condolences to the American administration for the loss of an ambassador who - he said - worked for democracy, human rights and peace. The ambush of Luca Attanasio and Vittorio Iacovacci took place in a region with a very fragile security environment, in a country that embodies some of the contradictions of the African continent: enormous natural riches, poverty and violence. Congo has the second copper reserve in the world, a quarter of the world's gold, a third of the diamonds, 80 percent cobalt and coltan, more and more sought after minerals for cell phones and batteries; but it is also one of the taillights for human development index: it is estimated that there are more than 13 out of 99 million Congolese in a situation of serious precariousness. The heavy legacy of the autocracies of Mobutu and its successors weighs on the future of a country at the center of what, at the turn of the millennium, was called the African World War, with a terrible budget of millions of deaths. It is an ancient story of violence and instability. Already sixty years ago Italy paid a very heavy tribute to the search for peace, with the heinous slaughter of Kindu, in which 13 of our aviators were slaughtered in the United Nations mission. [[Applause]] The Democratic Republic of the Congo has in recent decades been the beneficiary of targeted projects of our cooperation, especially in the fields of agriculture, transport, health and water supply. At present there is an initiative on the humanitarian emergency channel launched last November in North Kivu, focusing on maternal-child health, hygiene and the protection of the most vulnerable. We have also recently authorised a financial contribution to the World Food Programme for the implementation of a project to reduce the impact of food insecurity. I remember, then, that in 2019 the Italian Cooperation had allocated some important emergency contributions for activities of contrast to the spread of the Ebola virus always in the north-eastern regions of the Country. This is a long-standing commitment from Italy, also supported by a large number of missionaries and the activities of numerous civil society organisations. In the eastern region of the country there are 120 armed groups, proliferation of paramilitary authorities and rebel forces, who have been fighting for decades to control the territory, feeding an informal economy of war that lives from the illegal exploitation of mineral resources, smuggling and extortion. The current situation of conflict stems from the ethnic war between Hutu and Tutsi, which reached the apex of horror in the notorious 1994 genocide in Rwanda, when the Hutu operated an ethnic cleansing against the Tutsi. In the region east of the Democratic Republic of Congo the impact of that conflict and the subsequent revenge of the Tutsi is still wounded open. In that part of the Congo, in particular, the democratic forces for the liberation of Rwanda, which have lost their original military power, but are reorganizing themselves thanks to the alliance with other militias. Always of Hutu origin is the so-called collective of movements for change, while in order to defend the local formations such as the Mai-Mai, militias of so-called patriots. The repeated incursions of the allied democratic forces, the main rebel group of Ugandan origin, have caused massive population movements. According to the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), over the last two years there have been a total of 5 million internally displaced persons in the country, 91 percent of whom are women and children, almost 2 million of whom are only in the province of North-Kivu. Congo is the scene of the largest displaced people crisis ever recorded in Africa. In Kivu the clashes between the rebels and the security forces continue. In 2020 UNHCR partners recorded a record number of 2,000 civilians killed in the three eastern provinces. Most of these attacks were attributed to armed groups. The Italian commitment, together with that of the European partners and the United Nations, is to support the process of peace in the eastern part of the country, on which the current Congolese President in office since January 2019 is investing in the first place. The Head of State has put the problem of security in the East to the attention of the entire region, involving all the countries potentially concerned around the regional coalition project that can carry out joint actions against the rebel forces. This is the context in which Ambassador Luca Attanasio worked and our staff operates. In Kinshasa, as in many other difficult locations around the world, Italy is present and plays its part and Ambassador Luca Attanasio interpreted this spirit to the best. To our fallen we owe, first of all, the truth, but the best way to honor the memory of Luca Attanasio and the carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci is also to continue to strengthen our political attention towards that continent in which Luca strongly believed with passion and dedication. To Africa he had dedicated much of his diplomatic career and also his personal commitment in support of the weakest with the voluntary activities promoted through the NGO MAMA Sofia, founded in Kinshasa by his wife Zakia. A policy that puts Africa at the centre of Italian, European and international diplomatic attention is the commitment in which Luca believed and in which we believe. [[Applause]] That continent is crossed by endemic conflicts and needs an increased international commitment to achieving peace and lasting stabilisation, but it is also a young continent full of opportunities and talents, united with us by mutual interests and a common search for development that takes account of the dimension of social inclusion. It is a new grammar in the relationship Europe-Africa that we have promoted in recent months with the presentation of the partnership with Africa, a strategic document on the continent with a global approach, from political relations to the security plan, from economic-commercial relations to scientific and cultural cooperation, up to the strengthening of relations between peoples and civil societies. In fact, more than elsewhere, the same interconnections between sustainability, peace, the fight against terrorism, crime, illicit trafficking, development, progress, flows of migrants, refugees and climate change emerge on the African continent. Even by strengthening this approach and investing more and more in our human capital and in our network abroad, taking into account the special geopolitical position of Italy at the center of the Mediterranean and the traditional Italian propensity to dialogue with Africa, we will be able to honour the dramatic testimony of Luke and Vittorio, a political and human heritage for the benefit of future generations of Europe and Africa. In conclusion, I would like to thank the staff of Farnesina and all the other administrations of the State that have been close to us at this sad moment, who have helped us and are helping us in these hours to assist the family and organize the return of the bodies and family of Luca Attanasio. [[Applause]] And I would like once again, with all of you and with all of the Diplomatic Corps and all of the Carabinieri's Arms, to grieve at the pain of the family members of Luke and Vittorio, to whom I renew my closeness and that of the whole Government. [[Applause. The Assembly stands.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u54	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u55	Mr President, Government, colleagues, Minister, I very much appreciate your speech, which is complete in all its aspects. At this moment I wish to bring the deep condolences of the Forza Italia Group to the family of Ambassador Luca Attanasio, the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci and also the driver in service in Kinshasa. [[Applause]] This is a mourning of the people. The killing of an ambassador, Minister, is a matter of absolute gravity. Things once would have happened today unimaginable. We cannot react only with diplomatic notes. I am convinced - and your report makes it clear - that we have a political vision for Africa today. I have wonderful and unobstructed memories of that continent, which has a climate variety and an extraordinary force, to which Italy must turn, together with Europe, for a mission purpose. In Africa we have a billion 314 million inhabitants (they have quadrupled in half a century) and we have 413 million people living in absolute poverty. It is a continent - as you said - on the one hand extraordinarily interesting, beautiful, wonderful, but at the same time it is extremely at risk. It is an unstable continent, in which we need to act with great attention at the level of international policy. In the Foreign Affairs Committee we had meetings on the Horn of Africa - for example - where life is worth almost nothing. They told of violent killings, shots fired in the head to take away a can of orange juice. The life of a Caucasian man who was to land at the airport of Mogadishu has a survival of no more than ten minutes, once he left the airport: it is a situation of great instability. We must pay attention to the words that emerged after the Munich Summit, in which Macron gave an intelligent view of the role of European and even national politics, of great attention to Africa. We therefore need to enlighten those lands with intelligence, with our policy, and above all we have a duty to be carriers of peace missions. Those men were not there to trade or pursue gold or diamonds; they were there for an extremely important mission, to bring peace and above all prosperity to that continent. [[Applause]] Macron has pointed out that Africa is a neighbouring continent, to which we must devote special attention as a Europe. Above all, we must realize - it is an invitation from President Macron - how important it is to gather the appeal that comes from some African countries of the western area haunted by jihadist militias that have created and are creating havoc. I would like to remind you that on 14 February, right in Congo, there was an assault at a school that caused 14 deaths. We therefore need to look at that continent with renewed attention and Europe must acquire strategic autonomy, becoming superpower, just as the United States, Russia and China are. Only if we can become superpower will we be able to safeguard the interests of Europe, but also of Africa, with a genuine intervention embedded in an absolutely positive vision. So: strategic autonomy, Europe superpower and above all the will to bring peace back to those lands. I just want to remember... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u56	Senator Aimi, you can deliver your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u57	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation for his detailed information. I have to be honest: I struggle to intervene because Luca Attanasio came from a municipality of my Province and, beyond any rhetoric, he was truly loved as a person, before even as a professional, from the whole community. In the last two days some friends of the Municipality of Limbiate have confirmed to me how this boy, because so he was known, was loved and constituted the pride of all his community. When he was very young he had managed to embark on a diplomatic career, which he carried out with professionalism and great competence. On the basis of this, I would ask you, Minister, in the performance of your duties, to continue with the work of clarification that will certainly have to be carried out also by the local and Italian judicial bodies. We must ascertain the truth to Luca Attanasio and Vittorio Iacovacci and to the families of these two great heroes. Minister, I ask you to keep up to date with this activity, through the relevant committees and bodies, because I want to believe that the sacrifice of these two great people has not been in vain. You rightly referred to Ambassador Attanasio's work in the field of international cooperation and aid programmes for the local population. If we do not want his sacrifice to be in vain, it is important that the work of his Ministry - I remind you that it is also of international cooperation - is encouraged, because we have a duty to help those who are more in difficulty than we are. This is what Ambassador Attanasio would have wanted and what he has always done and carried forward in life. I was told that he was always accompanied by young people in the oratory of the local community. I am having a little trouble, Minister, forgive me, because when I listened to the words of some of your fellow citizens, I was really excited. I believe that we must all realise that this must not simply be an information or a commemoration. Today we must honor those who gave their lives for a job and a mission in which they have firmly believed. Luca Attanasio fell in love with Africa, created a family and carried on an important job for all of us. Let us not forget these sacrifices, nor this important work that he was carrying out. The photos that are circulating are heartbreaking: only for that, in my opinion, do we all have to bear a burden, which makes it necessary to fight in those territories so that the economic interests of multinationals or other powers are put aside and we go there simply to help and grow a population that has the right to do so in complete independence, but also according to the rules of good civil life, which you rightly mentioned in your speech. I invite you to keep us up to date on the continuation of the investigations and all that will follow in relation to its function. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Di Maio for the information he has made in the Senate today. We want to show our personal condolences in the face of the dramatic and barbaric killing of Ambassador Luca Attanasio, Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci and their driver. It is useful to remember, as you did, that they were on a peace mission in one of the African territories richest in minerals, coltans, gold, diamonds, uranium and rare metals. This makes that area a dangerous reality, in which adventurers and tribes fighting for centuries do not spare their lives in order to be able to control those mines and those resources. Minister, very rightly you have raised a fundamental question: the attention that we must have, which Europe must have, on politics for Africa. We must also ask ourselves, given the dramatic nature of the facts, whether the current UN mission in that country has managed to stabilize anything. It is a mission that costs a billion dollars a year and that has made part of Congo one of the most dangerous and insidious areas in the world, due to the presence of armed gangs, various forms of terrorism and tribal hatreds that never find a truce. In 2017, 40% of the population of the Congo spoke out against this of the UN as a corrupt mission. The percentage rises to 50 percent right in North Kivu. We cannot ignore how the peoples against whom we are carrying out a mission of peace, in order to stabilize and allow that land to get out of the dramatic situation in which it finds itself, have as their sole result tragedies: today we were unfortunately affected by the death of the ambassador and the policeman, but in those territories there is no day when a very heavy human tragedy is not consumed. The problem is terribly serious. It is a European Union policy issue for Africa and it understands the role, initiative and protagonism that Italy must have. We owe this to Ambassador Attanasio, who tragically demonstrated, with the sacrifice of his own life, the commitment that, through him, our country wanted to make to that population and to those lands. I believe that today this must be the commitment that all of us must see together so that in that part of Africa the situation can change and because truly ours is a mission of peace, which helps to stabilize a reality that otherwise, dramatically, will hold us for a long time too many and unacceptable deaths. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u61	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u62	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, his professional commitment as a mission and carried out in a spirit of service was shared by Ambassador Luca Attanasio and the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci, two servants of the State who were in the Congo to serve Italy in a country that has a small but valiant presence of Italians. Their convoy did not have adequate escort and the Italian Government rightly asks for more detailed explanations and information about the United Nations programme on why there was no adequate protection, which would almost certainly have saved their lives and that of their driver. This is in a country where the election result of the 2017 elections has been contested by all international observers, who have in fact denounced heavy electoral frauds, and who has lived for years a long series of national and local conflicts, clashes and insurrections for the grabbing of its enormous natural riches, without its inhabitants seeing a real improvement of their living conditions. A little more than 1,200 Italian compatriots live in the central-western Republic of Africa. Many of them are missionaries, doctors present in the country to provide humanitarian aid to the population. Ambassador Luca Attanasio also described his work as a mission, intended as a spirit of service for others in a country that, as he liked to repeat, thirsts for peace. "My personal commitment is very little compared to what these fellow countrymen do," he said, referring to the humanitarian activity of the Italians in Congo. He was a man who loved to be close to people and this is how in these hours of pain he is remembered by our fellow countrymen in Switzerland, who had the opportunity to know him and appreciate him during the years in which he served as commercial secretary of the embassy in Basel, where I personally had the pleasure of meeting him and appreciating his activity in support of the Italians resident there. He was always present at the meetings of the local representative bodies of our communities, where he had the opportunity to stand out for his humanity and for his sincere desire to remain with and among our people. Christian education was the basis of his life, as the archbishop of Milan, Mario Enrico Delpini, recalled with emotional words, and as the missionaries and fellow countrymen who had known him in recent years in Congo for his ability to be present in local life and to offer support to the many humanitarian aid initiatives. The ambassador's mission is sometimes dangerous, but we have a duty to set an example, he supported a few months ago, when, together with his wife, she too engaged in humanitarian aid, for her commitment to the protection of peace among peoples and for having contributed to the realization of important humanitarian projects, she received the International Nassiriya Peace Prize, dedicated to the memory of the massacre in which 18 Italians committed to the mission of peace in the Iraqi city south east of Baghdad lost their lives on 12 November 2003. Let us remember that 12 of those Italian fallen in Nassiriya were carabinieri like the young Vittorio Iacovacci. Once again, therefore, the Arm of the Carabinieri pays a very dear price for the commitment and sacrifice of his valiant men on a mission of peace for Italy in the world. Joining us therefore to the deep pain of the families of Luca Attanasio and Vittorio Iacovacci, we of the Europeanist Group today we mourn two great Italians who, at the cost of their lives, have honored our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u63	Senator Garavini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep condolence and participation that as Italy Viva we join in the pain of the family, friends and colleagues of Ambassador Luca Attanasio and the policeman Vittorio Iacovacci, as well as their driver Mustapha Milambo, three young men killed last Monday while they were dedicated to their work. They were attacked in the course of a brutal ambush, probably for the purpose of kidnapping, while they were aboard a UN car in a region of the Democratic Republic of Congo that for years has been the scene of violent clashes between dozens of militias, fighting for control of the territory and trying to capture its countless natural resources. The convoy consisted of two machines from the World Food Programme and was on his way to a location where our diplomat was supposed to visit one of the schools concerned with food distribution by the United Nations Agency. It is a good thing, Minister, that Farnesina immediately requested a detailed report from the United Nations. We hope that it will be available soon and that it will be able to clarify the contours of the affair, because we do not understand why the UN, present in the area with a large peacekeeping operation that involves the presence of over 17,000 soldiers, has not been able to provide protection to our ambassador and his escort during the travels in such a notoriously difficult and dangerous region. It remains also to be clarified who has operated in the commando because, while the government of Kinshasa points the finger against the democratic forces of liberation of Rwanda, the Hutu ethnic rebels, known for the genocide of 1994, deny to be responsible for the killing of our compatriots and their Congolese driver. This attitude of mutual guilt is an example of how nebulous and twisted some of the realities of the African continent are, one more reason for demanding clarity. We owe it to the families of the victims, but also to all our women and men engaged in the most difficult territories in the world. This information also wants to be an opportunity to express deep closeness and gratitude to the military of our contingents engaged in international missions, as well as to our entire diplomatic corps, to the officials of the Farnesina around the world and to the many volunteers and employees of the humanitarian organizations operating in Africa and in other parts. Dramatic moments like this remind us, however, how precious, delicate and also very dangerous their work at the service of our country is. There are no words to express the dismay, the anguish and the sense of emptiness caused by this absurd and tragic attack, which breaks the life of one of the youngest and capable Italian ambassadors, father of three beautiful girls, and a young policeman about to get married in a few weeks. We share in this House the sadness, the sadness and the deep sense of impotence. Imagine the mood of the young wife, relatives, friends and colleagues, accustomed to the professionalism of Luca Attanasio, his sunny smile and the dedication with which he exercised his work. At a time when we are grieving for the disappearance of our compatriots, however, we must also have intellectual honesty, as legislators, to reaffirm how necessary it is to secure more quickly all our personnel engaged in the world, in the peace contingents abroad, in consular or embassy offices or precisely in non-governmental organizations. It is necessary to allocate adequate resources for the security of the seats, in order to equip our officials with personal security aids capable of protecting their safety and for the refinancing of international missions with the necessary equipment, in the right time, without risking to leave for months without protecting the personnel engaged in endangered territories: in fact, these are women and men who, where necessary, must also be put in conditions to act against armed militias or any terrorist forces, in order to defend themselves and to demonstrate that there is no impunity for those who commit crimes. Last Monday's vile attack shows how important international efforts to bring peace and security to the world are. Italy can be proud of its contribution in this regard. At this stage, however, made even more complicated by the effects of the pandemic by Covid-19, the effort for stabilisation in a whole series of countries, starting from Africa, both as a country Italy system and as a European Union, must be increased further. We owe it to Ambassador Attanasio, a young diplomat who sacrificed his life to contribute to peace and to devote himself to the needs of the last. Investing in peace and development means investing in security: in the countries directly concerned, but also in us. Above all, Africa is a continent that concerns us very closely, because there are entire areas totally succubus of guerrilla gangs, where the populations are victims of abuse and violence, just like in North Kivu, where our two fellow countrymen perished. It is a territory where various militias are scattered and there is an explosive situation, very widespread in many areas, where poverty, malnutrition, labour exploitation, lack of education, violence and environmental pollution are intertwined. Africa, this Africa, is on the threshold of our home. Its instability is also our problem. The growing waves of migration in recent years are often the result of the flight of thousands of people from inhuman living conditions, characterized by conflicts, often generated by the attempted supply of primary goods, or of people forced to migrate due to climate change causing droughts or famines. The situation in Congo, on which the dramatic killing of Ambassador Attanasio and his bodyguard Iacovacci helps to shed light, makes clear in all its gravity how urgent and necessary it is to intervene better and more in Africa. Further investment - Italian, European and international - is needed to promote development, create job opportunities and bring education, protection of rights, respect for the environment, well-being and dignity. The development cooperation projects on the ground and our quotas abroad, in close liaison with our diplomatic representations, the European Union, NATO and the United Nations, work in this direction. We are grateful to them and also to the awareness that we need a strengthening of the projects put in place in terms of development cooperation, at the same time with peace forces supporting the stabilisation processes. In this context, it is good that the decree of international missions approved last year renewed Italy's strategic interest also in sub-Saharan Africa, in the broader framework of a system of bilateral and multilateral relations on which the military and civil engagement of our country is based. In the same way, participation in the new mission called Takuba is also positive. It is important to stress and not take for granted the value of those who are willing to put their lives at risk to take part in the processes of peace and development in the most dangerous theatres. The words used by Ambassador Attanasio on the occasion of the bestowal ceremony, to him and his wife, of the international prize Nassiriya for Peace, only a year ago, said: The Ambassador's mission is sometimes dangerous, but we have a duty to set an example. These are words that enter the heart of all of us and give us the meaning of the commitment of those who, precisely, are willing to put their lives at the service of international development and peace. Luca Attanasio and Vittorio Iacovacci were both faithful and generous servants of the State, both in the front line in difficult contexts. To their memory and to the pain of families today go our deep respect and our most heartfelt closeness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u66	Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group supports the words of condolence expressed here by the President of the Senate on behalf of the Senate of the Republic and the words expressed here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Government towards the families of the victims, their loved ones and their communities of origin. Victims are shining examples of state servants. It certainly is Luca Attanasio, a young and brilliant ambassador, and so is Vittorio Iacovacci, expression, once again, of the Weapon benemerita, which is among the main hits in this as in other episodes abroad. We also associate ourselves, of course, with the mourning for the disappearance of the other servant of the State, Mustapha Milambo, who, working for the Italian State, was also, of course, a servant, as well as our collaborator. Luca Attanasio played at best, like few others, the role of Italian ambassador, with that great humanity that distinguishes our community in every assembly. I think the best way to remember it for what it was is with the words of Father Salvatore a few hours ago: A ray of sun is gone. In that sentence there is all the purely Italian humanity that Luca Attanasio, as ambassador, brought into every assembly. The memory goes of course also to Vittorio Iacovacci, young and brilliant Carabiniere who wanted to crown his dream of love, in a few days, with a marriage that had been postponed precisely for the rules of the Covid. He too, because of the way he performed his service, is a shining example of the Carabinieri's weapon, which all envy us precisely for the great humanity he expresses in that territory in which he operates. This is the memory that we owe all of us to them, but above all we have the responsibility not so much to seek guilty for what happened, but to identify faults, if there have been, that can be filled, so that these episodes do not happen again. In order to identify those flaws, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was right first of all to recall the responsibilities of the United Nations and the United Nations Food Programme, which evidently underestimated the risk that our ambassador and our representation would run at that time. We have a duty to ascertain the responsibilities of the mission and therefore how it was carried out and has worked so far, because it is the most expensive of the United Nations, which has been operating for twenty years without achieving any objective, among other things with accusations in time of waste of money and also with judicial investigations that, for example, have brought to light over 700 rapes carried out by that contingent. We need to pay attention to these UN missions that perpetuate themselves over time, with expenditure of resources, without achieving the goal. There is also a need, however, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to pay attention to our network and the security it offers to our citizens abroad and to our diplomats. We need to do this, because it is undersized: in an important embassy like that of Kinshasa there are few people involved in security and little diplomatic personnel. Yet, it is the embassy of a central country in a geopolitical and historical context that is known to all, for the historical responsibilities of some distant European powers in time, before independence, but also recent: that African world war, which happened twenty-five years ago, calls into question regional powers that are emerging today - obviously Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and the former Zaire, today Congo - but also world powers that contend with that territory, with the responsibilities that historians are ascertaining and that it is up to today's politics to identify. In that world, in that theatre, there is much of the resources that were once considered raw materials of the world, gold and diamonds, but also of the future resources of the world: cobalt, coltan and methane. Not by chance, in that context there are all and operate in different ways with propagations that are making life in Africa even more difficult to those Nations, because from there we go also to the Horn of Africa, where we have forgotten our role, as well as in the war of the Tigray. From there we also go to Mozambique, a country of which we are the first partner, with important energy investments, as in all Africa. We forget that Italy is the third investor country in Africa, the first for energy investments, and it can also be for the digital connections of the Continent, if only we had a digital policy, in this field. Well, it is clear to everyone that the epicenter of that world war in the Democratic Republic of Congo is spreading in territories where the Italian presence is even more significant and we do not have a clear foreign policy within the European Union and with the European Union, if it is true, as it is true, that some European powers act in dissonance with respect to the needs of the African peoples, with a vision - I can say it - excessively selfish, having obviously also emerged their historical involvement in those global wars of which we were talking before. We therefore need a different foreign policy, which is more present in that area and which involves Europe, all the more so because - we must be aware of this - with the new American administration the conflict between the West and China, if you want, in different forms, it has been fought and will be fought more and more in that land. We must be aware, as Europeans and as Italians, of the historical, political and economic responsibilities that we certainly have. Minister for Foreign Affairs, we want you to proceed along the path you said you wanted to take today to ascertain the responsibilities of the United Nations World Food Programme, to review the procedures. It is not enough to ascertain the responsibilities: it is necessary to do so because new procedures within the United Nations programme, as well as within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are identified in order to prevent such incidents from happening again. We need a diplomatic and security presence in that territory far more significant than what we have represented to date. We need an awareness of the ruling class that combines politics in the Horn of Africa and Mozambique with the Central African one. The Italians wonder why we have all these international missions, with an Italian military presence - from Afghanistan to Lebanon - among the main ones in the world, and we cannot protect our diplomats and our citizens where they live. [[Applause]] There are some questions that we as Italians must also ask ourselves, and it is right that we should place ourselves here in front of what has happened to pay homage to two great, splendid figures of Italians who, serving the State, respectively in the Arm of the Carabinieri and in diplomacy, have been able to demonstrate to the world what humanity represents and moves our diplomacy and our men of the State and must move also us, in the awareness of their sacrifice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u67	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u68	Mr President, I too wish to express my condolences and closeness to the families of the victims of the attack involving the policeman Vittorio Iacovacci, the driver Mustapha and Luca Attanasio. I want to do it in particular, as a former colleague, to his wife Zakia, to the three girls, to his mom and dad Salvatore. The whole democratic community is crawling around the families of the victims. The Minister has done well, in his detailed report - and I thank him for that - to ask that responsibility be established as soon as possible. The meeting of the President of the Dragon Council with the Ambassador of the Democratic Republic of Congo is taking place precisely in these minutes. I imagine that he too, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has already done with his approval, asks that the local authorities, accompanied by our own - a first mission of the Special Operational Group (ROS) is already on site - should be able to shed light. It is in fact right to guarantee justice: this certainly does not give back to the families their loved ones, but it is important to let them know that the Government is next to them, is close and builds up the conditions to ascertain the responsibilities, thus giving the idea that there is a state behind us, that recognizes the effort, the commitment and the sacrifice of our compatriots engaged around the world. Congo can also be an opportunity to talk about our commitment to Africa, especially sub-Saharan Africa. It is in fact a country full of contradictions, rich in the subsoil, but poor on the surface. My fellow senators have already mentioned the extraordinary heritage of mineral resources, some fundamental for the industrial policy of the new world, present in that country, which is precisely why it is torn apart by clandestine wars, with tribes and militias colliding, especially in the part of territory in which our compatriots were hit, that is in the North and South Kivu. There is no control of statehood, and borders are permeable, but probably the Congolese Government itself tolerates that they remain so and there are Rwandan and Ugandan militias. This territory risks becoming also the gymnasium for the infiltrations of Islamic terrorism, which sees ISIS making new proselytes also to those latitudes, as it is already doing in West and East Africa, as we unfortunately know, at a high price of blood. However, I think that, from this point of view, we must reflect on that mission and on the role that Italy must play. In the United Nations Security Council, as the Minister is well aware, several times the issue of how to deal with the continuation of a mission that had its own reason in a terrible civil war has been raised. As other colleagues have pointed out, the African World War produced millions of deaths during Mobuto's period and then Kabila's father. That mission had to serve to stabilize and protect civilians, but it is not doing so and indeed, as Senator Urso mentioned earlier, the same mission is being investigated and inspected by the United Nations, for irregularities, sometimes atrocious, committed by the same soldiers, mostly Asian and African. So there is already a reflection, which has led to a limited extension until the end of the year, also beginning to limit the number of people involved, but they are always more than 16,000, that is what, in terms of peacekeeping, we put together in Afghanistan and Iraq. This is a huge effort, which costs more than a billion dollars, with results far below expectations, to use euphemism. From this point of view, perhaps, we need to think about more specific missions and the strategy put in place by Italy and the European Union, for the stability and security of sub-Saharan Africa. The United States will probably come back to this, precisely because of the infiltrations of Islamic terrorism, and I think that, given the statements of the new American administration, with renewed attention to multilateralism, Italy can be included. In particular, I remember that in Congo, although less active than in other realities, there is a community of 1,200 people, made up of entrepreneurs, co-workers, missionaries, nuns and priests, in the remotest corners of that territory. Luca Attanasio represented the ambassador's work in the best way possible. I apologise if I take a personal step, but to try to share a general reflection with you, ladies and gentlemen. I shared with him a similar path, in photocopy: we come from the province of Lombardy, we were born in the same province and we attended the oratory, where we gained our attention, curiosity and respect for different cultures and different stories, when they passed missionaries, nuns and priests to tell about their commitment in Africa. Our openness to the world has matured there, then we studied both at the University "Bocconi" business economy and we did the Institute for International Political Studies; they separated us five years, but I met him at the ISPI, going to teach (I held a course at that time). I was maturing the decision to leave my diplomatic career: they looked at me like a Martian and they didn't understand; I lived the same expectations when at Bocconi, attending both business, in the Lombard territory of the late nineties and early two thousand years, you immediately found work, because there were companies and consulting companies that courted you. Yet, we were both electrocuted by that idea of trying to serve our country, the res publica, passionate about foreign and international politics, in love with the idea and curiosity of a world that mixes and contaminates itself, with people who come from different stories and find the possibility to make a common path. It's what has always passionate me and it was the drive that led me to leave a path that I had started and to do the contest in diplomatic career, and it was the drive that had led Luca Attanasio to spend himself and fall in love with this career, putting himself in play. I think that we must avoid - and I say this to the Minister too - the idea that in normality those who work at Farnesina are bureaucrats and in tragedy he becomes a hero. [[Applause]] One is neither hero nor bureaucrat, but he does his job with his back straight. There are many enthusiasts: Luca was one of those who may not be waiting for more time at the Farnesina - as you know, Minister - to obtain a prestigious seat. He put himself at stake and went to Africa, where he had his passion, of which he knew the risks. I think you're right when you say that the best way to remember this is to strengthen our presence in Africa and change its contents. I have appreciated that in recent years the best enthusiasm and energy have been at stake, sending even younger ambassadors to that area. Important embassies have been opened (I appreciate our presence in Ouagadougou and Niamey, where we were not present before), with targeted missions and collaboration with other European countries. I think that this must be done in the bilateral, as we are already doing, but also at European level, where the Trust Fund for Africa still has resources frankly not adapted to the great challenge. All those countries are experiencing impressive demographic growth: the majority of the population (about 75 percent) is under thirty years of age. If we do not give them a development perspective and invest there as Europe, bringing together first-rate actors such as the United States and China in a common strategy, we risk failing in a territory that then becomes prey to militias and even perhaps the interests of non-state actors in the Western world. Then I conclude with the words of a common friend of Luca, mine and Senator Malpezzi, who shared the first years in Rome in the same apartment with Luca and this morning asked me to do something - and I return it to you, Minister - so that your name should not be forgotten. Here is not a hero, but a passionate person of his work, open to the world. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u70	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is little to add to the intense speech of Senator Alfieri who preceded me, because he used that beautiful word of politics, where the story is intertwined, an analysis is made and an attempt is made to give answers to people's problems. In taking the floor, I would like to express, on behalf of the Mixed Senate Group, our deepest condolences to the Diplomatic Corps and the Carabinieri Army and the pain and closeness to the families of the victims of the attack that took place the other day in Goma, in the Congolese province of North Kivu, where they lost their lives, in an ambush to a UN convoy, the Italian Ambassador Luca Attanasio, the Carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci and the driver Mustapha Milambo. Italy is in mourning, all Italy is in mourning. This is the first time that an ambassador representing our country abroad has been killed. Luca Attanasio is the second European ambassador to be killed while serving in the Democratic Republic of Congo: in January 1993 the French ambassador Philippe Bernard was killed in Kinshasa. We have just heard the information from Minister Di Maio. Minister, you have rightly asked the World Food Programme - WFP and the UN to open a formal inquiry to clarify what has happened. Truth and justice, first of all. We want to know who killed our countrymen and why they were killed. The hypothesis that takes shape in these hours is that of an attempted kidnapping for the purpose of extortion by one of the many armed militias present in the eastern part of the Congo. It is unclear whether the ambassador, the policeman and the driver were killed by the militiamen or by the friendly fire of the Congolese rangers and soldiers who came to the scene of the shooting. We want to know why in that area, the scene of wars, of continuous violations of human rights, of endemic violence by armed militias, authorisation has been granted for the transit of a humanitarian convoy without escort; a convoy of the United Nations World Food Programme. The chronicles speak of 12 assaults recorded in that area in 2020. You, Minister, if I'm not mistaken, spoke of 2,000 civilian casualties, again in 2020. There was the kidnapping of two British tourists, prisoners for nine months in 2018. There are many dark points that will have to clarify the investigators of the ROS of the Carabinieri and the magistrates of the attorney of Rome, to which the investigations are entrusted. These are difficult investigations, also because the political situation in Congo is extremely complicated, with hundreds of armed formations present in the country. More than 120 armed militias have been reported in the eastern part of the Congo. It is a land rich in mineral resources, dominated by warlords and traffickers; a poor and rich country at the same time: rich in diamonds and raw materials, poor for most of the population. This is certainly not the place to discuss the role of the multinationals or the nations of the first world who are contending for control of resources. You yourself mentioned that Congo has the second copper reserve in the world, a quarter of global gold, 80% cobalt and that coltan that is essential for the aerospace industry or for cell phone factories. On the other hand, this is the place to reaffirm - if need be - the importance of international cooperation, of peace missions, the only roads that can draw the future of these areas of the world, where war and hunger die. There are many, too many forgotten wars that tear the world apart and dramatically the events in Congo bring us back to these realities, which with the pandemic we had further removed. We know little about Mustapha Milambo. We know that he was the driver of the World Food Programme; he, Muslim, wrote on social media that Muslims are not terrorists. Posted pictures of barefoot children, alone. He really believed in international cooperation. Vittorio Iacovacci, Carabiniere on his first mission abroad, was due to be married in June. He was a thirty - year - old boy and proud of the uniform he was wearing; a life - filled boy who had thus decided to serve his country, putting his life at risk. Ambassador Luca Attanasio was an extraordinary Italian, an example for all, a diplomatic official who was not content with the official meetings, who lived in the territory in which he was called to represent our country, which made the embassy a home for all Italians, a point of reference for our community in a country so far away. With the non-governmental organization Mama Sofia, founded by his wife Zakia, has helped concretely over 13,800 girls and street children. Africa is too often forgotten and we are only talking about it on tragic occasions like this, but it is also a part of the world with which we will have more and more to do in the future, which we must know and which we cannot just turn our backs on. Ambassador Attanasio, with his example, reminded us that only by building bridges and not walls can we redesign a better world for everyone. We want to know how the other day it could happen that in that area, the scene of war and violence, a convoy traveled without armed escort. There's a beautiful picture depicting the smiling ambassador next to Congolese boys. This is the image that we want to remember and the daily newspaper "The Manifesto," in publishing it yesterday, wrote: "His Africa". From today it is our Africa because the deaths of Luca Attanasio and the carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci and the driver Mustapha Milambo were not vain. Let's stay human. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u71	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u72	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the vile and barbaric death of our ambassador to Congo Luca Attanasio and the carabiniere Vittorio Iacovacci was a tragic and dramatic news that touches not only the family affections of our fallen, martyrs sacrificed on the altar of freedom, peace and international solidarity, but the whole nation. It is a circumstance which, beyond what you, Minister, have told us, will have to be clarified further, but which must at the same time put us before a more general reflection on our relationship with foreign and defence policy. It is precisely in the dramatic circumstances such as this that we are obliged to remind all of us and the public of the strategic and, in many cases, guiding role that Italy, thanks to the valuable work of our diplomatic corps and our military, carries out in many parts of the world to ensure freedom, guarantee peace and respect for rights by helping peoples oppressed by hunger and need. It is a fundamental projection for a country like Italy that needs as the air to live a dimension of profitable and intense international relations, making weight in the global fora, which we very often forget to do, the great sacrifice of men and women and the great commitment of resources that we devote to the many humanitarian missions of peace in which we participate and which represent an added value for the entire international community. This commitment, of which we must be proud, is of a nation that looks to the world of tomorrow, that conceives its national interest, that it is not a swear word, having well aware that the challenges of our time (security, fight against terrorism, contrast to the traffic of all kinds) today, even more than yesterday, reside in extra national areas, but not disconnected from us. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for this reason that we have a duty to give our diplomats and military all our support and to give them the best possible support so that they can carry out, in the best possible way, the heavy task they are called upon to do. All of us, all of us, are confronted daily with the slowness of that oppressive monster we call bureaucracy; but slowness and ideology, in the diplomatic and military field, can cost dearly. I wonder - and I ask you all, in a critical and self-critical spirit - whether it is normal that those who operate in risky areas (which we knew to be Congo, and not since yesterday) and ask for an armored car in August 2020 still do not have it in February 2021, as can be seen from an inquiry by the agency DIRECTE. Of course, Minister, you told us that the UN was responsible for travel, but we must ensure that this does not happen again. We mourn our fallen, but then - I beg you - we act. Another issue - and I conclude - is the role that we must play in those areas. For a long time the Congolese conflict, which counts millions of deaths and displaced persons, has continued in general indifference. The appetites of many global actors on the region and Congo are multiplying. It is a country that has 33 percent of the world's cobalt deposits, 10 percent of the world's copper reserves, one third of the diamond reserves, extensive uranium, zinc, manganese and three quarters of the world's resources of coltan, indispensable for the manufacture of computers and mobile phones. We must prevent, with our diplomatic action, the approach of extractive capitalism, which everything takes and leaves nothing. President Draghi has unequivocally declined the coordinates of our international position. Our Atlantic membership confronts us with the responsibility to work in the contexts in which we are present, so that the displacement of resources and therefore of men is fair and solidarity; we cannot allow, as not acceptable at the human and political level, the affirmation of a strategy such as the Chinese one, which aims to plunder the abundant resources of Africa and Congo, while ensuring the consent of African governments, often authoritarian governments, in international or multinational bodies... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] That is the last sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u73	Senator Craxi, deliver all your work so that it is attached to the Reports of today's sitting. We've made no exceptions for anyone, and I can't make exceptions for you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u74	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u75	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u76	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened is one of the most painful pages for our country. What happened to Luca Attanasio, Italian ambassador to Congo, the policeman of his escort Vittorio Iacovacci and their driver Mustapha, who were killed in a vile attack on a United Nations convoy in the eastern Congo, shocked all of us and Italy as a whole. The barbaric killing of Ambassador Attanasio and Carabiniere Iacovacci upsets us even more for the great example that these two men, although very young, have been able to offer the country with their lives, lost without any justification in the tragic circumstances now known. That of Luca Attanasio, forty-three years old graduate of Bocconi in Milan, represented a career of excellence, rapid and brilliant, which allowed him, starting in 2003, to play roles of strategic importance, such as that of ambassador, giving lustre to the country and to all of us Italians. That of Luke is the positive example of a man of institutions who has been able to combine a career of excellence with the successful project of having a wonderful family, built together with his wife Zakia, from whose union three daughters were born. With his wife he shared his desire to do good to others in difficult territories such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, dealing with children and mothers; a commitment that earned him the recognition of the International Prize for Peace Nassiriya. Vittorio Iacovacci, like me, from the province of Latina and that dream of putting up his family that he could not achieve. He was only thirty years old and should have been married in the next few months; he too, like Luca, could boast a brilliant career as effective at the Battalion Gorizia since 2016, an elite department of the Carabinieri Arm. What has happened grieves us further precisely because the vile ambush in which Luke, Vittorio and Mustapha have lost their lives took place in the framework of an international action of solidarity with the local population, specifically during a mission to control the effectiveness of a food program designed together with the largest organization of the UN, the WFP, for the children of a remote village in the Congo. I wish to express my condolences, along with the whole party, for the tragic disappearance of these two extraordinary servants of the State, torn from their duty in these tragic circumstances, who have given their lives for the country with self-denial and competence. My most sincere closeness goes to their families, to the diplomatic network and to the Carabinieri's weapon. I believe it is now necessary to reconstruct the dynamics of what has happened and to clarify the circumstances that have allowed all this to happen, so that the disappearance of Ambassador Attanasio and Carabiniere Iacovacci is not in vain and can contribute to a broader assessment of the conditions in which our men engaged abroad exercise their work at the service of the State, in difficult and dangerous contexts with professionalism and dedication, contributing to the maintenance of peace. This deepening is necessary in order to be able to evaluate all the additional safety measures to be taken so that what has happened does not happen again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u77	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u78	Mr President, Minister, thank you for coming to the Senate so quickly to report on the dramatic events in Congo. It is a real drama for all of us and for all of the Italian people. On behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars I express a deep and sincere condolence for the disappearance of the Italian ambassador Luca Attanasio and the carabiniere member of his escort, Vittorio Iacovacci, as well as their driver Mustapha Milambo. [[Applause]] It upsets the tragic death of two young Italians who, as they tell relatives and friends, wanted to be an instrument of peace and instead were killed by that invisible violence, but always present, that consumes the Democratic Republic of Congo. Ambassador Attanasio was one of the youngest diplomats in the world and was described by the many who were close to him as an extremely selfless man and actively committed to improving the life of anyone who needed it. In 2020 he was awarded the Nassiriya International Peace Prize for his humanitarian commitment, his dedication to social affairs and his closeness to the last. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration and Delegate to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I have travelled a great deal and had the privilege and pleasure of meeting many of our diplomats. Let me express my deep gratitude to all our ambassadors, especially those who, operating in the most problematic quadrants of the world, risk their daily lives with an unprecedented professionalism to bring up the name of our country. [[Applause]] I am also thinking of all the men of the Armed Forces who, like our Carabiniere Iacovacci, carry out their complex task with dedication both at home and in the international missions, establishing themselves as a guarantee of the fundamental principles of the Italian State and international law. Minister, killing one of our ambassadors is tantamount to hitting the whole of Italy, whatever is responsible, rebel, military or outlaw, and whatever the motive of the armed attack, robbery or kidnapping, one thing is certain: the government authorities of the Democratic Republic of Congo had a duty to guarantee the security of a diplomat and today they have a duty to shed full light on what has happened. [[Applause]] Again, I am convinced that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and our intelligence will do everything to dispel any doubt about what has happened. I am also sure that the Farnesina will give families all possible support at this incredibly painful time. We also consider it necessary to clarify the possible responsibilities of the security officers of the UN peace mission, the Monusco, in order to understand whether there has been for them an underestimation of the risk and a consequent omission in the preparation of the security measures for the convoy, which seems to have been devoid of armed escort despite the territory is notoriously haunted by armed militias. What happened brings to our attention the situation of endemic violence in the regions of eastern Congo, rich in raw materials contended by armed militias backed by neighbouring countries and beyond. Essential raw materials for the global high-tech industry, for the construction of our electronic devices. A conflict that has devastated these lands for decades and that no international effort, no United Nations operation has been able to stop or at least mitigate. [[Applause]] It would be desirable to ask ourselves questions about this. Today's mourning must push the international community to face with greater diligence and incisiveness the infinite and guiltfully forgotten conflicts that tear the Congo and all Central Africa. Luca loved Africa and if we really want to honour his memory, we must invest in human capital and in cooperation so that the African continent can be peaceful and not plundered, as history sadly teaches us. [[Applause]] Minister, President, ladies and gentlemen, we will never forget the sacrifice of these martyrs. If our country is so loved and esteemed in the world it is also thanks to the dedication and professionalism of men and women who daily commit themselves to the tricolour and for this they will always remain in our hearts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u79	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available. I suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.29 a.m. and resumed at 13.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u80	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Health on further measures to deal with the Covid-19 emergency. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u81	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, in a constant and positive relationship with Parliament, I come back to this House, aware that a close link between the Government and Parliament is the only effective way to deal with this unprecedented health emergency in history. I am here dutylessly not only to inform the Senate and then the House first, but also and above all to listen carefully to the evaluations and proposals that will emerge from the debate that will take place today. The end of the DPCM is scheduled for 5 March; the Government is here in the Chamber well in advance, in compliance with current legislation, just to listen carefully to proposals and suggestions from all parliamentarians. In the same spirit, in the next few days I will be in the competent Commissions to continue in that forum too the confrontation with all political forces. At the same time, as has been the case since the beginning of this terrible pandemic, the comparison continues with the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces, the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) and the Union of Italian Provinces. It is clear to everyone that only the common work of all institutions can lead us to overcome the challenge we face. This debate is particularly important because it is the first to take place after the vote of confidence and the subsequent start of the new Government. We are clearly in a completely new political situation. In this regard, allow me to thank our President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, who, with authority, has allowed our country to emerge from such a difficult political crisis. Now, after the crisis with a very large parliamentary majority, we must all feel strong the political and civil obligation to respond positively to the substantive reasons that led to the birth of this Executive: to tackle with determination the serious health, economic and social emergencies that the pandemic has caused in Italy. Never, as in the situation we are experiencing, is it terribly true that time, when dealing with problems, is not an independent variable. The President-in-Office of the Council, in his first speech in this House with which he outlined the government's programme and asked Parliament for confidence, said that unity is not an option but a duty. These are clear words, which have the merit of not having to be explained or interpreted. Of a true unity, even of the forces that are in opposition today, we absolutely need to defeat this bloody virus that has turned our lives upside down. I have always called for and hoped for genuine national cohesion in the management of the emergency. I repeat the same words today because, in my opinion, they sum up the basic orientation that must guide our work every day. From 20 February, from the first cases of Codogno now a year ago, it was immediately clear to all the people responsible and of good will that without a united effort of the republican institutions and of every citizen it would not have been or less defeated this incredibly strong enemy that suddenly forced us to renounce personal freedoms that we thought unattackable and that has hit hard our economic and social activities. There is no other way than unity to deal with the biggest health, economic and civil emergency we have known since the post-war period. We are at the last mile, a delicate and decisive step to win, finally, this long and difficult battle that we have been conducting for months. Now, even more than in other phases of the emergency, we need a unitary effort and a loyal collaboration, in Rome as in all the Regions. To these words I would like to add a further consideration, which I think is very important. The pandemic is not only fought with the central or territorial good governance, with timely and timely measures of the institutions, with the precious and irreplaceable work of the scientific community and health professionals. The additional weapon, the decisive one, is the active collaboration of every person; it is a widespread awareness of our communities to observe all good practices to protect individual and collective security and the measures adopted. The more effective we achieve this result, the more we are, together, able to convey a message of strong cohesion and sharing the decisions taken. As it is quite clear, in fact, the polemics disorient citizens increasingly tired of the long crisis, worried and uncertain about their future, because they are affected by the social and economic consequences of the pandemic. I believe that, together with unity and responsibility, it is indispensable to always tell the truth to the country about the progress of the pandemic that struck, without any distinction, all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the first indication that, through your means, I want to address to the country is to reaffirm a message of trust: we will embarrass the virus, thanks to the science and thanks to the daily work of our healthcare staff, which we will never stop thanking for the tireless work that it carries out every day. Having to note that scientific research, with extraordinary work, unprecedented in the history of medicine, has been faster than the increase in the production capacity of pharmaceutical companies, must not lead us to wrong assessments. The delays of some supplies, which, unfortunately, there are, will not change the final outcome of the game in progress. The Covid-19, with the progressive increase in vaccine deliveries, is destined to be arginated. It is not a rhetorical phrase, without foundation, to continue to say that, at last, we see the light at the end of the tunnel. I will look at the vaccination campaign later, but I immediately wanted to call for a message of thoughtful confidence in our future. The second message wants and must be equally clear. In this last mile we absolutely cannot lower our guard. There are no epidemiological conditions today to loosen the measures against the pandemic. What I am expressing is a shared assessment, supported by our scientists, the Higher Institute of Health, the Higher Health Council and our Scientific Technical Committee. With regard to this body, which is to be thanked, first of all, for its valuable work in recent months, all that can be done to make it more agile and timely, is certainly useful to our work. The idea of a more unambiguous communication and the hypothesis of a spokesperson is also a proposal that can be welcomed. Do not underestimate the difficulties and risks it is essential to try to avoid a new uncontrolled spread of contagion, which would put our hospitals in crisis again and make our vaccination campaign more difficult. It is not an Italian problem: it is the world in which we live that is not in a safe condition, because the circulation of the virus is still strong and because there are variations with a high rate of contagiousity. And unfortunately, the number of victims remains very high. To tell the truth to the country is an obligation that we must all feel very strong, even when these truths are uncomfortable. Data, as always, are clearer and more precise than words. In Europe, we approach the threshold of one infected every 10 inhabitants and we are to one deceased every 530 inhabitants. One infected every 10 inhabitants I think is a figure that alone expresses the strength and danger of this virus that we are fighting. In the world, there are 112 million cases confirmed since the beginning of the pandemic and 2.5 million people who have lost their lives. Without extending into too long a series of data - all very interesting to fully understand the extent of the phenomenon - I merely recall a news reported in recent days by newspapers around the world, a terrible news in its dramatic evidence: in the great America, in the United States of America the virus caused more deaths than the First and Second World Wars and the Vietnam War. Before analysing the situation in Italy in detail, I would like very briefly to mention the measures currently in force in some of the main European countries. Britain has been in lockdown for two months, it's the third lockdown in a year and only on March 8th it will reopen schools. Portugal is in lockdown. Spain has adopted a differentiated system with very restrictive measures. In Germany, where only 7,000 cases per day have been registered in the last week, since mid-December a general lockdown - the second for them - has been established with the closure of schools, maximum implementation of remote work and closure of ski resorts; the suspension of lockdown is scheduled for March, but Merkel has already announced that a progressive release of measures will be necessary, also in view of the insidious presence of variants. Important restrictive measures continue to continue in France, with bar and restaurant closures - uninterrupted since October - and curfew which has been anticipated since mid-January at 6 p.m. The ski lifts in the ski resorts remain closed and there is no real start to the winter season. Despite these measures, the country has recorded an average of 22,000 cases per day in the last week. For the first time even Sweden, which has never taken strict and restrictive containment measures before, has had a national law that gives the government the power to decide total lockdowns. It is therefore clear to me that the main European nations, governed by political majorities and forces of different orientations, have chosen after the first wave a common line of maximum rigour to stem the spread of the pandemic. Italy moves in the wake of this European line of prudence, caution and primacy of the defence of the right to health. This evaluation led the Government, already last Monday, to approve in the Council of Ministers the decree that extends to 27 March the prohibition of movement between Regions and the limit of the two people for visits to private homes in yellow area and in orange air. I think it would be a serious mistake if suddenly, without clear scientific evidence, not supported by robust technical analyses, we faced in a different way from the great nations near us the final part of the long health emergency that we are experiencing. It is a dangerous illusion to imagine being able to overcome a global challenge such as the pandemic without a strong European dimension of our initiatives, on whose international coordination we must continue to invest. Differentiating the measures at regional level, linking the choices to scientific parameters, allows us to act in a way proportional to the actual situation of contagion of each territory and has allowed us to not resort to other generalized lockdowns beyond that of last March. We must not forget that other countries in Europe, as I mentioned earlier, have made two or even three. The parameters leading to the definition of risk zones have been adopted on the basis of scientific assessments and have always been shared by the Regions. I think it is useful, at this stage, also in the light of the impact of the variants, to encourage a new comparison with a technical table between experts from the Higher Institute of Health, the Ministry of Health and the Regions to assess the framework in which we are. Seriously analysing the contagion curve, strictly according to the numbers and evaluations that each week records the direction booth that, as is known, is composed of nine members, of which three of the Ministry of Health, three of the Higher Institute of Health and three representatives of the Regions, in the state of things it is essential to maintain an approach of great prudence. It is true, also thanks to the strict measures taken during the Christmas holidays, our incidence rate in Italy is currently better than that of many other European countries, but the epidemiological data should be read in their progressive evolution, and not statically. It has already happened during this pandemic that in our country the worsening of the contagion curve hit us a few weeks late. The direction booth, in its last monitoring, shows that in Italy - for the third consecutive week - signs of a gradual increase in epidemiological evolution are confirmed. The weekly incidence exceeds the threshold of 200 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in three regions; the national incidence compared to the previous week goes from 133.13 to 135.46 per 100,000 inhabitants; the weekly incidence is therefore still far from the level of cases per week every 100,000 inhabitants that would allow throughout the national territory the identification and tracing of their contacts, action on which we must continue to invest with every energy. The number of new cases not associated with transmission chains increases and increases from 28,360 to 29,196; with a high and increasing incidence, the ability to contact tracing, the prevention of regional health systems is reduced and consequently the risks of a spread difficult to control are increased. With this level of incidence we have intensive therapies in five Regions above the critical threshold of 30 percent; on average, at national level they are occupied at 24 percent, but with strong variations from Region to Region, and in the last few days a total increase in the number of people hospitalized is consolidated. The mean Rt calculated on symptomatic cases in the last survey was 0.99, rising compared to the previous week and with an upper limit exceeding 1. Ten regions have a punctual Rt greater than 1, of which nine even in the lower limit, rising compared to the previous week. Outside of technicalities, this means that the Rt is beginning, with the measures currently in force, to exceed the threshold of 1. Even non-workers have now learned that with more than 1 Rt, the number of daily infections is constantly increasing significantly. A further increase in the number of cases could quickly lead to an overload of health services, given the very high incidence context with many people in the critical area. More generally, I believe that in order to deal positively with this last mile, while the vaccination campaign continues, it is essential not to lose the memory of the months behind us, the sacrifices and losses we have had to pay. All epidemiological studies tell us that there is a very close relationship between the curve and the containment measures taken, and so in Italy, Europe and all over the world. The numbers, once again in their evidence, leave no room for interpretative doubts. On March 20, on the most dramatic day of the first wave, we had recorded 6,237 cases, with a capacity to make swabs then very reduced. After lockdown, in July, the daily average had dropped to 237 cases per day. In the summer, after the loosening of the measures and some reopenings, we went from 778 cases in July to 1,600 in August to about 10,000 average cases in September. In October, then, we reached 183,000 cases a week. Then, again, a strengthening of the measures, thanks to the three bands, has allowed us to overcome those difficulties and we have dealt positively with the Christmas holidays. In the indisputable clarity of these numbers there is the underlying reason for us to be particularly cautious, all the more so at this stage in which dangerous and contagious variants are spread. The presence of these variants will condition the epidemic as a whole. The English variant is now widely present in most of the national territory. The last study of the Higher Institute of Health certified its presence in 17.8 percent of cases. This figure is growing strongly, due to its higher rate of transmission, by about 35 to 40 percent and compared to the original strain. This variant will soon be prevalent in our country, as it is already becoming in other European countries. There is no doubt that this increased rate of spread makes it more difficult to control the virus and makes it even more indispensable to raise the level of guard in the country. Fortunately, however, this variant, which emerged for the first time in Kent and now spread throughout Europe, does not compromise the effectiveness of vaccines. Two other variants, Brazilian and South African, are more insidious, as they could reduce, albeit partially, the vaccine effectiveness. Studies and research are under way to deepen their impact and resistance to vaccines. As their circulation is restricted for the time being in certain punctual parts of the national territory, it is still possible to contain its diffusion, provided that very strict measures are adopted and applied promptly, which can surgically limit the outbreaks, facilitating the distance within the affected area and avoiding mobility to the outside. Following the appearance of variants and as a result of the emergence of outbreaks characterised by intense viral activity, several of these red or orange areas have been implemented, including at sub-regional level. In fact, in the last few days, the need for 25 red zones has been pointed out by five regions, some of which have been decided because of the outbreak of epidemics due to an English variant, others due to the presence of a Brazilian or South African variant. Those restrictive measures are indispensable. We are aware that they involve sacrifices, but there is no other way at this time to prevent a worsening of the epidemiological picture. There is all the commitment of the Government to promote adequate refreshments for those economic and entrepreneurial activities, which are paying a high price for containment and mitigation measures. This, in my opinion, must apply to the national orders, which I signed weekly, which from now on will be in force from Monday, as for the sub-regional ones, assumed under the responsibility of the territorial administrators. The evolution of the epidemiological picture deserves to be followed with the utmost attention. We will have to check, step by step, whether the measures are adequate to deal with the situation that is emerging. The compass, for me, in the writing of the next DCCM, which will be in force from 6 March to 6 April, must always be the principle of protection and protection of the fundamental right to health, as enshrined in our Constitution, in Article 32. In the battle against this virus, which has hit us so hard, we must not hesitate: to limit the spread of the infection until, with the vaccination campaign, we permanently embarrass the Covid and its variants, is the indispensable prerequisite to return to make our country grow in a stable and sustainable way. Health victory is the first and indispensable tile to make Italy really start again: there can be no real growth, without health security. Accelerating the vaccination campaign is, also in this sense, the fundamental objective that we must and want to pursue, in order to defeat the Covid as quickly as possible. Even and above all on this issue it is fundamental not to feed controversy and divisions, which disorient and discourage the Italians. I appeal to all political forces: the success of the vaccination campaign is the objective of the whole country and not part of it. Our country is a great country, able to vaccinate hundreds of thousands of citizens a day. The regions are further strengthening their organisational capacity. To the staff of the ASL, to the staff recruited by the Special Commissioner, to the doctors of the military health have been added, with the agreement that Sunday evening we have signed with all the union organizations, the family doctors of our country. I want to thank them all: their membership is an important fact. They are more than 40,000 professionals, who with their widespread presence in every corner of the country and their trust with the caregivers will ensure our new vaccination campaign sap, as soon as we have an adequate number of doses of vaccine out of the freezing chain. We therefore have an articulated and very strong team of vaccine workers, ready to carry out this decisive work with passion and professionalism in order to definitively stop the spread of Covid in our country. The work to organize the vaccination campaign better and better has been going on for months, without a moment of rest. Day after day, the regions and the Commissioner's structure are setting up more and more vaccination points. The computer system is functioning properly and further improvement of support logistics is being carried out. It is crucial, for a decisive and effective acceleration of our vaccination campaign, the timely delivery of the doses that we have chosen in time. Italy does not review the reduction of doses, which on the basis of the contracts signed by the European Commission defines in 13.46 percent the share of vaccines due to our country for each agreement signed. At the summits of the Community institutions, in agreement with the major European nations, we are exerting maximum pressure on manufacturers to find solutions necessary to increase the production of vaccines. In order to address and solve this problem, all possible solutions must be pursued, not excluded. As prestigious personalities from the scientific community, the political and religious world, associationism and volunteering have supported, a health emergency of this size does not support the idea of exclusive patent ownership. Producing vaccines must be considered an asset to be made available to all countries of the world, rich and highly developed and those most in difficulty, with more fragile health systems. The vaccine must indeed be a common good, accessible to all women and men on earth: a right of all and not a privilege of a few. Our country, which since the beginning of the pandemic has promoted and supported the Community initiative for the centralised purchase of vaccines, always in agreement with the European Commission, has been working for a long time to verify concretely the possibility of making available Italian pharmaceutical plants to accelerate their production. More generally, the choice that the Government intends to promote with determination is to continue to invest to support and develop the Italian industrial pharmaceutical system, which is a fundamental strategic asset for our country, not to cultivate an illusory national self-sufficiency, but to be an increasingly strong and authoritative partner of the European and world production system. The pharmaceutical industry is a strategic industrial sector in which Italy, in the live of its pandemic, has already invested in the production of monoclonal antibodies, with the valuable work of Toscana Life Sciences, and to support the production of the Italian vaccine made by ReiThera, also thanks to the work of the Istituto Spallanzani. I would also like to remind you that the viral vector of the AstraZeneca vaccine comes from the Pomezia Irbm and that the glare for both AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson takes place and will take place at the Anagni Catalent. With the gradual increase in the delivery of doses, we will be able to speed up the implementation of the strategic vaccination plan brought here to Parliament on 2 December and also its subsequent integration into the State-Regions Conference on 3 February. The strategic objectives to which we work, in a very close daily relationship with all Italian realities and with the structure of the Commissioner in the emergency are three: first, to complete as quickly as possible the first phase of our vaccination campaign to secure all our social and health personnel, the RSA and Italian citizens over eighty years. They are the most exposed categories, those that paid the highest price in terms of human lives, in the first and second wave of the pandemic. The first signs of immunity in these categories are finally visible and are an encouraging sign of hope for all of us. I want to remind you that six out of ten deaths - six out of ten - occurred in our country among people over 80. To vaccinate those people is to secure them and save their lives. We will now give the utmost attention to the particularly fragile groups suffering from one or more serious diseases, as identified in agreement with the Higher Health Council. I would also like to thank the National Bioethics Committee for its valuable suggestions for the difficult work that is taking place. At the same time - and this is the third objective - reservations and first vaccinations have been started for school staff, which is a priority to raise the level of safety of our schools and to promote teaching in the presence, and for staff of essential public services. For these immunizations, the AstraZeneca vaccine is used, which to date is reserved for people under sixty-five years of age. It is, as you can see, an impressive job. To the millions of Italians who are waiting their turn to be vaccinated I repeat, in conclusion, the message of trust and hope that I addressed to them at the beginning of my speech. The international scientific community has made an unprecedented effort, making possible the production in record time of safe and effective vaccines. Their work is continuing these weeks, studying the effectiveness of vaccines in relation to the new variants of the Covid-19 that are spreading around the world. The production of vaccines for billions of people has, as is quite clear, put a strain on the industrial reference system. There have been delays in the delivery of doses, but they will be exceeded; but the vaccination campaign does not stop, it goes on and, day after day, it will increase the share of immunized citizens. Italy is a great country that, together with the European Union, the international scientific community and our health professionals, will meet this challenge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u82	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u83	Mr President, Ministers, fellow senators, Mr Hope, I am pleased that today, in addition to you, the Minister for Regional Affairs and the autonomous Mariastella Gelmini is also present, because the issue, which obviously concerns the health emergency and the pandemic from Covid-19, also concerns the administrative structure of our country. The Minister for Regional Affairs must therefore be present whenever the restrictions or measures to be taken are discussed with a view to resolving this serious problem. We are therefore delighted with this. I have spoken several times in your presence, dear Minister Hope, on this subject. Today's is, however, a major senator's debut and it is right to remember that. That is precisely why, as has always been the case in my speeches, I would try to make a contribution as a Member of Parliament, also bearing in mind the appreciation that exists in the fact that, before adopting the measure, you, Minister, have come to the Senate, together with your colleague for regional affairs, restoring centrality and importance to Parliament. I would like to focus on the final part of your speech, particularly on the national vaccination plan and the speed with which it is concluded, and hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. With regard to the news coming from Europe, yesterday I read the speech by Commission President Von der Leyen, who said that the problem is not so much the number of vaccines that must be produced, but how many doses can be produced. Therefore, the absolutely central theme to defeat the pandemic he mentioned is to respond to the number of doses and requests that come from all the territories of the Union and also from our country. In my view, the most important aspect - which you, Minister, also mentioned in the final part of your speech - is that we should also work within the European Union to ensure that Italy also has the opportunity to produce these doses as soon as possible. To me there are at least two new pharmaceutical plants producing anti-Covid vaccines and I believe that in this respect we must do everything we can to try to speed up. In saying this, I want to make you a further important proposal, to which Mr Ronzulli referred yesterday, to which I was followed shortly afterwards. As you mentioned, in some parts of our country the English variant is doing massacres. You said that in five regions there are over 25 red areas. We must ensure that the vaccination doses arrive first and foremost in the red zones; this criterion is also being adopted in the United States: in Illinois, for example, it is bearing very important fruit. In red areas we must create a reserve of solidarity and ensure that the greatest number of vaccines go first to those territories because the English variant in those areas has exceeded more than 70% of the contagions. I conclude by saying: take account of this proposal; zoning is fine, but we must concentrate the doses of vaccines in red areas because this criterion is also giving positive results in the United States of America. This is the proposal of Forza Italia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u84	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u85	Mr President, Minister, several Italians living abroad, but who are in Italy, write complaining about the impossibility of being able to vaccinate against Covid. The vaccination campaign has shadowy areas that raise questions and cost them, unfortunately, they are, in some cases, the most fragile. There is a problem of production speed - it has just been said - and of limiting patent protection. It is desirable that our Government, at European level, should endeavour to obtain derogations from the Trade related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) agreements on patents, so as to ensure free and universal access for all. There is still a problem with the second dose. With the Scientific Committee, we must consider whether it is not appropriate to save the second dose for those who have already had problems with Covid having developed an antibody response. In one of these shadow areas are registered with the Register of Italian nationals residing abroad (AIRE), who are for some reason in Italy and who by law are not entitled to the vaccine even though they are Italian citizens. The legislation, in fact, provides that they can register temporarily with the National Health Service, but this gives them the right to take advantage for ninety days of emergency medical assistance and, therefore, is excluded the possibility of having a basic doctor, even if in term, and to take advantage of the vaccination anti-Covid. Defining the number of people in this limbo is almost impossible because of the almost 5.5 million members of the AIRE register it is not allowed to know how many are currently in Italy because they are not obliged to communicate their presence in the territory. They are, in practice, Italians who pay taxes even in Italy, where they have real estate, but cannot take advantage of health services, except those of emergency because the first thing they ask when they book for the vaccine is the health card, which do not have, unlike, for example, an immigrant with a residence permit that you can vaccinate here in Italy. Other countries such as the United Kingdom also allow non-residents to vaccinate, giving priority to residents. The question was already raised at the end of January through a question submitted to the Chamber in which it was asked to provide for the extension of vaccination also to fellow citizens resident in Italy in recent months, in agreement with the Regions and respecting the timing to be defined and after reservation at the ASLs in which the municipalities of AIRE registration fall. A request consistent not only with the respect of the right to health provided for by our law, but also with the effectiveness of the mass vaccination campaign. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to consider this issue and to allow our fellow countrymen, even though they are resident abroad, to be able to vaccinate in Italy as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u86	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Speranza, I agree with what my colleague Mr Pagano said: this is a debate in which you are Minister of a different majority, of which I am now a member. And then I would like to highlight some issues concerning a change of pace and differentiation, which was marked by the approval of what President Draghi said in this House when he asked for confidence in this Government. President Draghi spoke of the commitment to inform citizens sufficiently in advance of any change in the rules and also said very clearly that civil protection, the armed forces and volunteers are needed for the vaccination campaign, to do as soon as possible, building on the experience of tampons. Frankly, what I can do today is to make suggestions - as you have requested - with regard to the issues which, on the basis of what President Draghi has said in Parliament, must be taken into account. I shall go briefly on points, Minister. We have been impressed by the fact that the decision-making process has become more orderly; for this I would like to thank the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, because it was very clear the process relating to the meeting that took place at 7 p.m. with the Presidents of the Region, which gave rise to a single document reported to the Council of Ministers. Secondly, we believe that the involvement of the Minister for Economic Affairs has certainly been positive, because when we think about closures, we must also ensure that there is a need for refreshment. We also believe that there is a positive, and indeed indispensable, view that there is only one spokesman for the scientific side. Minister, we have already spoken about this in another forum and at another time: we can no longer have a thousand scientific voices. In addition to this, there is a suggestion that I feel strongly about: when the data are quoted and comparisons are made with other European countries (which is essential, because this pandemic descends from the North towards us), I think it is appropriate to be more precise with reference not only to the closing measures that are taken in Europe, but also to the results that are obtained according to the closures, because otherwise you risk giving the idea of choosing closure simply because it is the simplest way. Thirdly, we believe that it is important to provide timely information on vaccination, which we believe should be taken. It is important to provide precise and daily results, with reference also to the various experiences in the individual regions. The signs that can be derived from vaccination are perhaps more important today than those related to intensive therapies. Minister, I conclude by reminding all of us that this year from Norcia the torch of San Benedetto inaugurates the season of March Benedictine (it is a reference to my Region). The torch will be sent to Brescia and Spallanzani, because it illuminates the political decision-makers, whom I hope, in the context of the vaccine management and in the context of the management of the pandemic, as well as the data concerning the reasons why it must be closed, actually explain what the picture is, without just giving the gloomy shades. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u88	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u89	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the presence today in the Chamber of Ministers Hope and Gelmini inaugurates a new political course of national unity that sees us all gathered to achieve the security that the Italians ask us from a health and economic point of view. The political alchemy indicated by the President of the Republic Mattarella and realized through the formation of this Government by President Draghi will be able to demonstrate, if managed with responsibility, how the parties represent the means and not the end of politics with the capital P of Platonic and Aristotelian memory, always dedicated and oriented to the search for solutions in the exclusive interest of the people. With a constructive spirit I address you today, Minister Hope, also in my capacity as a doctor and university teacher, to stress that human beings are perfectable and from the mistakes made they can learn important lessons in order to achieve better results in the future. Today is not the day of recriminations, but the time of good intentions and shared actions, the result of collegial choices to be made in Parliament on health strategies that can ferry Italians in calmer waters. The priority is certainly vaccination, able to produce rapid immunization of the population, allowing to limit the damage in terms of human lives and mobility. In terms of vaccination the time factor is of absolute importance: first we will put the health of Italians in safety and first we will start the Italy system. There is no recovery of the economy without health certainty. It is therefore time to concentrate all the energies of the country on a large-scale vaccination campaign that exceeds the contingency of the quantities of vaccine, also going along those roads that can foresee the purchase of vaccines from the free market, outside the doses assigned to us by the European Union. Welcome, then, to the vaccine sovereignism - and I say this with constructive good-natured humor, appreciating the intuition of Minister Giorgetti - in the agreement in itinere with Farmindustria in order to make the vaccine inflate by Italian pharmaceutical companies suitable for this type of activity. It is also important to organise a wide-ranging vaccination network involving all hospital health facilities, the territory with basic doctors at the forefront, voluntary health associations, civil protection and military health. Today is the time not of the primrose, but of the actions decided and coordinated to an exact year from Codogno, that marked the beginning of the pandemic in Italy, in order to avert a new wave, with the mutations of the virus, that would be mortal for the Italy system. It is important to share the wise choices of emergency management, avoiding leaving the decision-making power in the hands of a single person in well-known strategic issues of national interest, as well as the expenditure of large sums of money (I speak of billions of euros) without wishing to question their illegal use (aspects, these, which might affect other authorities not present in this House). Today we are here to help improve our health system, which has demonstrated its weakness, mainly related to a disconnect between the hospital situations and the territory, with all its fragility in the basic medicine and the absence of epidemiological observers of health surveillance that must represent the sentries able to give the alarm that - alas - has passed unknown in the early pandemic phases, and then explode with unheard of violence. We have learned a lot and now we will certainly do better, with more attention to the efficiency of the territorial health system, dedicated to the constant monitoring of the population, with a continuous update and an analysis in real time of the epidemiological data coming from the regions in order to be able to plan, with certainty and in time, at central level the strategies to adopt, with a punctual update of the national pandemic plan, sharing and spreading the guidelines of home therapy of the patients, also those positive asymptomatic but at risk, in order to avoid the excessive recourse to hospitalization with collapse of the hospital structures. All this is certain that early diagnosis and treatment often, especially in those at risk, greatly reduces the evolution of the disease with a drop in hospitalizations and deaths. Speaking now as a parent, I urge the need for a rapid recovery in security of social life in order to meet the serious psychological distress of our young people at school age, stressing the important role of school not only as a place of cultural learning, but also as a gym of socialization. It is important to activate a health resilience plan for the complete resumption of non-Covid clinical and surgical activities, which the pandemic has slowed considerably for the conversion of many departments into Covid units, resulting in an unsustainable extension of waiting lists especially of oncology diseases with worsening of patient prognosis. Finally, as a doctor and university lecturer, I launch an alarm and an appeal on the desertification of the medical and health class in general linked to the negative balance between pensions and new recruitments, to be attributed both to an antihistorical number closed for admission to the faculty of medicine and surgery, and to a small and insufficient number of places in the schools of specialization. A dramatic situation discovered by the emergency Covid that is having a negative impact on the health performance of our country. Hand numbers are expected to be missing over 50,000 doctors from the National Health Service over the next seven years, also taking into account the fact that Italian doctors are among the oldest in Europe. This problem in Sardinia, a region where I live and work, because of the insularity has taken on an even more serious and emerging extent due to the serious shortage of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians, as well as to the closure of numerous hospital departments due to the absence of specialist doctors. In the universities of Cagliari and Sassari there has been an increasing number of young people from other Italian regions who, after graduating in medicine and surgery or specialization, easily cross the Tyrrhenian Sea to carry out their medical and specialized profession in the regions of origin. Taking into account that to pass national tests for access to the degree course in medicine and surgery and post-graduate specialization courses are a percentage of Sardinian students varying from 10 to 20 percent, it is clear that the closed number does not allow the formation of a sufficient number of Sardinian specialists to cover the needs of the Regional Health System related to the turnover of the medical class. To this end, I would like to see close cooperation between the Dicastery that you direct and that of the university, as well as close involvement of regional institutions and universities which are at the forefront of meeting the needs of regional health systems. I conclude, Minister, by stressing that today this majority is opening up an important line of credit, with the prayer to contribute with its work to restore to the Italians the sense of trust in the State. Thank you for your attention and I say "Fortza Paris" to you, which is the motto of the Sardinian party of action, even before the glorious Sassari Brigade, which is well suited to the moment that we live today, where we either win together, or there will be no victory for anyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u90	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, personally since the first hour of this terrible pandemic, I have always said that common sense and prudence should guide us in the choices to be made for the country. I believe in the importance of the use of masks and social space, and so I have taken both measures before they became the rules of our daily lives. Today I keep thinking that data and science should be the guiding lighthouse in support of our decisions, but science must speak with one voice, without confusing and without causing unnecessary alarms. In an interview, the president of the Italian Association of Drugs (AIFA) pointed out that no new total closures would be needed, but stricter anti-assembling rules would be more useful. Nothing more true: it makes no sense to close and block entire territories for whole weeks if then, after the period of lockdown, everything starts to move again as or worse as before, with the occasions of infection that multiply even faster. The virus has never stopped circulating; with variants, the speed at which it circulates is greater than before. Therefore, until there is adequate vaccine coverage, you will need to know how to live with it without stopping our lives. That is why I believe that, as long as possible, commercial, catering and accommodation activities should be able to open without time restrictions, but with all the cautions of the case. [[Applause]] For activities that are forced to remain firm, they will immediately serve real compensation, compensation for loss and no relief, as you call them, Minister, or loans, otherwise they will be condemned to close their doors forever. Minister, we are working better on tracking and planning the measures to be taken; we are laying down strict rules to allow reopenings; we are increasing controls and making them stricter, but we are preventing further closures. The country's economy seems to have reached oxygen, just like the most serious patients in Covid. With the hope that as soon as possible the Government will achieve the objective of ensuring that our country can have a sufficient number of doses to achieve immunity of flock, allow me to take advantage of this opportunity to raise the problem of those who need the vaccine, but is outside the home, that is, outside its city of residence: teachers, seniors, university teachers, employees outside the home, forced to return to their city, facing travel expenses, risks of contagion related to travel, various logistical issues, only to submit to the vaccine to which all of us should have the right without having to face so many problems. On vaccines to school staff, for example, the regions proceed in scattered order, but it is necessary to ensure the widest possible vaccination coverage. Therefore, to demand the residence or domicile of those who submit to the vaccine I think it is profoundly wrong. Mr Minister, you said this just now: the vaccine must be good for everyone. It would be enough to have the regions dialogue and implement osmosis mechanisms in terms of data and vaccination doses. This being so, in any case, the second paragraph of Article 120 of the Constitution provides for a sort of state supremacy clause in the event of a serious danger to public safety and security. The news of the fifteen nurses of the hospital San Martino of Genoa positive to the Covid after having refused to undergo the vaccine confirms that it is absolutely necessary to introduce the obligation of vaccination for the health personnel and for anyone who carries out tasks of care for the next. Finally, I believe that it is essential to start to vaccinate even the youngest people, the workforce, those who every day leave the house, produce and turn the economy. It is sacrosanct to submit to the vaccine elderly and fragile subjects, but the virus mainly travels on young people - and you know it well - who go out every day, have an important number of daily contacts and are often asymptomatic. Mr Minister, I conclude by saying that it is right not to lower your guard and that the attention in the war on the virus is kept high, but good sense as well as "prudence" must be the watchwords. Unfortunately, many choices made in recent months have not seemed so sensible; many mistakes have been made and too many are the delays accumulated. A number of shadows remain about Commissioner Arcuri's work. We therefore trust in a change of pace in the sign of discontinuity, pragmatism, rationality and transparency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the pandemic emergency is being fought and won by everyone's contribution and sacrifice. We cannot deceive ourselves that a single measure can be panacea and solve complex problems, first of all health, but also economic and social. In view of the complex epidemiological situation in our country, I believe that much of the measures adopted by the previous Government must be transposed, continuing on the path taken. Obviously you will have to try to correct and modify those things that have worked less, progressively marking a discontinuity with everything that has given results not corresponding to expectations. Fundamental will be the sharing between the various ministries concerned, so that each of them can bring their own contribution and their own requests, trying to amalgamate, harmonize and balance the needs, smoothing out the differences; all this creating a common front, without ever forgetting that the health of the individual and of the community constitute an inalienable and priority good. In my opinion, it will be important to reduce the differences, sometimes marked, between the measures taken by the Government and their correct and complete implementation at regional level. A direct connection with the Regions is indispensable in respect of their autonomy, in order to create the right symbiosis and the correct amalgam, managing to face common against the only true enemy: the coronavirus and its variants. As in every big family, if you don't talk, you don't discuss and you don't share the decisions you make in the end, you won't be able to get the desired results. This is also true for the mass vaccination campaign which, after this phase of stasis, is indisputable that it has the right acceleration, capable of expanding as much as possible and in limited time the audience to be reached. It is the only weapon available in order to really be able to reopen the country in a lasting way. To this end it is essential, Minister, beyond the participation and commitment of the Armed Forces and their health organization, to the active and involved involvement of regional structures, understood as a commitment of personnel, means and structures, thus involving the territorial units and the basic doctors, fundamental elements in order to reach in a widespread way the whole of the national territory. Some of the gaps that have been highlighted so far often stem, on the one hand, from the slowness of the organizational machine, with a temporal discrepancy between the data that photograph the real epidemiological situation on the territories and the timeliness of the measures subsequently taken to correct them and reduce the spread of the virus. On the other hand, the data have been linked to the timely reporting of the measures to be applied, which are often delayed by the deadlines set, which have undoubtedly led to various difficulties for the categories and activities concerned. Therefore, Mr President, starting to conclude, I think it is important that decisions are increasingly shared and that decisions are more closely coordinated and better coordinated with regional structures. All this is also an essential point for the citizens, stimulating them to become increasingly convinced of the measures taken and increasingly stimulating their sense of responsibility and belonging. The battle against coronavirus is won with the help of science, but with the contribution of all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u94	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u95	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, now that the government crisis has been resolved, it is necessary to take up again vigorously the action to combat SARS-Cov2 from where we stayed, taking due account in the meantime of the dramatic words spoken by the President of the Republic in his capacity as Head of State, when he addressed the Italians with the order of priorities: combating the spread of the pandemic, vaccination plan, economic recovery, support measures for the groups most exposed and affected. In this respect, as you know, Minister, the resolution of 13 January, adopted by this House and subsequently accompanied by a special technical and illustrious report, was in motion. This resolution commits the Government to promoting the creation and dissemination of test points as subsidiary epidemiological logistic infrastructures, also with the use of volunteering, favored by the deburocratization of the necessary procedures, both for the occupation of the soils, and to ensure that every doctor can assume the responsibility of a diagnostic and epidemiological garrison. It also commits the Government to monitor and possibly intervene in order to lower the price of swabs throughout the national territory, to prevent the cost of swabs from continuing - unfortunately still happens today, Minister - to create a violation of Article 32 of the Constitution and to determine a differentiation between those who can afford the buffer, therefore the cost of diagnosis on their state of health, and those who cannot afford it. The fact remains that for large families, however, it becomes an economic bleed. Otherwise it will not be possible to slow down the rate of spread of the infection, with direct prejudice to public health and serious consequences on the economic and social holding of the country. We must always bear in mind the relationship between cause and effect and never reverse these two elements. We must continue to act, also through primary prevention campaigns, in order to make the buffer a social habit immediately and easily accessible, even in an extemporaneous way, without the need for reservation or bureaucracies, with initiatives as widespread as possible in the squares of the whole country, being understood that all the data must then flow and be usable for public structures and for the Ministry of Health. I therefore urge the Government to honour its commitments quickly, demonstrating with concrete actions that it can effectively counter the pandemic, deploying every organizational capacity and every resource, as well as relying on distance and personal protective devices. In other words, it must be made clear that, as far as monitoring is concerned, this is not just a quantitative matter, Minister, because the effectiveness of the campaign goes through the immediate accessibility of the swabs, the bureaucracy and the low costs. Still a very small notation on the so-called sequencing. The strategic evolution more favorable to SARS-Cov-2 virus turns its evolutionary trajectory towards the maximum diffusion as an opportunistic strategy and not towards a serious clinical course: in reality the virus evolves acquiring increasing capacity for diffusion, not already more and more lethality. In December there were already 4,000 variants: follow the evolution of the virus and understand how mutate is fundamental, even if in Italy we are doing very little and what is being realized is based on episodic initiatives of various laboratories, disconnected from each other. It is therefore clear to me, Minister, that national coordination is needed in this respect. As for vaccines - it has been said and repeated - it is necessary to relaunch, perhaps it is better to say "reface" the vaccination campaign, than it reduces supply difficulties due to inadequate bargaining with the manufacturers. One third of the 27 countries reported insufficient supplies and delays not only impact on the planning of vaccination campaigns, but risk undermining the overall effectiveness of the plan. Let us remember that the large public funds have strongly pushed research: over $90 billion of public funds have been invested in research. Incidentally, it is not irrelevant to note that in mid-August, for example, the company CureVac saw its securities increase by 400 percent in two days. It is therefore incomprehensible, in my opinion, that Western governments have not negotiated trade restrictions and flexibility of time and price, nor put transparency clauses, nor set the conditions for access to the vaccine according to public health criteria, even beyond individual Western countries. I hope that in the context of the informal European Council, too, the Government will press for the European Commission, on the basis of the pandemic situation and the consequent need for public health, to support the derogation from intellectual property rights, as provided for by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) regulations, in order to free up scientific knowledge produced also from large public funds. As an Italian citizen, I expect the Government to be able to honour this commitment as well and, if necessary, be able to take other politically courageous measures, that if they require further sacrifices to the population - where, as it seems, they can also be inevitable in order to counter the new wave pushed by the variations - they still contemplate effective systems of sustenance. There are those who do not see, then, that cutting the virus diffusion chain requires to act at the same time through the use of vaccines and monitoring. In order to operate effectively, however, it is necessary in advance to lower the rate of spread of the virus in order to detect outbreaks and clusters on which to intervene. It is clear, in my opinion, that in an area such as this it makes no sense to recall adequacy and proportionality, i.e. characteristics and criteria appropriate to legal and administrative acts, not operational facts. Minister, I have taken a look at the draft text of the resolution. Personally, although I share other aspects and confirm my confidence in the Government and in you, Minister, in particular, I do not agree with the resolution prepared. They cannot be operational criteria, we must act by every means to achieve the result. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u96	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u97	Mr President, Minister, we have two instruments to combat the pandemic crisis, but also the economic, social, cultural and educational crisis. The first instrument is a rapid and effective vaccination plan, perhaps activating us to promote, as is also written in the resolution, an initiative to start the production of vaccines also on national territory. The second instrument is to take care, at the same time, of the revival of all economic, cultural, commercial, catering, sports and tourist activities, which have been suffering for too long, with significant losses in turnover and jobs. (14.42) (Following SBROLLINI). We must remember, as other colleagues have said, that in the meantime many companies will no longer reopen, because they have already failed. It is therefore necessary to start a pact of coexistence between the fight against the virus and the lives of people, as well as a serious plan of planning between health protection and work, between health protection and school. We certainly need to protect our citizens first of all from the health crisis, but also from the economic crisis. It is for this reason that there is a need for relief, or rather rapid compensation equal to the real loss of turnover. Basically, we have to give all these people some certainty. Improvisation, the stops and go of the past have created only fear and uncertainty. Today is the time to speak certainly, Minister, as you have done, a language of truth, but at the same time a clear language of help, of support for those who are suffering the most from this crisis also from an economic and working point of view, as President Draghi said last week in the Senate Chamber. That is why we must talk about reopenings in safety of all places of culture, sport, tourism, commerce and catering. They are sectors that feed hundreds of thousands of businesses and workers, develop an economy of billions of euros and are essential for social and economic development in and outside Italy. That is why the reopenings in safety are no longer postponed and it is possible to do so with protocols and anti-Covid measures, but we must do it soon. Minister, we certainly ask, first of all, for caution in monitoring the evolution of the epidemiological framework, also because of the different variants of the virus, but at the same time we must promote a permanent technical table of comparison with the Regions and the Provinces. I also think that we must do everything - we have been asking for it for a long time, even as Italy Viva - to keep school activities in presence. We know how much our children, our boys have suffered this year. It is therefore necessary to take care of the well-being of all citizens, of the psychophysical well-being of all. Depression, loneliness, increased drug use, and I add feminicides and violence within the home, are ever-increasing tragedies, also due to the pandemic and economic crisis. We must work and we must also work for this, because alongside health protection we must safeguard the many cases of violence and economic hardship that are breaking out within families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u98	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u99	Mr President, Minister, I believe that this House has a very important, very special task. Scientists do their job and give us certain indications, although not always univocal, as it is normal that it is because we are facing something unknown. For example, when we left - a colleague recalled this - we did not immediately identify the centrality of the mask theme; we considered secondary some issues that today are priority. It is normal, we are faced with the unknown and in front of the unknown we try to identify a road and we do it rigorously. This is the task of science. Then there is the task of those who govern in a condition like that in which you have found yourself in particular, that for this reason has all our closeness and our support and, since last week, a much wider support that I believe could help to face this last phase with a greater solidarity between us, more balance between the political forces and a greater effort not to play the derby of those who want to open and of those who want to close. It's a derby we don't need; we're not in a league match and not even in an international match: we don't have to cheer for Italy or another country; we all have to work together to defeat this virus. Minister, I was lucky enough to take part in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, both in the Committee on Culture and in this House, and the issues we are putting ourselves in this country are all asking them all; they are exactly the same issues, and sometimes our provincialism puts us in a position to look at others by saying that they have resolved, that they have done better, that they have behaved differently, and then find out that the debate is exactly the same because the big issues we are facing are the same. Our societies, which had been structured on the relationship, on mobility, on speed, on movements, have found themselves in front of a small enemy, as in that beautiful film in which Merlin - I don't know if you remember - turns into viruses and defeats the great dragon, because the small virus is much stronger and much more powerful than a dragon or a tiger. This is our situation. And in this situation, what is the fundamental task for this House? Give directions and priorities to find balance points. We are very much concerned - and rightly so - with economics, and we know that there are realities that cannot remain closed for a long time. In the face of these realities we respond with an important package of refreshments. We have, we try to respond economically. Then there are functional aspects: when you ask what is the difference between the openings of the restaurants at noon and in the evening, the answer is obvious, if you do not want to animate controversy. The restaurant at noon has a practical function, people work and somewhere have to eat, because not everyone can go home or bring lunch to the office, but there are also those who move. The function of the restaurant in the evening is a convivial function, to which we all hold, we do not condemn it absolutely, but to which we can give up if, on the other side of the scale, there is the protection of health. Of course, we must then refresh those who perform that function. There is, however, a different theme, which concerns places of culture and school. In this case, these are not activities that can be refreshed economically and they do not only have a convivial function. I stress this: there is nothing wrong with the convivial function and it is clear that the school and theater also have a convivial function, but not only. They are a primary element, they are an indispensable function of being together and they also have an indispensable function to fight a virus like this, which is fought with education, culture, understanding of what is ahead and also with the construction of hope in the future that awaits us. Hence, the function that theatre, music, school, traveling entertainment and cultural aggregation sites can provide is also to educate virtuous behaviors, which serve to combat the virus. We will fight the virus better if we are capable of virtuous behavior and if we behave in an appropriate way, not because we fear fine and sanction or because we fear that there are forces of order around the corner, but because we have internalized such behaviors; this is the primary function of culture. I therefore believe that, in the current debate on these issues, there is a great sensitivity of yours, even personal, and I therefore believe that, with great rigour, attention, seriousness and prudence, we will have to try to understand when and how - but as soon as possible - we will be able to open up. Perhaps we can do so wherever possible, perhaps in the areas of the country where this can be done with greater security or in the larger spaces and which can be better organized. However, we must reopen these spaces, open our schools, even our high schools, perhaps precisely because the vaccines for teachers are coming, and open theaters, cinemas, places of music and aggregation. One of its main functions must be returned to the country. Let us not forget that these people are our best allies, they are women and men who in life have chosen to carry out a task that surely is their job and their source of income - there is nothing wrong with it - but they also decided, in calculating how to commit their lives, that, apart from the economic entrance, there was also something else that moved them, that is, the will to return and provide something to others. Minister, you have the very important task of protecting health. I am absolutely not a person who dramats, but I think that today, together with the obvious and dramatic danger of the virus, there is also another danger to health, which concerns precisely the loneliness and the need, in particular of the youngest, children, boys and girls, to reconstruct capacity for relationship and sociality. Both these elements must be kept in balance on the balance, with rigour and seriousness, as we have tried to do in other difficult moments of openness and closure, as we have tried to do by making more and more different territories and as we have tried to do by opening up the possibility, for some people, to meet and to see each other also during the closing periods. Within this balance we must find space and feel priority. I shall conclude as I have begun: the function of this House is to make the world of workers of culture and entertainment workers understand that politics believes that they are, more than the economy and together with health, a priority for this country. This is my appeal and it is the reflection that we have taken on in these hours as a Group of the Democratic Party. This is also the position that the Senate Education Commission has unanimously expressed today. I believe that this is one of the key commitments that we must make in the process of exiting the pandemic for the next few weeks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Garnero Santanché is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u100	Mr President, Minister, today I listened very carefully to your speech, but I must tell you that we are very dissatisfied with your information, because in fact there has been no information. You have extended a lot on what is the team - as you have called it - of vaccine workers; you have extended a lot in saying how much the municipalities, all of them, are ready and superorganized in logistics and with the vaccination team, but you have forgotten to say three fundamental things. First of all, you didn't tell us when, because you didn't tell us about the vaccines in terms of dates and you didn't tell us when they will arrive and you know very well that for business activities time is not an unimportant determinant and the time that has been lost is already very much. So he didn't tell us when, or what will be the vaccines that can be used, because we don't know yet. Therefore, it is precisely the information that Italians must have in order to see the light. It is useless to talk about anything: if they do not arrive and they do not make vaccines, we cannot talk about anything else. You know very well, Minister, that vaccines are not only for what is naturally the primary issue, namely the defence of life (and today you have listed the number of deaths not only in our country, but in many countries). It is above all a question of competitiveness. If you guys keep wasting all this time, we're gonna leave last. You will not have missed that Britain has already made millions of vaccines and that yesterday the Prime Minister said that Britain will soon come out of the pandemic and return to normal life. You can say, if you don't look like a blasphemy in your super-European government (and I say it with the cards in order, because we have a leader who is in Europe and very well, being the president of the third European family), that Britain has managed to get the doses and make the vaccines because maybe it is out of Europe? Has it occurred to you to be able to criticize, rather than boast, as you have done in the past, for how great this European Union is and for the qualitative leap that had been made, because at last there was the centralization of the purchase that was seen as a step forward absolutely to be emphasized, as you have done on several public occasions? And what do you have to say today about that contract signed by Von der Leyen, in which even the less aware person to sign contracts would have foreseen penalties in case the pharmaceutical companies failed to comply with the commitments they had made? Instead, we are all victims here today, we are among those who are suspended, because we know nothing. You came here, you spoke for forty minutes, you told us everything and more, but in fact we still don't know when and how many vaccines will come. That is why I express our great dissatisfaction. Then let me say that we don't see any discontinuity. Even today all the newspapers in Italy talk about the opening of restaurants in the yellow areas until 10 pm. We tabled an amendment, signed by Senators La Russa and Totaro, and yesterday in the Commission - heard, heard - was suspended. Stop, therefore, telling lies to Italians, because even giving false hopes is a huge responsibility that you are assuming. I will end by appealing, Minister Hope: since there is no discontinuity, because everything works as before, at least have the courage to send away Commissioner Arcuri. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u101	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u102	Mr President, coherence has always been the polar star of Forza Italia's political action. Since the beginning of the pandemic, President Silvio Berlusconi has appealed to responsibility and offered his contribution, the contribution of our movement, to overcome a dramatic crisis. Mr Hope, all the more so, what we said before, when we were in opposition, becomes for us, today that we sit next to you in those benches, an imperative: to do quickly. It means having the concern to secure the Italians, to vaccinate them; it means running. Let's give up on trial in the past. We are not interested in remembering errors and omissions, also stressing the macroscopic shortcomings - some really resounding - on the front of the contrast to the epidemic. Surely we cannot, nor do we want, persevere in the mistakes of the past. So, Minister Hope, you really change step, you really do it and you do it with us. At the narration of the "Close" to be sure, we counter that of the "Open" in security. To the enthusiastic tale of the "we are first in Europe for vaccinations" we counter the reality of a country that must be able to have sufficient doses and to administer them immediately. [[Applause]] We expect you to constantly share with Parliament today our actual situation, listen and finally apply our proposals. You can vaccinate 500,000 people a day and you can, in fact, you have to do it. It's possible, we've proven it. Forza Italia presented its strategic vaccination plan a few hours ago, which it offers to the Government through its ministers. We must put in place a vaccination team involving military health, public hospitals, accredited hospitals and laboratories, general and occupational medicine doctors, pediatricians and pharmacies. By applying our plan, with all the forces in the field, we will be able to reach a broad coverage of the population by August 1, 2021, equal to almost 80 percent of Italians immunized. They need not miracles but operational facilities six days a week for twelve hours of service. He said that we need seriousness and rigour: we would miss it, but they will no longer have to result in terrorism by alleged scientists and in panic sown by the turn watch on television. [[Applause]] We've always asked for one voice, and we've asked for it from day one. We are happy to have finally heard the announcement of the figure of a single spokesperson. However, let us move from words to deeds and, therefore, let us wait for this voice finally to be given a face. Minister Hope, we are also aware of the commitment, prudence and caution you have mentioned, required by the management of this pandemic. However, we are convinced - and this has always been - that there are two types of approach to cope with it: following its effects, putting patches here and there - as it was in the management of the previous government - or be punctual, with targeted interventions, to anticipate the effects of the pandemic also in the light of the new variations. The challenge is to bring health protection into line with the need for a recovery, including social recovery, which can no longer be postponed, especially as regards the need to have an immediate impact on employment levels. I am thinking - for example - of measures differentiated according to the levels of risk in the various areas of the country. The trend of contagions is not the same throughout Italy: Rieti is not Rome, Campobasso is not Brescia. [[Applause]] 85% of the infection is concentrated in ten regions. So, where you vacate more the Covid-19 starts to go back and you can - you have to - think about going back, to return to a semblance of normality, even reopening the bars and restaurants until curfew. In those areas where there is a higher level of risk, the priority must be to vaccinate more, even with a higher number of doses. Minister, responsibility also means recovering those who have been left behind. The pandemic obviously put under stress the hospital structures that, struggling with the Covid - it has to be said - have neglected patients with other diseases even serious. 48 percent of people stopped being treated during the Covid period; 20 million diagnostic tests were postponed; 14 million blood tests, 3 million cancer checks and 600,000 surgeries were deleted. Of course, these numbers won't escape you. Minister, our confidence is not in time, but that of the Italians is and, therefore, should not be betrayed at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u103	Senator Marin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u104	Mr President, Minister Hope, today I have the personal pleasure of being able to share with you, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group - Sardinian action party, issues of fundamental importance. We are all aware that there is no law and there is no provision that is perfect. Each proposal can be improved and constructive criticism is important contributions to the strategic functionality of the implementations. Now is the right time for the convenience of the majority forces to abandon ideological and harmful paths to leave space and give wide breath to targeted interventions that lead to an active parliamentary function so that it is perceived on the territory as a will and commitment to the resolution of this evil event that is conditioning all aspects of our existence. Minister, the parliamentary system needs confidence. As a Member of Parliament, I am here to ask you to re-evaluate the action paradigms, taking into account the suggestions provided by our work, implementing targeted organisational measures to ensure the most effective implementation, not only by ensuring appropriate and limited restriction measures compatible with the criticalities of the different territories, but also by activating initiatives to contain any possible collateral drama. In particular, the psychological discomfort that emerged overpoweringly has not been correctly framed to date. Minister, look at me, please! I need you to trust me. The situation sees a general worsening of health conditions for all morbidity. The excess mortality of 2020 for other causes is over 13 percent and an estimated one million new cases with mental discomfort. The epidemic cannot only be a health epidemic because the serious economic repercussions that act as a trigger are unprecedented. People experience insomnia, generalized anxiety, panic attacks, agoraphobia or fear of getting out of the protected environment. In children, obsessive compulsive disorder prevails, such as taking a shower at every minimal contact, even within the family itself, for fear of transmitting the virus to grandparents or other members of the house. There is a strong incidence of severe depressive symptoms. The calamity that has struck us has certainly dislated pathologies, but we must be very careful in defining psychiatric patients people who have suffered real mourning: loss of parents or children, people with lives inserted in a context of death, people who had chosen to live as an independent and find themselves recluse to the homes without the possibility of interaction with the world, become suddenly dangerous. These people are not mentally ill, Minister: they are souls who are afraid of a real condition and not generated by underlying pathologies. Minister Hope, as a psychologist, I have always dealt with mental health and I feel obliged to inform you that these souls cannot be followed by mental health centers, like schizophrenic creatures, drug addicts or otherwise suffering from other psychotic disorders. We must be free from the prison of bad information, which requires succubs. These healthy people, affected by real bereavement or mourning, understood as loss of their health or activity - it is a survival tool for the whole family - need a welcoming place, that is not the center of mental health: it must be specialist clinics in charge of psychologists and psychiatrists of high training, able to formulate the diagnosis and all the therapeutic path, from immediate support to cure, to healing, because here it is not chronicity. On October 10, the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella declared that a fundamental role for the support of people with psychic disease continues to be played by families, frequently burdened with a difficult management from the economic and relational point of view, and that therefore the role of the institutions becomes important, so that no one is left alone and everyone is allowed access to the most appropriate assistance throughout the national territory. He then went on to say that mental health is a right that must be guaranteed to all, protecting and supporting those who cannot represent themselves. We must stand by those who fight against psychic suffering, so that everyone is guaranteed a life of inclusion and overcoming prejudice and discrimination. These are the wise words, Mr Hope. Politics must deal with this issue with responsibility, with an obligation not only health, but also ethical, moral and tactical. [[Applause]] Even in this House, Minister, with great probability, a good percentage has had to do with these issues: some closely, others farther away, others have experienced it on their own. I conclude, Minister, with the words of President Mario Draghi, reported on 17 February: On the basis of the experience of the past few months, we must open a wide-ranging debate on the reform of our health care. The central point is to strengthen and redesign territorial health [[Applause]] , by creating a strong network of basic services (community homes, community hospitals, consultors, mental health centres, centres of proximity against health poverty) Let these words be a spur for constructive cooperation aimed at the well-being and protection of citizens, of all citizens, as set out in Article 32. Thank you, Minister Hope, and greet you cordially. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u105	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u106	Mr President, Minister, Senators and fellow Senators, I have asked to speak in order to reaffirm in this House that it cannot, nor must there be any discontinuity with the work of the previous Government. The rapid spread of the variants of the Covid-19 virus, characterized - as is known - by a greater contagiousity, requires to maintain the rigor and continue on the same line. In different areas of Italy there are high criticalities, also and especially in hospital and health facilities. Brescia already talks about the third wave and it was necessary to activate an enhanced orange area, with the closure of schools of every order and grade. Even in Molise the situation is critical. Currently we know that about 30% of infections in Italy are due to the English variant, which - it is estimated - by the middle of March could be predominant throughout the country. It is therefore desirable that we continue with caution and maintain the line of rigour and the extension of the measures of the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is certain that the government's action will have to continue to run along two tracks: the sanitary one of the rigorous application of the necessary containment measures, in conjunction with the implementation of the vaccination campaign, and the economic one of the indispensable supply of refreshments for the economic activities in distress; eventuality for which, before the dissension of the recent crisis of government, the competent ministers were working on the text of the so-called decree of restorative 5 and was already approved by the Parliament the budgetary deviation of 32 billion euros. With regard to vaccinations, it is necessary to press the pharmaceutical companies and to reach an immediate agreement with them that, by safeguarding, within reasonable limits, their commitment to research and production, at the same time allows an increase not only at national level, but also worldwide of the production capacity of vaccine to support vaccination campaigns that, reasonably fast, can immunize large quantities of population, reducing the circulation and spread of the virus. To do this, we need to act now because it is known that, globally, we will need billions of doses of vaccine that patented companies will never be able to produce on their own in good time. For this reason an agreement is needed for the start of new production plants in Italy and in other countries and, since this process will not be possible from today to tomorrow as it takes time, it is necessary to act immediately. Today more than ever we must continue with the line of rigour and it can only be reasonably supported by everyone. Those who do not want to do so probably just want to continue to do political propaganda to the detriment of the Italians. It has been said that who can, must return to life. I believe that we must not think only of ourselves, but that it is still necessary to remain united and make a joint collective effort to get out of the serious crisis that we are all experiencing. It is not just a community pact: it must also be a generational pact. As the President of the Council, Mario Draghi, has already said during the programmatic statements made in this House, we must consider that our mission as Italians is to deliver a better and fairer country to children and grandchildren. The gaze towards future generations is nothing more than the deep sense of the principle of sustainable development, according to which we should meet our needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It cannot therefore be separated by greater respect for our environment, which must be made healthier and less polluted. In this regard, I note that in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan the indispensable and necessary combination of environment and health, often denied or underestimated, takes more form, definition and consistency. I thank you, Minister Speranza, and Senator Sileri, former Deputy Minister for Health, for having accepted integrations to this plan that would go more and more in this direction, providing in the context of measures to strengthen territorial medicine interventions of health, environment and climate, of public ecological health, also through the introduction of the figure of environmental doctors, real sentinel doctors able to promptly warn the signals coming from the territory, putting us in a position to adequately address the health emergencies resulting from environmental emergencies and vice versa. It is no longer possible to go further with the unlimited exploitation of our environment. We must repair the hydrogeological fragility of our territory. Soil consumption and global warming must be stopped. We need to end the reclamation of contaminated sites and reduce climate emissions by bringing them back to more reasonable limit values. It is undeniable that the Italian citizens have made considerable efforts and it is equally true that, after a year of the beginning of this terrible pandemic, they are tired and exhausted, both economically and morally, but this must not make us lower our guard. Now more than ever it is important to respect the rules and rules, which must also be guaranteed by the capillarity of controls by the Forces of Order and, where necessary, by the imposition of sanctions. Every citizen at this time must act for the common good. The vaccine was also defined, in the opinion of the National Committee for Bioethics of the Presidency of the Council, as a common good. This term - the common good - is still pronounced too little: instead it should be kept in mind and become an end to the actions we daily do, the common good. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u109	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since there is a point on which we would need a discussion with the Minister as a group leader for the presentation of the resolution, I would like to ask whether it is possible to suspend the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u110	If there are no objections, I therefore suspend the sitting. At the resumption, Senator Rotolo's speech will close the debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 15.24 p.m. and resumed at 15.54 p.m.) The session is resumed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have been told that an agreement has been reached at the Conference of Leaders and, for this reason, I give up speaking, if not to express my consent to the information that Minister Hope gave us a few hours ago. The news coming from the front, from the real country, from Europe and from the rest of the world still require us to take an attitude of extreme attention. It is February and peaks are expected. There is even a study by the Bill Gates Foundation that provides, even for our country, the risk of finding us at 20-25,000 contagions, if the vaccination plan is not resolved in a short time and if it does not start. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and say to all my colleagues that this is not the time to split up. The pandemic, which has become syndemia, is underway and there is the risk, as the Minister reminded us, that the RT index exceeds the critical threshold of 1%. Thank you, Minister, we all feel represented by you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u112	I declare closed the debate on the Minister of Health's communications. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, and No 2 by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh, Fantetti and Unterberger. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u113	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators and senators who have spoken and I would just like to express their views, which I am in favour of resolution No 2 and in favour of resolution No 1, tabled by the Brothers of Italy Group, on the commitments referred to in paragraphs 8 and 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u114	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u117	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hope, we have a new government, but the debate remains the same: on the one hand, there are the open-minded, those who object that we die more with the economic crisis than with the health crisis; on the other, there are the rigorists, who remember that with the virus we are not joking. On the one hand, there are those of the discipline unique throughout the territory; on the other, those that are to maintain the current differentiations between the Regions. The novelty is that everyone is now part of the same Government and must find a synthesis; they must find it not only in fact, but also in words. It is to be hoped that no more press conferences will be held before the Minister's intervention, thus respecting President Draghi's request to make less talk and more facts, which obviously chose continuity with what has been done so far, not only for the reconfirmation of the Minister of Health, but also for the extension of measures. Unfortunately, we must continue on the path of prudence, because the news of these weeks is far from good. The variations are growing, especially the English one, much more contagious, and the South African one. I mean, we don't know what's gonna happen in the next few weeks. The only thing we know is that our hope goes from vaccines. It was therefore good for President Draghi to put it as a primary issue, discussing with European colleagues the possibility of forcing Big Pharmas to share the patent to produce the vaccine in plants scattered throughout Europe. We need to look at the Scottish model, while administering the first dose of vaccines to ensure protection from the most acute forms of the disease. Of course, if Europe had better managed the game with the pharmaceutical companies, we would have a better picture today. And the same goes for Italy, which only now thinks about the possibility of having its own production of vaccines. I think that now we need a completely different approach: not to be stuck in the debate on the coming weeks, but to work on the strategy for the coming months and years. Unfortunately, if we do not change step towards the environment and especially animals, it will not be the last pandemic. On the economy, the topic on which Italy must reflect is the passport for the vaccinated, to save the next tourist season. We know that Greece, Spain, Portugal and Malta press for a vaccination certificate to ensure free movement. You are right, Minister Hope, this is not yet the time to lower your guard, but it is important that standards are calibrated according to risk. Since last April we have always asked for differentiated measures, because they cannot be treated in the same way as different situations. I am therefore surprised that there are Presidents of the Region who demand equal measures throughout Italy. Instead, we think that even more surgery should be done, limited to individual cities, countries and valleys, just as it is now in South Tyrol. The countries in which the South African variant was found have been isolated and there is no way in or out without a buffer. The measures, besides being proportionate, must appear linear in the eyes of the citizens; in short, not as in those Regions where primary schools have been closed, but meanwhile the bars and restaurants have remained open, with the streets of shopping crowded. As a general guideline, we must do our utmost to open up primary school and children, to put parents and especially women in a position to work. Therefore, rapid swabs are needed for pupils and an acceleration on vaccinations of all school staff. As President Draghi has promised, in the future the new measures will have to be communicated clearly and sufficiently in advance, otherwise, as happened in the mountains, the economic activities will have to manage two different losses: that of the missed receipts and that of the expenses for the missed reopenings. In addition, every initiative must include an automatic compensation system, as the Presidents of the Region are asking. That is, a change of pace and a qualitative leap of the various instruments, in order to really accompany citizens and businesses in overcoming the emergency. This is also a way out of the debate between rigorists and aperturists, a confrontation that makes no sense and that risks only not to benefit either the economy or health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u120	Mr Causin (Europeans-MAIE-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Minister, with his communication, has once again represented this Parliament as a framework which is far from reassuring. The increased ability to transmit the virus, the increase in the RT index in some regions, the manifestation of new variants of which we know little the danger and the speed of transmission and the lack of availability of vaccines are all objective elements that lead us to say that the emergency is far from over. The problem has become structural and Italy, together with other countries, first and foremost European, must face a determination, in continuity with what the previous Government has also done, which imposes measures that are urgent and also tough. Minister, forgive me for the pun: hope, understood as trust that a problem will solve, is no longer a feeling that we can afford. After twelve months of emergency, the institutions need to address the issue and offer the country a perspective, both on the ground of the health response and the economic response. I ask myself and ask you, Minister, can you do more about the traceability of the virus? Of course I do. As has been mentioned in many interventions, in twelve months we know more, vaccines are faster and more precise, they can be administered to certain categories of people. Can you do more on the vaccination plan? Of course we do, but we must not run the risk of saying that we cannot vaccinate, because our health care is not able to do so. We cannot vaccinate, Minister, because we do not have the availability of vaccines. From this point of view, Italy must put in place all possible and practicable resources so that it can proceed quickly to have the availability of vaccines that our territorial health can administer to millions of people in a few weeks. Finally, there is the economic perspective. It is also necessary to proceed quickly with answers, refreshments and admissions. I would remind you that we have decided for 45 days on a budgetary deviation and we have not yet made the measure which provides for the rest of the budget. Health is an inviolable right provided for in the Constitution, but the State also has a duty to guarantee personal and economic security to the millions of activities and people who constitute the human and social capital of the country. Minister, for this reason the Europeanist-MAIE-Democratic Centre Group welcomes your communications and announces its vote in favour of the majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u123	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 February we celebrated the first National Day of Health, Social-Health, Social-Assistance and Volunteering Professionals. It is the day of white shirts, established by law and strongly wanted by us parliamentarians and first of all by the President of the Senate Alberti Casellati, whom I thank for his commitment. Minister, since 20 February 2020, when a young anesthesiologist discovered at the hospital in Codogno the first patient affected by Covid-19, it has been a year, this has upset our lives, our sociality and our economy. A small virus has brought the whole world to its knees and since then, in just eight months, scientists in the world have arrived at a vaccine against Covid-19. What seemed like a dream a year ago is now reality and we have to bow down to science. Now you have to vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate. It seems like a race against time, because as the virus continues to circulate producing variants, we have to be faster than he is to vaccinate. In the resolution we are about to vote on, we are talking about the centrality of the vaccination campaign and we are happy about it. Moreover, it is a priority of the new Dragon Government, which only a week ago asked the Chambers for confidence, as you, Minister, recalled. In countries such as the United Kingdom and Israel, where vaccination is ahead, the collapse of infections is scientifically proven. I would like to highlight three aspects which concern the vaccine coverage of our population: the ethical-political aspect, the organizational aspect and the third aspect of production. When, as now, we do not have enough vaccines, we are still forced to make choices about the priorities of the people to be vaccinated. Politics is made up of choices, sometimes difficult ones, which are highly ethical and must be taken by political forces. We are pleased that a point has been accepted in the resolution concerning the assurance of an order of priority in access to vaccination to guarantee priority to all fragile categories and their caregivers. A lot of people were waiting for this. Minister, we need to revise the list of 8 February, which excludes certain pathologies. We must review it together with Parliament. The choice of priorities is a national plan and cannot be entrusted to the Regions, because the protection of the health of all individuals, as you often recall, Minister, is guaranteed by Article 32 of the Constitution. This consideration leads me to the second aspect, of an organizational nature. The declaration of the resolution on the rapid implementation of the vaccination campaign in a homogeneous manner throughout the national territory is very important. I am sorry that Minister Gelmini has left, but it is necessary to go faster in the Regions than the doses already delivered, because there is still too much gap between them: we go from 55 to 23 percent of doses administered (compared to those already delivered, of course). Moreover, the technical table of comparison with the Regions on the parameters of evaluation of the epidemiological risk, established by the new Government and foreseen by the resolution, must take care of three elements. I am thinking first of all of the homogeneity of active surveillance in the territories - as many colleagues have said before me - with swabs in the schools, as well as the vaccination of teachers. At present, with the fear and concern of variants, the swabs are once again borne by families and citizens, with reference to their costs, as was said before. Access to the buffer is also a guarantee of care, as provided for in the Constitution. Secondly, sequencing of the viral genome is necessary, activity in Italy not yet sufficiently supported in case of variants. It is probably necessary to review the constant K to calculate the exponentiality of the contagions. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the proposal (which we have already done) to integrate the CTS with different competences, from physicists to microbiologists; in the Commission that I am honored to chair we are listening to different professionalities and it is very enriching and important, at this stage of the epidemic, to hear their opinions. On the basis of the exponential speed of the virus you can immediately close the red areas, as in part you are doing, and give quick refreshments. Presumably, even in this particularly difficult phase, it would be good to avoid closing entire Regions, isolating only the areas with the greatest presence of variants. One final point concerns the production of vaccines. We have long been supporting the need for Italy and Europe to increase the production capacity of vaccines, to search for sites and to support industries. You, Minister, have said that well before and we are pleased that this point has been put in black and white in the motion for a resolution; an Italian production of vaccines is very important at this stage of the epidemic. Similarly, we are waiting for any authorisation of other vaccines by the EMA to prevent a European State from taking isolated initiatives. I believe that Europe as a whole must continue on its path. It is therefore necessary to vaccinate and vaccinate, to close the zones with a greater variational influence promptly and to support immediately and congruly the economic activities in suffering. For these reasons, the Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I. It will vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution, with a message of hope to the people, namely that in four or five months' time we will be able to get out of the nightmare, and with the assurance that our commitment will be maximum, because we will never be caught unprepared again. This is the best way to express gratitude to white shirts and to honor the memory of victims and their relatives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u126	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to socialise with you a point that came to me as I listened to the Minister's speech and which leads me to thank my party and my President for holding us to the opposition, because objectively I do not envy some of my colleagues in the current majority today, who will have to come up with a consensus intervention in the face of these communications, since it is really difficult to imagine what they can appeal to. Minister, in the first words of your speech you said that you came today to have the suggestions of all Members - very well - and then you even promised to take part in the work of the Commissions in the coming days, which is historic and extraordinary. I respect and thank our President of the Commission, but we have been waiting for the representatives of AIFA for three months and have not yet come. Yesterday we held the hearing of the Higher Institute of Health, which sent a researcher, Minister. So if you come to the Commission, we'll put on the music and call a band, so I promise you we'll have a party. Minister, what should you have made available to us today, one year after the start of the emergency? Precise information, for example, on the number of daily swabs we will make in the next few days, until the end of the pandemic. Minister, we are still largely under the number of swabs needed; we have new technologies at our disposal, thanks to which we could make 500,000 or 600,000 a day (the ones we would need); we need to know when we will be able to make them, since we are still making 200,000 a day. What are the home care protocols? Minister, one year after the pandemic explosion, I am not yet available to the doctors of general medicine and to the regions ministerial protocols for the treatment and treatment of the various stages of the Covid. If there are - I don't know them, but I admit I can make a mistake - send them to us. I assure you that several regional councillors are also calling for these protocols to be available. When will the vaccines arrive, Minister? He gave absolutely apodictic statements, which I will list later, but not to make controversy. We need to know when the vaccines will come and what they will be. We have learned from you that we are dealing with contagious variants even to the extent of 40% more than the original virus. The article of a WHO member (I do not remember his name, but which you, Minister, know perfectly well) has appeared today, urging us to proceed with mass vaccination. In fact, we need to speed up the vaccination campaign as much as possible in order to anticipate what is likely to be the replacement of the original virus with the variants. So when will these blessed vaccines arrive and what action does it intend to take to achieve this goal? When will 70-80 percent of the population be vaccinated? We need a timing that, as my colleague Garnero Santanchè mentioned, serves economic activities and the country to understand how, where and when you can - perhaps - start again. It's a time-dependent problem like heart attack: if we don't get there as soon as possible, countless activities will never recover. We therefore need to know when we will be able to vaccinate 70 to 80% of the population, as it serves our productive activities and our economic planning. Finally, Minister, we need to know whether you intend to maintain Arcuri or not. At least you have to tell us that. You have mentioned the Commissioner's structure a couple of times and you cannot tell us that it is not up to you: perhaps it will not depend on you alone and perhaps you will have to cooperate, but tell us if you intend to keep Arcuri in charge of the Commissioner's structure, because we are terrified of it. Minister, allow me to say something else (as always, there is nothing personal). We came to make the count of the dead of others, but it is not that, as they say, miscommon half-gaudio, also because we are in the front row compared to these parameters. He has come to tell us more banality (forgive me, Minister): the light at the end of the tunnel and the need to work in the same direction are topics that can serve as a door to Porta and other broadcasts, but not in a communication to Parliament. Your 40-minute speech could have narrowed to ten without these things. He came to us to make claims that we have to cover the elders. Yeah, that's great, but how? When? We need to cover the exposed. Good, but how? When? You're a minister. He has come here to declare imperatives always categorical for others, such as the need to comply with restrictive measures. Mr Minister, of course we must respect them, but after a year the Italians can no longer do so, so much so that, for an absolutely physiological effect, these restriction measures work less and less and lose their effectiveness. In the end, people organize themselves and work, because somehow you have to get out of this mental loop that also begins to involve the psychophysical balance of our fellow citizens. So just keep saying that we all have to stand on the same side and we all have to respect our duties; the first one to respect your duties is you, Minister. The Italians respect their duties, indeed they respect them! Minister, he continued to spread the usual slogans, empty rhetoric and change: the polemics disorient the citizens; Italy does not resign to the reduction of doses. Oibò, I'd say. Stop. We need to become aware. Minister, you accredit yourself and dowry to the new government the results of your absolutely bankrupt Dicastery. We have the world record of deaths on the sample of 100,000 inhabitants and we are third for the lethality of the Covid-19 in our national territory. We have the worst result of reducing GDP on the European scene. You dowry to the new government the greatest failure in republican history, but not for you; it is clear that you are a collector of a series of responsibilities of the Higher Institute of Health and its Ministry, which continues to lie on the pandemic level. Even today, Urbani continues to lie pandemically. Stop. You have an objective responsibility that requires a different responsibility. Therefore, Minister, we still respect you, but you save us 30 to 40% of this aural argument of which we sincerely want and can easily do without. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u129	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again we thank you for your presence in this House, in continuity also in the new Government, and we wish you every success. Last February 20 we remembered with the National Day of all health workers, socio-sanitary and socio-assistant, a year of Covid from the identification of the first patient in Codogno. Once again, I renew in this House my thanks for all the women and men who have been working with professionalism and a spirit of self-denial for over a year in order to protect the fundamental right of health enshrined in the Constitution. We have to thank them so much not only with one day, but every day. Minister, unlike a year ago, we have different perspectives because many things have changed: the prospect of having a vaccine that takes us out of the pandemic was a gift of science and research. However, we also have other governmental conditions, as some colleagues said earlier: the majority has now changed, we have a large majority, created after the famous crisis in the dark with clear indications from President Mattarella, who told us to find units of intent to prevent the epidemic that still afflicts us today, as is clear from the data you have provided us. The united policy must decide first and foremost for the health of the citizens, but also for the economic maintenance. As we know very well, we have all the categories exhausted. Minister, you mentioned other countries; I believe that comparing our situation with other countries, not only at European level, but also at world level, is important. We need to figure out where we're going because the virus is global and it's spreading all over the world. You have also given messages of trust and I believe that this is right to calm the spirits a bit and avoid falling into the oblivion of negativity. We have to believe in research and science that in just one year has given us a vaccine and I know that it is also studying to have vaccines under the age of eighteen; another great problem of our boys. I know there are studies going on, and I hope that they will come as soon as possible to reassure us. So we have a vaccine, which is the only possible weapon to get out of the pandemic. We also have other good news, but we must find solutions, which I have also seen written in the motion for a resolution, in order to have more doses and try in every way to become self-sufficient. Remember that we didn't even have a mask produced in Italy, didn't we have medical gases and many other things? Now we have to organize ourselves because, in addition to giving an important boost and development to the pharmaceutical industry, we have to be self-sufficient. If, in fact, the virus, with all the variants that are attacking us, will still remain in our country we need to equip ourselves. So it is very good that our President-in-Office of the Council, when he is with the other European leaders tomorrow, also finds a solution in order to be able to produce vaccines on our territory. We have industries that can do this very well; it is true that it will take time for conversion, but I believe that there is also a chance of doing so within a shorter period of time than they are telling us. I think we really need to regroup. There is another important issue: having a unique communication, as has been stated by everyone, including the media and journalists. We need a single voice that can say things as they are. You said so yourself, Minister. We need to be reassured, but in order to do so we need to be sure of what is said. Citizens cannot hear once of one kind and once of another; even our scientists must use a little more attention in this regard. Another fundamental and no less important issue is that all national indications are transposed by the regions in a uniform and homogeneous manner. There's too many differentiations. We have, for example, regions that have very well organized themselves, they have all the vaccineers, but they do not have the doses; we have regions that have the doses, but they do not have the vaccineers. This is also a problem of the organization of the Regions. It is obvious that there must be national guidelines, but they must be followed at every point; and I am also referring to regions with special status. Since the pandemic is a matter of urgency for the whole country and is an extraordinary emergency event, all must be standardized. There is therefore a need for better organisation in vaccinations. Minister, you have told us that the Plan has been strengthened. The first phase seems to have passed, because we have vaccinated all healthcare professionals. We are entering the second phase, and in this regard I would ask you very much, Minister, to give priority - as some Members have already said before - to the most fragile groups, those who have the least chance of protecting themselves. Disability is a single category; it is not possible to differentiate for various diseases; all people with fragility and disability must be taken into account together with their caregivers (because they care for them). This must be another issue that we must put to the attention in the second phase. I know there are regions that are already vaccinating disabled people, and I would like all regions to be aligned. When we have more doses - I hope so many more will come soon - we will have to get rid of the categories and vaccinate ourselves all, independently, without age requirements and anything else. The sooner we are vaccinated, the sooner the economy will recover, because we know that the economy is linked in an indissoluble way to health. We must keep our attention high and intervene immediately - because the economy is important - with the refreshments to be given to the categories that are really suffering. We have many categories, not only of an economic type but also of a cultural type, which are suffering and are asking us to decide as soon as possible. High attention must also be paid to the social and psychological state of our country. We see that kids in schools and families are starting to splash, because we need to see the light at the end of the tunnel. That is what we must do as a policy. We are a country that can do so much. Now that politically we have also found a unity of intent, I believe that we should really give the best of ourselves, certainly with attention to the weakest and the most fragile and those who have the least possibilities and the least privileges. (16.30) (Follows BOLDRINI). Minister, the majority is now wider and we all want to help, as we have also seen in this motion for a resolution. Therefore, even the PD, which has always been responsible, still today declares to give it confidence by voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u132	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his timely communications and, of course, for the work he has done so far and for what he will be able to do from here on. However, I would also like to thank him for reminding us today in this House of the spirit in which we need to face this very complicated new phase for the country and I would like to say for the rest of the world. I am referring to that unitary effort - the Minister quoted President Draghi's words - to that cohesion which has probably been lacking in recent months, and it is not exactly the spirit that has breathed in this House (and not only in this House) at the stage behind us. It is therefore right that we take on a commitment that goes exactly in this direction, to let us cross by this unitary afflate. Political forces must do so and this feeling must also cross that relationship between the different institutional levels that need - as they say - mutual and loyal cooperation. We also need the cooperation of our citizens and our fellow citizens, as the Minister recalled, without which the battle against the pandemic is almost impossible and we must record the great sense of responsibility of Italians and Italians in these difficult months. However, in order to do all this, Minister, we need to record a language in the meantime, I would like to say a code of conduct; I am talking about the political forces, particularly the leaders that those political forces are leading; then we also need to record the basic content to be shared and I quote three (of course I am doing it for lack of time, the points could be many more). The first is as follows: by quoting your words, Minister, you said that the truth must be said even when it is uncomfortable. I think that this is exactly the responsibility we have at the head, not to create false expectations when we communicate politically and institutionally, when we drive our messages in the direction of the Italians; we must tell the truth because the dramatic European and world landscape that you have described on the ground of the epidemiological framework requires us to do so. This is what the speed race that we must not risk losing, because we must arrive before and for a moment before the silent virus; moreover, the situation of the variants so alarming cannot make us lower our guard. I say this because, in recent months, as my colleague, Mrs Unterberger, who preceded me, there has been another debate from which we must finally get out; it has seemed (and, in my opinion, Minister, it still seems) that in the public debate, in the public and political debate we are divided between "open tourists" and rigorists, as if there were here in this House, in a piece of political field, someone who does not want to return to normality and someone else who instead pushes to do so. This is a false representation, because that principle of caution that informed the Government's initiative that preceded the current one must be exactly the principle that must guide the action of this Government as well. It seems to me that this is happening and I am personally very pleased with it. The line of caution, therefore, of rigour, which is the basis of the protection of public health and, therefore, also of effectiveness in the fight against the pandemic. Enough with this war between "aperturists" and rigorists. We need to get back to normal, but in complete safety. I come now to the only slightly controversial note, Minister, because I also record a new climate and I am pleased, and then national peace must not be confused with a melensous climate, so melensous that it seems fake. In fact, there are differences and it is right to clarify them at the beginning of this new political event in which we have entered. You can no longer observe a situation in which someone decides to stay in the government, but at the same time goes down to the square with the sweatshirt to enlist the crowds and to use instrumentally arguments that must be banned at this moment. [[Applause]] The protests of the restaurateurs, for example, are legitimate, but to those anxieties, to those fears, to those fragility must give a political response, all the more so if you assume the responsibility of the government and this I believe is the spirit that must interest us and concern us in this new affair. Secondly, let us also try here to find a new balance in the public debate. There is a commitment made by the President-in-Office of the Council that goes in the right direction. Every time we find ourselves - and unfortunately we still find ourselves - in the conditions of asking for sacrifices from economic categories, sectors, subjects (there are restaurateurs, traders, small and large entrepreneurs), we need to establish a compensation mechanism. Someone says: We don't like the word "restors." Invent what you want, but the mechanism must be effective, immediate and there must be a direct correspondence between the sacrifice made and the compensation that those who made that sacrifice deserve. As I said, a new balance must be found in the public debate, because there are economic activities that need to be refreshed and without which the country cannot recover. However, there is another piece of the beauty of the country, which risks becoming the piece made by the new invisible: I am talking about culture, museums, art, school, the piece made by workers and workers of art, culture and entertainment that, without effective, concrete, effective and timely help, risk becoming the new proletariat of the country; which would be paradoxical, because it is precisely women and men who make their significant contribution to that Italy is known exactly in the way it is known, namely a great country with extraordinary beauty and history. We have done well to include in our resolution a passage which goes exactly in this direction and which is more than just an emphasis. I think that this too must be taken into account from the next steps. As we begin to conclude, Mr President, the epidemic has unveiled so many flaws in our system. There is one, in particular, that we cannot pretend not to see and that has also gone through the discussion of the months behind us; it is a systemic breach, which has to do with the relationship between the State and the Regions. There is a distance - someone said earlier in the speeches that preceded me - between the national plan developed by the Government, by the Ministry of Health, and the implementation aspect of that plan, especially in relation to the issue of the distribution and administration of vaccines. We cannot fail to see that there is a huge problem of institutional architecture. 16.40 (Follows LAFORGIA). This Babel in the relationship between the State and the Regions no longer holds up and - I say this with the utmost intellectual honesty - this applies to the Region in which I live, Lombardy, which has even remained unprepared on the ground of influenza vaccines, as is the case with a region like Puglia, in which this morning families did not know whether or not to send their children to school. [[Applause]] This institutional Babel must end and is also an important part of the fight against the pandemic. For these reasons, Minister, I think that your commitment, the rigour, the responsibility with which you are carrying it forward must see us united in supporting your action and that of your Government. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to do so, but I think and hope that it can be a cross-cutting and broad support, because the country needs it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u135	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Minister, we have been talking about Covid in this House for over a year, you yourself came here on 30 January last year, and this year we have certainly appreciated your willingness to be constantly present to report and to speak with us. We have put forward many proposals in the past few months and rarely, to be honest, have we seen them accepted. Among the many proposals were, for example, to give priority in vaccinations to disabled people and caregivers who care about them. [[Applause]] You yourself announced that you would include these categories among the priorities, along with people above a certain age group, but then in the message sent to the Regions this indication was not there. We are pleased to see now this specific point included in the majority resolution, on which you of course gave a favourable opinion. We also wanted - as Mr Berlusconi said today - to take all the necessary steps to produce vaccines in Italy. [[Applause]] There is a considerable difficulty in having the necessary supply, even if the Italian pharmaceutical companies have an extraordinary level and are appreciated all over the world. In many countries we accept medicines from Italy and not from other countries, which in other respects are just as reliable as Italy. Our pharmaceutical industry is truly of the highest standard. We have also included this point in the majority resolution. We have presented many other proposals and we have also delivered, during the consultations for the formation of the government, our plan for vaccines [[Applause]] - I have here the last edition, which I will deliver at the end of the intervention - where there are indications that I consider valuable. It is not only a set of good intentions, but there are practical proposals, such as to use all available facilities, without distinction between public or private, regardless of whether they have a nice design or not. We have made another proposal, which seemed obvious to us to be accepted, but which we still see not implemented and we hope it will be implemented as soon as possible: since we obviously have a problem in vaccinating everyone, which is not a small undertaking, as tens of millions of people, we have made an obvious proposal, namely not to vaccinate those who have already been sick and who are obviously immune. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, these days too, they are 2.5 million people. We save time and work, in addition to money, to vaccinate 2.5 million people. We have asked to use everything that is necessary and we have appreciated, in the programmatic statements of the President of the Council of Draghi last week, the fact that he said, among the very first things, that the changes in measures for the containment of the pandemic must be decided and communicated sufficiently in advance. We rely on this and we will be very determined to demand that this provision be upheld. A few hours or perhaps a few days before there had been the provision on the ski resorts, whose failure to reopen had been announced a few hours after the reopening, with serious inconveniences, expenses and programs gone upstream. [[Applause]] Well, we will be extremely determined to demand that this commitment be respected, and not just that. We appreciated that the last measure of the day before yesterday was taken by decree-law; we hope that there will always be the use of instruments provided for in the Constitution, always. [[Applause.]] We've said that in the past few months and we haven't changed our minds. Since it is an illness - the pandemic is a disease that afflicts the whole country and the entire population - let's remember to do what doctors do: a doctor when he cures the liver tries, of course, to heal the liver but being careful not to damage the heart, the kidneys, the lungs. Each disease must be seen within the whole organism; in this case, within the whole body of the nation. We must be very careful in the limitations made to contain the pandemic in order to avoid killing the productive sectors of the country. [[Applause]] There are sectors that have suffered particularly: tourism, catering, leisure, culture. There are sectors that really risk and when a company closes it is very difficult to reopen it, especially in the uncertainty that still exists today and that will not be, unfortunately, limited to the coming weeks or months, even if we have great hopes that this country can start again in its full potential. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Draghi, last week, wished - you yourself said so in recent months - for unity of intent, which is not only an option but an obligation during this period. That's right. However, unity of intent must not be interpreted in saying: this is what I want to do and who had different ideas is for division. No, the unit can be reached by cooperating. We have presented many proposals, we will continue to present them with the needs of a country that wants to overcome the pandemic and share to the full of its extraordinary potential. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u138	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Minister, we have appreciated more than a passage in your communications, starting from the awareness that we need to change the method, that we need a concrete and unified approach in the fight against the Covid epidemic in order to reduce the damage of the new virus mutations and compensate for some delays and organisational underestimates that are undeniable, but that we are interested in overcoming rather than complaining. A year ago, we all happily locked ourselves in front of the unknown and anguish of this terrible virus; then, we figured out how to deal with and contain the contagion. That is why, today, one year later, we can no longer intervene with the same approximation and indecision that was justifiable twelve months ago. [[Applause]] But that is no longer acceptable after forcing our fellow citizens to protocols, constraints, restrictions and prevention measures of all kinds. I remember when in June last year the restaurateurs went down to the square in Milan in front of the Arch of Peace: they peacefully asked - keeping their proper distances - to resume working safely, taking care of everything necessary to prevent infection. They were fined and we were outraged at such a compression of freedom that it already seemed difficult for us to justify. Since then, many protests such as that have been held throughout Italy. Since then, it has been estimated that, of the more than 73,000 companies closed, about 17,000, almost a quarter, Minister, will no longer reopen: a disaster in itself that cannot be aggravated by the approximation that too many times characterized the closure decisions. Minister, there is a need for commitment, respect and loyal collaboration between the different responsibilities, between the national government and the regions and between the municipalities. [[Applause.]] No more last-minute announcements! Sense of measurement and even a brake on excessive television appearances of experts, professors or scientists [[Applause]] , more or less authoritative, which all too often cause confusion and even unduly overlap with those who have government responsibilities. Too many approximations and underestimates, which have characterized the action of contrast to the pandemic, appear inexcusable, after we are in a state of emergency for more than twelve months. For this reason, I repeat: let us move on quickly and remove from the political debate the rhetorical crossroads between choosing to protect health or work, as if one could build a future, giving up one or the other thing. A principle must be clear: just as closures must be made when it is necessary, with determination and common sense, by limiting outbreaks of infection to the territories directly concerned, with the same common sense the economic and social fabric must be reopened and reactivated. [[Applause]] whenever and wherever it is possible to live safely, with a low risk of infection. New generalised closures and new national lockdowns are no longer sustainable by our country: this we have to tell ourselves clearly, frankly and without twists of words. Ordering to close everything, because then everything will be fine, could be supported, collecting consensus, collaboration and sharing by the Italians, in February 2020, but it does not work anymore and we can not even afford it in February 2021, after a year. So we need to make every effort to stop and manage the epidemic. I say more: we must learn to live with the pandemic, knowing well that it will not be resolved in a short time, as the new mutations of the virus unfortunately confirm. We must use all the necessary precautions to minimise the risk of infection. We must guarantee the necessary health structures, able to make us face new outbreaks and the most difficult situations, without dramatizing and without throwing the country into dismay every time. [[Applause]] It is clear, Minister, that the political line of contrast to the Covid-19 cannot dictate it who, in the face of a lockdown, does not pose the problem of how the Italians will then arrive at the end of the month without working or how the Italians will repay the enormous debt that we are necessarily taking to face the economic and health emergency. I repeat: the relationship of responsibility and loyal collaboration between the territories, the regions and the level of national government, engaged in the battle against the Covid-19, must be strengthened, as you have rightly shared. We need common sense - I will often repeat this word - because this is needed and, honestly, it has not always been seen in the actions put in place in the recent past. [[Applause]] Woe to underestimate the danger! Of course. But also trouble to discourage and to break the confidence of the Italians, consolidating the idea that you can not win the virus, without irremediably compromising the economy of our country. Paradoxical situations must be overcome and avoided, such as those of economic activities forced to last minute closures, as happened with the ski sector, and common sense must be put into all the rules of containment of the epidemic, from the transport system to the rules of closure imposed on bars, restaurants, gyms, workplaces and culture, in areas with low risk of infection. I quote the example of restaurants, where we do not explain, even today, how the virus can cause problems at night and not at noon, that is, why it does not create them at noon, but creates them at night. [[Applause]] Minister, we appreciate from your words the confirmation that the time of dogmatic responses is over, which also prevent a critical assessment of the objective effectiveness or not of the actions to combat the epidemic put in place. Today I heard, in addition to your words, Minister Hope, even those worthy of Dr. Bertolaso. Minister, in this regard, I would ask you to consider its very practical and pragmatic approach and also to demand an identical approach to the national commissioner structure. Are we at war? Yeah, we're at war. The virus mutates and, in order to win it, we must be as quick to adapt our contrast strategies. War is fought at the front, where, in order to fight war, means and support are needed. You need vaccines called Sputnik, AstraZeneca, Pfizer or something. It is objective that the examples of other European and non-European countries, such as Israel or Great Britain, show us models of approaches and contrast to the non-unique pandemic and with alternate successes and criticalities, but if there is a common denominator to the most successful solutions it is undoubtedly the application of reasonable rules and shared with seriousness and determination. In this sense, Minister, every possibility and will to produce the vaccine in Italy must be implemented without hesitation. Getting out of the precariousness and uncertainty of the contagion quickly also corresponds to a competitive advantage of economic recovery. This is a reflection to accompany that of the protection of health, to which we cannot subtract, because already for other countries it is so. From the need to overcome this emergency, both pandemic and tragically economic, the very premises of the large majority that supports the Government to which you, Minister, referred in your speech today are born. But in order to emerge from the emergency and face the recovery it is necessary to give the Italians proof and demonstration of concreteness, determination and common sense on the part of those who have the responsibility of Government. The League supports the Dragon Government for this high sense of responsibility, but we want an approach made precisely of concreteness (a few clear rules) and above all - I repeat one last time - common sense. [[Applause]] This we want and this we expect from the Government starting from the next decree. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u141	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister Hope said, we are traveling the last mile of what we have always called a marathon and not a 100-metre race. A marathon in which we had a lighthouse to guide us and this lighthouse was science. In this speech, too, I would like to start by taking up some of the figures mentioned by the Minister: today one out of every ten European citizens has been infected by the Sars-Cov-2, one out of every five hundred has died. We are at more than 2.5 million dead in the world and several countries are in lockdown. The data in Italy instead say that twelve Regions see an increase in the number of infections per 100,000 inhabitants; this increase in contagions exceeds 5 percent in 17 Provinces, especially for the circulation of more contagious variants. So, as Minister Hope said, the RT index, which is the transmitability index, returns dangerously to unity and when this index exceeds 1 we know that exponentially increases the contagions that put at risk the maintenance of our health service. These figures require us once again to make political decisions. What we are asking Minister Hope, however, is to move from aggregated data to punctual data, to be made public anonymously and unbundled, in order to guarantee the transparency of which the Minister himself spoke, transparency that is demanded by all scientific societies in order to be able to use these same data for study and research purposes. There is also another fact that is worrying, in my opinion, and that is what indicates how Italy has gone from being the first European country to receive doses of vaccine to being one of the last. This clearly cannot be linked only to the shortage in the supply of vaccines, because this shortage is the same throughout Europe. The fact that Italy has passed to the last places is instead linked to the discrepancy of the vaccination administration in the various Regions, that it has evidenced when we have passed from the first phase of vaccination, the one that interested all the health workers and the guests and the operators of the RSA, to the mass vaccination, starting from the Forces of the order and the operators of the scholastic field. As the Minister said, the pandemic is not only combatted with good government in Rome, because, if the commissioner's structure guarantees and provides the regions with vaccination doses, then close coordination is needed to ensure that these are actually administered. Today, instead, a quarter of the vaccines that arrive to the Regions are not administered: Calabria administers only 60% of the vaccines, all the other Regions are around 75%. This discrepancy is linked not only to a difficulty in defining the audience to be vaccinated (some regions have started with the vaccination of the over eighty years old, in others the fragile subjects are also vaccinating, while in others still this phase has not yet started); the difficulty is, in fact, especially logistic and organizational. We welcome the agreement reached with doctors of general medicine so that they too become vaccine workers. Clearly, as we had planned - and in fact we had included an amendment to that effect in the ristori decree... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, ladies and gentlemen, can we turn down the buzz of this House? I can't hear Senator Castellone. CASTELLONE (M5S). With an amendment to the ristori decree we had asked that doctors of general medicine should vaccinate not within their own studies but in ASL and hospitals, in order to put in safety operator and user. That is what the doctors themselves are asking for today. Another logistical difficulty linked, for example, to the administration of vaccines within pharmacies is the expectation of always having a medical supervisor. Let us therefore return to the weakness of our entire national health service, that is, the shortage of staff, resulting from the last decade of perpetual and constant cuts to the sector, especially health workers, also considering the fact that 46,000 health workers have passed from the public sector to the private sector. The regions, however, unfortunately continue to employ only precarious staff. In addition, the ban that had been made to recruit 15,000 workers (3,000 doctors and 12,000 nurses), attended by 24,000 doctors and nurses, now sees employing only 1,300 workers in the vaccination centers. We are therefore very far from the forecast. In the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, we have included points which we believe are important. We would urge the Minister to ask the regions to employ permanent staff, especially to cover the health needs of the population. Today we are far below the level necessary to meet the health needs under standard conditions, we imagine in the management of a pandemic. To do this we have asked to include, already in the text of the decree one thousandprorogates, as has been done, the extension of the stabilization for all the precarious ones that at the end of 2021 reach the thirty-six months of seniority. In some regions, such as Puglia, 800 socio-health workers were fired after almost 36 months, who had been engaged and used in the management of this pandemic. Those we're calling "heroes" are downloading them, not extending their contracts. I regret to note that, while we, within the thousand-pronge, thought of the precarious and the health workers, other political forces of the same majority have, on the other hand, wanted to cancel the mandate of the presidents of the professional order [[Applause]] , making nothing in fact the Law Lorenzin, which prevents the presidents of the orders from running after having carried out two mandates. Today, however, we are allowing presidents who have played that role for almost twenty years to do so for another eight years, becoming real holders of a power. We also ask the Minister to ensure that there is no delay in vaccination of fragile subjects. As the Minister recalled, nearly six out of ten deceased are over eighty years old and almost all are fragile subjects. We are still a long way from vaccinating all the over 80s that Europe is asking us to vaccinate by the end of March: we are just 3% of people who received the double dose and 6% of people who received the first dose. All other fragile subjects, including cancer patients, must be added to the over 80s. In Italy there are 3.5 million people living after a diagnosis of cancer and more than one million cancer patients being treated. For these patients mortality rises from 3 percent to 25 percent and even reaches 50 percent in transplanted subjects. Therefore, we must focus on the staff, on the protection of fragile patients and on an Italian production of vaccine that, in our opinion, must be a messenger RNA because this vaccine has the highest effectiveness and is more easily modifiable in case of emergence of variants. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u143	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u144	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, if you see the morning, wish you well! Hope continues to dictate the line and, if the line didn't go well before, I don't understand how it works now. You are always on the rails of closures and maximum confusion. You had fooled the UK by saying that with Brexit they would be isolated. Well, the United Kingdom has vaccinated all those who had requested it. Your accumulated delay will not recover it anymore; it is useless for you to make illusions and then lack a uniform pharmacological protocol because obviously Big Pharma is not interested. Hope for me is the same as Arcuri, his inefficiencies and his contradictions. Hope is equal to CTS and superpower; Hope remains that of closure and collateral damage. Hope is the same as with the promotional video of the World Health Organization, an organization suspended between Chinese propaganda and Bill Gates' propaganda, which today has taken its toll to cause further panic. What's the name of this Bill Gates? Do you want another one? We already have enough to panic, starting with the European Commission, totally defeated on the Covid emergency. I hear about refreshments, but it's not enough anymore. Now, in addition to the refreshments, you must provide for compensation and cancellation of sanctions for those who have been fined because they have opposed your fanaticism. In short, Hope is the same minister of great chaos. Poor Italians sacrificed to the interests of multinationals and, above all, to the uselessness of the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u145	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Zaffini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh, Fantetti and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u148	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr. President, maybe I'll just wait a second. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u149	Absolutely. Whoever has to turn away does so without creating assemblages and possibly in silence, so I can give the word to Senator Santanchè.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u150	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to speak about the insults that have been addressed to Giorgia Meloni and I would like to thank, on behalf of Brothers of Italy, the President of the Republic, the President of the Council and also... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u151	Sorry, I see the request has not been accepted. Since Senator Santanché is intervening and other colleagues will have to speak, please let anyone who has to leave the Chamber do so in a compound manner, so that we can move on with the work. Whoever stays silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u152	Please, Senator. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Do you think we can make it, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think so. We're determined women. I think we're gonna make it. You're welcome. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). I wanted to thank on behalf of Brothers of Italy - as I was saying - the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, the President of the Council Professor Draghi and the President of the Senate for the solidarity and closeness they expressed to Giorgia Meloni following the serious insults he received from a so-called university professor. Why do I thank them in a very particular way and with great enthusiasm? Because I am sure that if their solidarity and closeness had not been there, surely we would not have had the same feedback and certainly the great newspapers would not have taken care of the insults that Giorgia Meloni received, and I am sure that they would have gone to cavalry, as many times has happened when women, especially those of center-right, receive insults. That is why I thank them. I must also say that what has always been happening is happening. What is most sorry is to see these bad teachers, these university professors of the academic world who should have the task of training our young people, of making them grow, of forming them from the point of view of disciplines and culture; instead we see that, when they go to make radio broadcasts and not only, they express themselves in a certain language and, above all, they express themselves with a certain contempt. Sorry to say that this always happens, or very often, from professors who culturally and ideologically stand on the left side. On the one hand, we should ask ourselves why and why, given that the left has been filling the mouth of women for decades, to help women, to preserve the dignity of women. Instead, I believe that this can be explained by the resentment that this type of people have towards women, perhaps because they cannot take it out on women on the left and cannot understand. Beyond the insults - let me say this, Mr President - the most regrettable thing is when the professor said that Giorgia Meloni had the arrogance to address the great Professor Draghi as equals. I would like to remind this professor that Giorgia Meloni received millions of votes from Italians and that we right-wing women do not have Torccicollo syndrome, because we do not try to look at the boss to give us some extra points or position. Giorgia Meloni had not a concession from the males, but the ability, tenacity and will to conquer positions. I would also like women from the center-left, given the formation of the last government, to reflect on how they are treated. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u155	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I followed closely President Mario Draghi's programme statements of 17 February. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u156	I ask my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy to give back the courtesy of keeping silent while the other colleagues take part.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u157	Please, Senator Lunesu. LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would like to focus on a subject that is particularly close to my heart, gender equality, which for the first time in the debate of a Premier has been designated as a matter of equality and rights that affect a large part of the country. The President of the Council devoted part of his speech to gender equality in the world of work, recalling how the pandemic has so far hit young people and women in selective unemployment and with a gender gap in employment rates in Italy which is among the highest in Europe. And it is precisely in the world of work that violence often lurks. Psychological is a devious form of mistreatment: it is invisible and silent, has devastating consequences and is often underestimated. In Italy, violence against women is both a consequence and a cause of persistent gender inequalities, especially in work areas. A clear example is the case of a senior magistrate of the anti-mafia, Dr. Alessia Sinatra, who, after having made advances from a colleague, says - almost to apologise for her - that she did not denounce the violence to protect the institution, but that it was the most difficult and painful decision of her professional life. Now on the Sinatra hangs a disciplinary charge and you say you felt raped a second time. Personally, I was deeply impressed by this case, so much so that I wanted to telephone Dr. Sinatra to show her all my solidarity as a woman and representative of the institutions. We women must break that often deafening silence that reigns within us. We have the duty and responsibility to denounce the inexcusable situations. The recent case of the political exponent, Mr Giorgia Meloni, who - it has already been mentioned - has for two times been the subject of heavy offensive names (by a journalist in a television show and by a university professor by radio) with squalid and dirty words. Think, a university teacher! What has undergone the Meloni shows that we are still living in a culture that is not equal, but sexist. Verbal violence is already a form of mistreatment and violence against women also goes from language that is used, starting from family, school, mass media and social. It is essential to make it known that there is legal aid for victims to benefit from legal support. Ladies and gentlemen, I have brought the example of two important people in sight: they have the tools and the means to protect themselves. But let's think about the majority of women who have no economic, legal or fearful, backward or little experience (I think about secretaries, workers, colfs, housewives, nurses and doctors): it takes respect for women and we must demand it. Of course, much has already been done in recent years with awareness from national and regional institutions. But in order to help solve the problem, we must ensure that current cultural and social values change for the better. Today, with my brief speech, I would like to say a few words so that we can talk more often about this in this House and I would urge all colleagues and colleagues to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u158	I would remind my colleagues who spoke at the end of the sitting that three minutes were allocated to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u161	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind you of yet another uncovered episode of physical and psychic violence against the elderly. In this case, the scene of what we can call an authentic crime against the human person is the city of Palermo, where, in a family home of rest for the elderly, the poor guests, fragile and helpless people, were vexed and subjected to every kind of verbal and corporal violence, to daily beatings and insults, without any respect for the dignity and the human person. Beyond the course of the investigations undertaken and the confirmations that will arise from them, the raw images, of horror and violence against the poor elderly, threatened and beaten, leave us speechless and deeply hurt our souls. Even verbal expressions, extremely offensive and out of all logic, show to what degree of mental perversion or desire to do violence the suspects had arrived. While in this pandemic phase we are trying in every way with appropriate measures to preserve as much as possible the most fragile and weak people in our society, these episodes in their extreme gravity and crudeness risk throwing a shadow and a deep disturbance on the citizens, but they cannot make forget the immense work and the great availability that thousands of honest health workers, respectful of the rules and of human life during this serious pandemic carry out daily in the health structures of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u164	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention to a fact which has had an echo of national importance which occurred on Monday in Bondeno, a town in the province of Ferrara, my city. The media treated the murder of fifty-one-year-old Rossella Placati, found spilling into her home with her skull smashed. I want to insist on the term smashed that hits the ears and stomach, but from which we cannot escape because so many heinous deaths do not have to happen anymore. Yet they follow each other. A few days ago Genoa happened to Clara Ceccarelli; before that, to Faenza, to Ilenia Fabbri. The investigators are investigating Rossella Placati. The comrade has been stopped and the charges are being directed against him. There was talk of a couple's crisis that would lead to the above epilogue. In these days we have known so much about Rossella, I would like to say too much; we know that she was a worker, that she was a trade unionist, that she had two sisters, an ex-husband, two children, the cohabiting companion who wanted to enter a reality show and that she practiced race and Buddhism. Rossella was somehow undone, presented to our eyes in a flash that they gave us of her, restoring an image of beauty, vitality, dynamism and serenity; aspects that nothing changes compared to the crime, that such would have been even if Rossella had done another job, if she had been an introverted person. On the other hand, there is a tendency to accentuate aspects of the life and character of the victims. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to think about other actions because those put on the ground so far have obviously not been enough: they have served, but they are not enough. We are talking about education, prevention and awareness; yet the news continues to give us things like this. There's a piece missing. The situation, the experts say, is aggravated by the lockdown that has removed vital spaces and marked an increase in aggression between the domestic walls. Precisely because we know that the health emergency - as we have had yet another confirmation today from the words Minister Hope - is far from being finished, we need to rethink the interventions in this direction. In the immediate interest of rethinking prevention, education and awareness must be built and financed new projects, resources must be found and resources must be spent. I say that even today with respect to the sexist words that have been addressed to the leader of Brothers of Italy, to whom I still express my solidarity, and despite the words of Senator Garnero Santanchè, we must understand and speak to the very young of both genders, women and men. Perhaps we need new words and an alliance between the media; politics and the media must make a pact so that we do not get used to it, so that the news does not be consumed in two days and so that those who are victims of violence can overcome feelings such as shame and fear of retaliation. We have to go beyond the story. That's why I ask that within the recovery plan there be resources dedicated to projects aimed also at publishing. We cannot get used to it, because this is the real risk and, as well as harmful, it would be manslaughter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u165	Senator De Carlo, I ask you to be kind in the work of the Assembly to wear earphones, so as not to disturb colleagues' speeches. I'm grateful.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u166	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-299.ana.u167	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 25 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5/27 p.m.
