ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 15 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders approved additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 30 July. In today's sitting, the general discussion on the draft law on combating discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability will continue. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 9.30 a.m., provides for the discussion of the decree-law on business, work, youth and health. Orientally around 11.30 a.m., the Minister of Justice will inform you about the serious events that occurred in the surrounding house of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. Groups can intervene for ten minutes, divided into two interventions (fifteen minutes to the Mixed Group, divided into three interventions). At the end of the information, the sitting will be suspended for the sanitisation of the Chamber. At 4.30 p.m., the decree-law on business, work, youth and health will continue to be discussed. Since the Government has announced the position of the question of trust on the decree, in the evening of tomorrow a Conference of the Leaders will be convened that will define the successive procedural phases of examination of the provision, to be carried out on the day of Thursday 22. Also on Thursday 22, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers of the Interior, of the defence and of the work. Next week's schedule provides, with sessions starting from Tuesday afternoon 27 to Friday 30 July, if necessary, discussion of the decrees-NCR governance law and simplifications, currently being examined in the Chamber of Reputables, and strengthening public administrations and justice. Thursday, July 29, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place as usual.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u4	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you and all my colleagues to analyse the situation of the Covid-19, including with regard to the work of this House. In these months, we have always been very careful and diligent and we have followed the indications of the quaestors senators: I wonder therefore whether we should intervene again on the attitude to be taken towards senators who decide not to proceed with vaccination and if there are possible interventions. [[Applause]] I believe that our institution must ensure normal operation and that, in the logic of things, we also have a duty to set an example for our fellow citizens. I therefore call on the Presidency to make a statement on the quaestors senators, in order to understand what the new rules should be, including the situation that has changed and the frightened introduction of the card, which will allow us to access public places. I therefore believe that we, as Senate, must also be consequent. Mr President, it is important for the country and for the functioning of our Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u7	Senator Marcucci, I personally am vaccinated, and I believe most senators are vaccinated, but, since it poses the problem, I immediately give you my personal opinion: the non-Vaccinated could put them upstairs, well spaced and with the mask, while underneath, without mask and neighbors, we could seat the vaccinated senators. That is my opinion, not discriminatory, but precautionary. [[Comments.]] Why not?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u8	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 30 July: [[Tuesday, July 20 h. 16,30-20 - Following general discussion draft law n. 2005 - Contrast of discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2320 - Decree-Law n. 73, Enterprises, work, youth and health (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 24 July) (Wednesday 21) - Information of the Minister of Justice on the serious events in the surrounding house of Santa Maria Capua Vetere (Wednesday 21) - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 22, 15) Wednesday 21 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 22 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday, July 27 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law... - Decree-Law No. 77 PNRR Governance and simplifications (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on July 30) - Drawing of law no. 2272 - Decree-Law No. 80, Strengthening public administration and justice (decades on August 8) - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 29, at 15) Wednesday 28 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 29 " h. 9,30-20 Friday 30 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No... (Decree-Law No 77, Government PNRR and simplifications) will be set in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2320 (Decree-Law No 73, Enterprise, Labour, Youth and Health) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 32'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 77, Governance National Recovery and Resilience Plan and Simplification Procedures) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 32'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2272 (Decree-Law No 80, Public administration and justice) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 40'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law n. 2005, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Boldrini and Hope MPs; Zan and others; Scalfarotto and others; Perantoni and others; Bartolozzi. Senator Totaro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u10	Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group is intervening with all its members in the debate on the draft law on our examination. In this way, we reaffirm our opposition to this proposal and the fact that we will stand firm and constructively against our amendments, by holding up an opposition, as we always do, that is not for the no regardless, but with constructive action. In the debate that began in this House, however, we want to reiterate, with all the members of the Brothers of Italy Group, the arguments that drive us to be against the text that is being proposed to us and that has been dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies. We must clear the field of a factor and a question that is unfortunately raised in television debates and also in this House, namely that there is someone in our area - or, in general, in the right - who wants to discriminate against someone else. Listening to the words of the Secretary of the Letta Democratic Party, his steps and the ways in which he has put questions concerning the draft law in question, it seems to us that he wants to divide the world between those who are attentive to the rights of the so-called minorities and those who want to oppress them or put their heels on top of their rights. It's not like that at all! I understand that the Secretary of the Democratic Party is in the condition that some other secretary of that political air has been found. I think, for example, of Massimo D'Alema, a few years ago, when someone asked him: "D'Alema, say something left!" In the same way, Letta, once he went to the government of his party and became its secretary, had to set a turning point and was told to say something left. Thus, he began a battle without a neighborhood to defend the bill under consideration, not listening to the criticism that came from several parts, not only from the center-right and from the right, but from the whole political lineup and from personalities who come from the gay and lesbian world and from feminism. Nothing: he did not want to listen to anything and he brings us into this Chamber this unchangeable text, so we are told that, if we do not like it as it is, we do not vote for it. We do not vote for it, dear Secretary Letta. We do not want to vote on this text, but not only: we reject your theory that someone wants to discriminate against someone else; we are against any discrimination and we would have been willing in this House to make changes to punish even more pressingly those who might have exercised discrimination against someone else on the basis of sex or gender. We would have been firm in aggravating the penalties, even if there is already legislation that affects these crimes. There is already, but we could have talked about it and discussed it. No, it's not. The thought behind Letta's political action is much more: it is not the defense of homosexuals or people who feel discriminated against. This is not the problem of Letta, it is much more: to send out other messages and to carry out a political battle in which, at this point, homosexuals are a sort of mirror for the lark, something to be used to make a well-defined political campaign to reach certain environments, even extremists, on these issues to which we wink. On the contrary, we do not have the ultimate objective in mind, which should be to safeguard minorities and protect those who are discriminated against. We do not accept lessons from Enrico Letta, neither from him nor from all the world he represents, that of the left, dear friends and colleagues of the center-left. We have lived it on our skin in years away, as Ignazio La Russa recalled a few days ago on this very issue in this House. I am referring to discrimination on the part of your brothers, probably your political fathers in those years, which discriminated against those who did not think like them: we saw ourselves moving away from schools and universities; we were taken away from the possibility of entering those places only because we had the mark, we were right-wing and we were classified and called in a certain way; we had no hearing in those places. We felt on our skin what it meant to be discriminated against and to be in a position not to participate and not to be equal to others, even if then the spaces we took the same, be clear. Yet, this was the climate of those years, established by many who are now babbling also through some newspaper or television and who see it pontificate that no one should be discriminated against and that one should be tolerant. In those years they were not tolerant, they were not tolerant with us. I will say more: I come from a territory where 85% of the inhabitants voted Italian Communist Party. I lived in schools the discrimination of being a right-wing boy and having friends who had different sexual orientations: they too were discriminated against in that world, because in those years this happened, and we are not talking about eighty years ago, but about forty. It was years when the left said certain things, behaved in a certain way and had political fathers who in the nations of real socialism discriminated against homosexuals and put them in concentration camps. This is the truth, so we do not take any lessons from you on these issues. [[Applause]] Put it well in your head and so does your secretary Letta, but not only. We have also seen - always on this subject - that lately Secretary Letta asks our leader of Brothers of Italy Giorgia Meloni to distance himself from Orbán, who, according to him, has made certain statements. If you go to read what Orbán wrote - beyond jargon, which probably does not agree with us - it is simply an opposition to gender theory in Hungarian schools, which is a bit what we also think and which implies your bill. Yet, strangely, we do not know that Letta, as well as the entire left - you have several leaders who with certain environments probably have relations of various kinds, even economic ones - compared to countries such as Qatar or Saudi Arabia, where homosexuals are sentenced to death, have taken a position or have said something. Tell us something, not on the left, but on those regimes in which homosexuals are sentenced to death. Nothing, absolute and total silence, then asks our leader to distance himself from Orbán. Let's not make fun of each other. My colleagues in the Democratic Party realize that their leader says crazy things and doesn't follow what he says? Is Mr Letta himself aware of this? We are aware that behind this bill there is much more: a path of cultural character that is proposed to the younger generations; the gender theory to be promoted within schools; the principle that biological sexuality should be rejected, so there must no longer be a man and a woman, but if anything you must move to the perceived sexual identity, with all the problems that this would entail in so many environments. There are so many situations of this kind in countries where you know that laws similar to those you want to approve in Italy have been adopted, and they are very serious, so those who do not think so are discriminated against. There is indeed the temptation on the part of certain left to return to a Jacobin rage, of guillotinations, so if anyone thinks otherwise, he has no right to speak or to express himself. I am telling you with complete tranquility: promise to approve all the laws you want in this Parliament, in which you state that you cannot say that a family - the traditional one - must be composed of a man and a woman and that you can be prosecuted for this by some zealous magistrate (if anything, after so many years, you can be acquitted, but in the meantime you must undergo a trial). In your opinion, if these laws were passed, would we, with our political history, be terrified? Do you think we stop thinking and saying these things? Put us all in jail: we will continue to say, we will not be afraid of your laws, which make us laugh; do you understand or not? [[Applause]] Stay calm and calm, we tell you honestly: you probably won't be able to approve this law, because you don't even have the numbers, when we go to the secret vote; but surely, even if you approve it, then we will make an intransigent opposition in the streets, even through a referendum, to ensure that this liberticidal law does not pass and is not a law of the Italian State. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u11	Who's screaming? Didn't he like Senator Totaro's surgery? He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u12	Mr President, this episode explains, in a plastic way, what understanding and the commonplace they want to create. If an Italian citizen or MP of the Republic says he is for the traditional family, he is immediately branded as homophobic and voices are heard that they want to paint this opinion as fascism. This explains the intent of this law, which does not add rights, but is unconstitutional, as we have argued with the question we have presented, and wants to introduce a crime of opinion and gender teaching in all schools of every order and grade. It is not a question, as the previous senator and all the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy Group have said, of punishing those who allow themselves to assume attitudes that our code already strikes. No one in Italy, who is a civilized country, can afford to attack or discriminate for no reason. Brothers of Italy clearly said that there is full willingness, as always, to face with increased punishment every phenomenology that should be accentuated in our society, because we live in a rule of law. What is different, however, is what the left wants to carry forward for exclusive interests of electoral manifesto and for a crisis of identity and consensus that evidently lives in our nation precisely for a total detachment from the real world. We will be in this House for weeks to talk about this, while our nation is experiencing a very deep crisis, because of which Italian citizens are caught up in sudden anguish, in the difficulty of an economic crisis that was already evident before the pandemic and that the health emergency has made extreme, with infinite uncertainty for the future. Instead, we need to talk about the Zan law: this is the priority of priorities, which shows, plastically, also on this, that it is not possible to build majorities that have no foundation in a homogeneous vision of society. We do not accept any possibility of compromise. Despite this, as we have been accustomed by our leader Giorgia Meloni, we try to do a serious job for the respect we have of the Italians and the high institution we represent. Brothers of Italy has tabled 127 amendments and six agendas, which are our proposals to dismantle this wrong ideological measure and for us pernicious for society, without mediation, because, in the presence of the ideological fury that is being put in place, we cannot have any other attitude. Moreover - as is confirmed by the attitude of the Left towards its allies of the majority - what has happened from the institutional point of view is also extremely serious. The Senate Chamber has been transformed into the Commission, which has been completely out of office. It's practically said to the Italians: You are free to think, as long as you do not say. It is the typical attitude of the left, who thinks he has the truth in his pocket and has transformed into the civil motorization that releases the licenses of civilization to those who want to think differently. Mr Totaro said that very clearly and clearly. We are not impressed and are strongly supported by what we collect, being every day in the squares. We have already animated hundreds of gazebos over the past weekend and this law does not have the approval not only of this House, but above all of the Italian citizens, who have understood that they want to do something else, that is to put a gag and reverse discrimination, to say that those who do not align with the one thought are pursued and limited and have no right to express their opinion, even though it is legitimate and expressed perhaps in appropriate forms. We will not stop with this activity of confrontation with the citizens; we will put every political action in place to say, as President La Russa did in his speech, that hatred cannot be promoted in the name of love. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u13	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still in this Chamber debating a particularly divisive subject. Personally, I find it a truly democratic debate on a subject that, however, on a scale of priority, is not in the first place for me, as could be many other issues to be resolved in our country. Many other measures have passed quickly, almost in the dark, and yet, yes, they would have needed to be debated for a long time in this House before final approval. I am talking about measures that limit the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution. For example, we have briefly debated strategies to combat covid: we all know that victory over it is fundamental to return to the rights of freedom that have been denied to us. The debate on early home care was limited to a vote on a motion, which was then for the time being a dead letter. Why does that vaccine have to be the only strategy? Why do you not go along with the treatment that allows you not to have hospitalizations or deaths? [[Applause]] Colleagues, listen to me on this, because I would like to talk to you in this House about early home care and not to hear Mr Marcucci who wants to discriminate vaccinated and not, forgive me; that is a real discrimination. However, let us return to the Zan bill and its boycott in the Commission, as the supporters - I say - say in bad faith. There are so many firm measures. What should we say, for example, about bill No. 189 on eating disorders? Let's talk about the serious problem of anorexia and severe bulimia, especially among young people. It has been stationary since March 2018. The bill No 299, which lays down provisions in favour of people with fibromyalgia, has been in force since 2018. The bill No. 716 on epilepsy has been suspended since July 2018. The bill No 992, on the teaching of motor education in primary schools, deals with an issue that I particularly care about, because doing sport correctly since childhood makes adults grow healthy and balanced, but this for many of you colleagues is very little important, since it has stopped since December 2018. [[Applause]] The bill No. 897 is the most shameful of all. It is a measure on the prevention of ill-treatment of disabled children and elderly people through the installation of video surveillance cameras, already approved in the Chamber on 23 October 2018 and miserably blocked in the Senate. What are we talking about? [[Applause]] We are talking about a measure that focuses on a category that is definitely fragile and that must be protected, but like many others. What is the discrimination that leads you to say that it is more important to protect and protect from violence a transsexual, an elder in a nursing home or a child in a kindergarten? Mr President, why is the hemicycle on your left so scandalized, making so much noise and force the hand with the government allies on a measure that has been in the Senate for a few months and is not scandalized by a measure against violence against children and elderly people who have been in the Senate for years? [[Applause]] Do older people and children have less importance for them than the voting world of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and transgenders (LGBT)? Violence is always such and always to be condemned, whether it is an adult, elderly or minor of any sexual tendency. It is obvious that there are fragilityes that need to be better protected, but not with this law which, behind the illusory facade of protection, presents many problematic aspects. It's misspelled. We already have so many restrictions that condition us and we cannot add a law that puts gag on some topics of personal opinion and sensitivity. Children need to grow up serene with a mom and dad, who of course are woman and man, with their typical biological, physical and aptitude characteristics, which are different by nature. This is a statement that could impact the sensitivity of a member of the LGBT category and perhaps put someone to trial. An aspect of this bill that strikes me particularly is related to the consequences it can have in women's sport. As a former cyclist, I must consider myself particularly lucky for having carried out my activity in the 1990s. In fact, in countries where these norms are already active there are cases of prevarication by men who, feeling women, snatch medals to women. I'll give you some examples. Cristina Sanulli and Denise Neumann are two athletes who have been able to build themselves, obviously at the price of hard sacrifices, a path of sporting excellence in the light athletics panorama, managing to reconcile work, sport and family commitments. They were unbeatable and, however, at the end of 2020 they were forced to leave the gold medal to Valentina Petrillo, a transgender athlete who perceives himself as a woman. Another example is Rodrigo, who is a he, a she born in 1984, 1.94 meters tall and who until 2015 played in the men's volleyball championships. From that year he calls himself Tiffany. For God's sake, nothing to observe, but the point is that in 2017 he debuted in the Italian women's championship, playing with Palmi for a season. He now plays in the Brazilian volleyball team and will probably participate in the upcoming Olympics in Tokyo. His stature and male muscles took the place of a female athlete who may have spent years training in order to play the Olympics on the female team. Another example is represented by Laurel Hubbard, a middle-aged gentleman, born Gavin, who as a child had a passion for weight lifting. He had ranked first in a 1998 junior contest, but then he hadn't won anything. In 2012 there was a turning point: after deciding to become a woman, she began to compete in women's competitions. Since he won everything (so taking away the victory of women athletes), he will represent New Zealand in the women's competitions of the next Olympics in Tokyo. I also think of Gabrielle Ludwig, a man in his 50s, muscular and tall, who feels like a woman. And so far no problem, for Christ's sake: everyone in life is free to do a bit of what he believes. However, since 2013, according to American standards written under dictation of LGBT lobbyists, Ludwig has been playing basketball in the female student championship. His teammates obviously love him, but his opponents don't. Colleagues, do you realize the aberrations that will be met by approving this bill? Another aspect that worries me is linked to schools and children. Until adolescence children think not about sex, but about playing with what they like most. Why force them on a subject that concerns adults or, at the limit, children from puberty? Children need to learn respect - yes - but to others and all diversity. Among the many automatic e-mails received - I have arrived many, even of disturbance, as happens to all of you, and also to those subjects who send e-mails automatically should be explained the respect [[Applause]] - Someone was there, and I answered them. A lady wrote to me: she, who is a woman, should understand what it means to be discriminated against. Colleagues, perhaps I am a lucky woman because I have never felt discriminated against as a woman; I have never felt weak sex and I have always been convinced that a motivated woman has strength - I am not referring to physical strength, because physical differences obviously exist - at least as much as a man. The only discrimination I feel is the continuous political attack on our ideas, the all-left supposition of being the bearers of truth, the unjustified attitudes of superiority on the part of some. I feel discriminated against when a colleague or colleague does not respond to my greetings just because I have a different idea from his. [[Applause]] ; or at least he or she thinks so. Colleagues, respect starts from here: from respect between us, from respect for the ideas of all; it is not by putting a gag that solves the problems. Mr President, I should like to end with an appeal: let us rewrite this law, ladies and gentlemen, let us rewrite it together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my first thanks go to our President, Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause]] , for indicating the precise course on which to proceed. I think I can say that we have achieved a great deal in this House, partly because the principles on which we travel are always those of freedom and respect for others. When dealing with such sensitive issues, it is always necessary to precede the meetings, debates and speeches in the Chamber, which have taken place, and I must thank the President of our Group, Anna Maria Bernini. [[Applause]] , for allowing our Group to address this extremely sensitive subject with the necessary wisdom that is necessary and with that common sense that I believe characterizes a political movement like ours: therefore in its absolute freedom, but in the rigour and respect of those values, especially freedom and democracy, which are typical of political movements that have something to say even in terms of civilization. Before doing this, I asked myself many times what values I would refer to. It is the life of each one of us that takes us in delicate moments like these to do a bit of a summary of one's life. Then the principles and values come back to mind, those that were delivered to us not only at the time of the school, but also to those who attended the parish, to those who had the chance to live above all in a family that gave something, as did my parents who always put at the center and taught me the respect of the person, especially respect for the dignity of each one. These are values that I believe should also be passed on to my children. [[Applause]] , of which I am very proud; these are values and principles that should belong to this House, without distinction. I can immediately think of what has happened in recent days: as you know, we are engaged in a collection of signatures for the referendum on justice, a very important referendum; we have sensitive issues in the field. When we are along the sidewalk - each of us continues to be militant of a political party - we inevitably find ourselves confronted with those we meet, who sign and who do not necessarily come from a political world that has put the guarantee at the centre; they come from the left and want to see and hope that something changes, that there is a reform project, not only in justice, but - for example - in public administration, and that there is a simplification of this extremely far-reaching system. In these discussions, after the question of rite "What is said in Rome" - it is one of those open questions to which it is difficult to answer, but I imagine that each of you on the territory will happen and is perhaps one of the most insidious - the first thing we are asked is how we are discussing the Zan bill. Where is the situation of despair and difficulties that live certain categories? It is really difficult to answer this question, but I will try. This is a measure that, no matter how we decline it, is divisive and also divides the parts of this majority. It is a majority born in the need to do something for Italy. This is a government more than a government of national solidarity, of national necessity, and it has to deal with two primary issues. The first is that of the defeat of the Covid-19, through vaccines and everything that is necessary; of course, the vaccine is important, but - as I felt before in a passionate and very right intervention - you have to put the treatments at the centre. We should put at the heart of our battle and our political commitment first and foremost the cure against this cursed monster and, in order to do so, we must put the health problem among the main ones. The same is true of the economy: at a time when we need to get Italy out of quicksand; at a time when unemployment is likely to come, the real one; at a time when social tensions could come to a climax, we have a President-in-Office of the Council who rightly said that this is the time to give and not to take away; this is the time to relaunch the economy. Then, economics and attempt to defeat the Covid-19 are the main themes, and nothing else. We got here instead. I do not want to join the party of goodness - let alone there are many already - but it seems to me that at this moment such a divisive subject should be treated in an extremely delicate way. Colleagues, maybe you don't think as I do or as many colleagues think, but we would have the chance - just a little, maybe a few hours, a few days - to put aside immediately and bury that ax of war that someone has pulled out, avoid talking - as we used to say in western movies - with forked tongue and go to the point, watch what the problems are. So, if you have to solve a problem, because there is a vulnus in our order, let's try to agree, let's try to find a solution. It seems here that we want to bring everything down, because we will get to the secret vote and some amendments will begin to fall. What someone wanted to bring home, the bar kept to a minimum, won't come. So, as many of you are skating on an extremely thin ice sheet, I invite you to reasonableness and calm. Let's still try to find a mediation hypothesis. The Zan bill is not a totem, it is not an incomparable provision, we are not in front of the Tables of the Law. We are faced with a measure that can certainly be improved if it simply comes out of the categories of certain fanaticism that we have also seen in this House. What I want to tell you is that the Democratic Party has also made a serious mistake. The risk is to see it directed towards a clear direction: to become the sixth star of the triggers. This is a problem you should try to come out of. Of course, I understand everything, the reasonings related to alliances, but it is possible that the Secretary Enrico Letta of the Democratic Party as the first measure, returned from France, spoke of ius soli, of Zan bill, of asset and then - as happened a few days ago - of inheritance tax? [[Applause]] These are categories of thought that belong to a certain left. So, if we wanted to try to eliminate this divisive reasoning, we would be able to do so in a moment, bringing the primacy of respect for the person and also for the family. I would like to remind you that education belongs to father and mother and must not enter through school or through politics. [[Applause]] Those who made politics know perfectly well what was happening in the 1970s, when one went to school - someone remembered - and were automatically accused of being fascists simply because one was not communists; if one was liberal, Christian Democrat or Missin, that was enough to be discriminated against. This has happened. I also understand the attempt you made to try to make the pill more sweeter, narrating that it was appropriate to include the term "disability." But if we look at the provision, we realize not only that this law has been misspelled, but also that disability appears in a single article - there is, for example, in Article 1 - and that we should also clarify what is meant by disability. Is it the invalidity of Legislative Decree No. 509 of 1988? Is it the handicap of Law No 104 of 1992? Or is it really the only disability within the meaning of Law No. 68 of 1999? There is no record of this in Articles 7, 8 and 9. I shall conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, after thirty years of legal profession (particularly in criminal matters), that our legal system covers everything necessary to prevent discriminatory behaviour from occurring - and I say this not just myself, but everyone says so - in accordance with the principle laid down in Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter, to which this provision is antithetical. And I'm not saying it, but President Emeritus Giovanni Maria Flick said it. This measure, if it were to pass, I would be curious to see how it could be countersigned by the President of the Republic, since it is contrary not only to Article 3, but also to Article 21 and to most of the articles of the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u17	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u18	Mr President, I shall try to speak on this draft law, which has been mentioned for a long time - perhaps even too long in my opinion - given the simplicity of the subject and the fact that the world is ahead and we are behind. I will try to say a few words on this subject. But at first I would like to address Senator Aimi, who has asked me for two small reflections. The first, Senator Aimi, is that we have rejected the constitutional prejudices in this House. Therefore, that you refer to this is out of place; we rejected them and therefore we are calm from this point of view. The second is that you addressed my party, telling us to be the Democratic Party and not the sixth star. You see, Senator Aimi, perhaps you escape that where there are rights, where there is respect for others and where there is acceptance, the Democratic Party has always been there, there is still and there will always be. [[Applause]] And this is in the values and roots of the Democratic Party. You don't teach us where to stay, Senator Aimi. We know exactly what we are and what we want. For example, about this bill, I see that there is a narrative and there is a reality. The narrative is composed of so many elements and I will try to retort them, one by one, having concentrated only on some. I have heard many times in this House - and not only in this House, since the debate on the measure is very much outside this House - that this is not the time and that the country does not need this bill. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you have such a low conception of yourself that you are not able to keep together the measures that the country certainly needs at this time and other types of measures, such as the bill under consideration, that it wants to protect people who wake up every day and think they are not going well in Italy in 2021. I ask you: are we able to respond to these needs? I think so. You must respond to this, because to always recall the fact that we are occupied in other does not do justice to a large part of the country that wakes up every day and feels that it is wrong. And we can't afford that. [[Applause]] I hear in this House that the measure would be divisive. I wonder who is divisive and I answer: for those who see diversity as a problem. It is not hidden from anyone that the same people who now say that this provision is divisive also said so about immigration decrees or the former security decrees; it happens that people are always talking about people other than us, who are from other countries, who are of other religions, who love people of the same sex, who are not in the body in which they were born. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: who is it divisive for? I give the answer: it is divisive for those who do not accept the other, for those who do not respect the other. The Democratic Party knows which side to stand on. [[Applause]] I have heard many times in this House say that Article 4 of the measure would restrict freedom of expression. This could be answered very quickly. In fact, if those who say so are convinced, either they are lying or they say that freedom of expression on certain issues has been denied in this country for thirty years. It goes without saying, we have said it and repeated it: this law is inspired, indeed it is an extension of the Royal-Left law, which has been saying certain things for thirty years and in respect of which no one (not even the Courts) thought there was a limitation of freedom of expression. It is very simple, then, to answer this question. Who does not want true freedom of expression in this House, then? Are they the ones who don't want people to be able to express exactly and freely what they are? Freedom of expression has been absolutely protected - you think - even when someone said "Close the ports." Dear friends and colleagues, senators and senators, I think we must speak clearly of what is written in this bill, without a deviant narrative, such as that of the wolf cry, the wolf, attention to the ogre! Somebody think about the kids. It is true, it is the family, the first fundamental nucleus of society, that must guarantee the education of children; but there is one more piece. Education is also being handed over to the school, with an educational pact that all schools subscribe to, as our President well explained in her speech on the suspensive issues last week. I'll add one thing, since it's about parents and family. The other day I was at a wedding and I heard the articles of our civil code repeated on 147: Marriage imposes on both spouses the obligation to maintain, educate, educate, morally assist children, respecting their abilities, inclinations (inclinations!) natural and aspirational; and 315-a: The child has the right to be maintained, educated, educated and morally assisted by his parents, in accordance with his/her abilities, natural inclinations and aspirations. Colleagues and colleagues, even parents have a moral obligation to assist their children, who cannot feel wrong, cannot be afraid to feel what they are every day. For us article 7 is important and fundamental, but not for what has been told in a completely erroneous way, in a narrative that resembles a beast, because they have felt monstrous things. The narration that says that there is an ogre who wants to take away our children, who wants to educate them in a certain way, is referred to over and over again, but this is what is most false. And then, dear parents in this House, try also to pay attention to the inclinations of your children, who must not be afraid of the world in which they live. In Italy, in 2021, it must be ensured that each child and each daughter can be free to be who they are. I have heard in this House that trees can be awakened in the morning and men can fall asleep, that you can wake up a woman if you are a man and you can fall asleep in another way. It's not like that. Again, let us make this clear. Have the courage to say that you do not like this bill and do not want to approve it. Don't be fooled by what our state's legislation says, which is very clear about the transition. What the senator said before me is a falsehood, it doesn't exist. The Italian legislation on gender transition is very clear. We can have various interpretations and ideas about gender identity - ladies and gentlemen - also about the extremes that this concept brings with it, but there are thousands of people who wake up every day and are not well in the body they have. We, as legislators, are obliged to consider it, to give them an answer, because for this reason they are beaten, are hated, are discriminated against. There have also been many examples, each of us can make of them. I have heard of the strangest, most monstrous ones around this subject, but each of us can do so. They don't make statistical examples. I could give you the names of dozens and dozens of loved ones, friends and friends who live and have lived daily fear, discrimination, the fact that they cannot live freely. If this seems normal to you, I wonder what you have of Italy of 2021. In conclusion, Mr President, since I have come to the bottom, I have often thought of why I have decided to support Zan's bill so firmly, I come from a Catholic formation, which I have a very precise and very particular history that has taught me exactly that people must be welcomed, must be known and must be respected. I believe, however, that each of us here must give up what we are. I'm also very lucky, because I'm a woman, I'm white, I'm Catholic, I'm nomadic and I could go on. Like many of you in this House, I have the characteristics that you think are more normal than others. I think, however, that we must leave what we are and try for three minutes to walk in other people's shoes. I don't know if you've ever done this: it's an important exercise, a nice exercise. You have to explain to me why not, because everything you have attacked in this debate, in this debate in which everything has been heard except, many times, the truth, you have to tell us why not, because you do not want, in 2021, in Italy that thousands of people can stand up and no longer be afraid, because the State must not be able to guarantee them not to be afraid. The world goes on, colleagues, whether we like it or not. We can take note of it and be up to the outside world, or continue to exploit people's lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u19	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year and a half of pandemics in which the emergency has turned government programmes upside down, dictated new objectives, pursued clearly and in a different way from the two governments and determined the consequent measures, we are now discussing a bill that has nothing to do with refreshments or support, with the Cassa Integrazione, extensions, incentives for a desired recovery, resources for vaccines, health care. To marry the emergency and the ordinariness can be done, depends how, of course. Now we are talking about civil rights. In fact, the title of the bill is not Zan's bill, because this, in fact, is the first label attributed to the norm, which carries instead "Measures of prevention and contrast of discrimination and violence for reasons based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability." The title provides us well, save then, in Article 1, to arbitrarily define these categories and leave wide margin of discretion. A careful analysis of the text has revealed insidious criticalities, which have been detected during the work of the Commission, for which I thank President Ostellari; critical issues detected not only by us parliamentarians, but by names of proven legal competence, such as Carlo Nordio, the aforementioned Giovanni Maria Flick and many other auditors, and, not least, by the concern expressed by the Vatican. A law must be done well, taking into account the consequences it can have at 360 degrees, not on the grounds of ambiguity that would delegate to the judges not the application of the law, but its interpretation. When, in Article 4, we talk about freedom of expression, if it is not suitable to determine the real danger of discriminatory or violent acts being carried out, who will decide the extent of this real danger? Who will determine where opinion becomes a threat and hate or where opinion remains an expression of a view? These are undefined boundaries, non-existent parameters that risk many gags and many processes. This measure, as it has been written, pursues the ideas and the expression of the same before behavior, and this is unacceptable to us. It is true that this bill was passed in the Chamber of Deputies. So? For these reasons there are the two rooms. There is still perfect bicameralism, despite the fact that in this legislature, even before the pandemic, it has been continually plunged into confidence, even when the emergency was not a prerogative. It still exists and the Italians decided it by voting for the referendum in 2016. There is still, in spite of constant whirling to drown it: the last, the Senate vote for eighteen-year-olds. Then, if bicameralism exists, not allowing the Senate to make changes to a measure under discussion would even be unconstitutional. To correct a text, to be able to modify it in order to improve it and thus obtain a greater sharing, especially in this Government of national unity, where a composite majority is finding convergences with the only objective of taking the country out of the crisis, means not to demolish a bill, but to give it a greater force, giving the right emphasis to the issues dealt with. It is clear that the Zan bill, thus conceived, divides the country in half. It divides this Parliament in half. Then why not try to improve it? It is regrettable to note that some political interests are more interested in putting their own flag and ideologicalizing the measure, rather than facing the confrontation to give, all together, a vote in favour of the fight against homotransphobia; a battle that must not divide, but unite; that must not degenerate the strong political contrasts inside and outside Parliament, but pursue a dialectic even burning, but always in the name of respect. [[Applause]] And this word, which more and more often disappears from the vocabulary, but which really should return to being the keyword, always and in any situation, is truly forgotten. When talking about respect in schools, this must not be confused with the theory of gender and of every form of education to sexual orientation; this is the prerogative of the educational sovereignty of the family. They do not "also have the right to morally follow the natural inclinations of their children": they have the right to do so. In fact, the school cannot replace the family, because the freedom of the individual, that is, the freedom of our children, would be distorted. POFs and programs shared with parents cannot be an instrument that ensures their exclusion. The teaching of certain theories in school must not be allowed a priori, in a clear way. Open and don't close: this is what we ask. Ideological barricades bring nothing good. We want to defend everyone's rights and fight all forms of violence, but we want to do it effectively, writing a law clearly, expressing the will of the legislator and not that of the interpreter. On the basis of our values and our liberal culture, we obviously condemn any discrimination and any manifestation of hatred against any human being, holder by definition of his very high and untouchable dignity. For this reason and to fulfil the mandate of the Government, which we strongly support, we have been and are therefore willing to agree on changes that will allow us to vote on this measure. There is a fundamental question, however, which I would like to highlight. Precisely for our culture and our values, we firmly believe that all citizens have the same rights and not that there are some who have rights that prevail over the rights of others. This measure, like many cultural measures of the left, is based on the categorization of citizens, creating precisely for this discrimination between categories and exclusion of some compared to others. With the category approach, the case studies that are being created to comprehend all are countless, almost endless, because countless and endless are the characteristics of citizens, as human beings. It is certainly not by inserting the category of disabled people who, by the way, have nothing to do with orientation and gender, which has solved the problem. [[Applause]] That is precisely the wrong approach. On the other hand, by basing legislation on the consideration of respect for all citizens, as holders of equal dignity and equal rights, at the same level, there is no discrimination and, on the contrary, there is a remedy. In conclusion, Mr President, if the stated objective of combating discrimination and incitement to hatred was acceptable and commendable, the Zan bill, which is intransigent and rigid, with which we want to pursue it, is clearly provocative, if not counterproductive. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u21	And registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to speak in this House about the draft law under consideration on the basis of a different assumption, even if it has been repeatedly mentioned by other Members: ethics. I don't think you can deal with such delicate topics, such as sexuality in all its forms and nuances, if you don't first have a concentration of what ethics means. Ethics, which has already been taught us in very remote times - the word ethos comes from ancient times - has been lost in this modern and so advanced world. Before that, Mrs Biti rightly said that we are far ahead, and yet we are lagging behind. In my opinion, however, we are ahead with technology, but "we have gone" back, we are not "we" behind. Ethics was taught and understood everything: respect for people, respect for one's body, respect for the ideas of others and for all the different peculiarities that each of us carries in itself and that make each of us our own being. I am different from my colleague Rivolta or my colleague Centinario: we are all different, but not only for our sexual gender. We are different because we are composed so differently as we think, as we feel. It is as if we wanted to try to discipline the concept of faith or that of pain: how do we calculate how much faith I have compared to someone else? Tonight I go to sleep, I have faith; tomorrow morning something bad happens to me and I no longer have faith. That of faith is a highly personal concept, it belongs to the person; for this reason it is not discriminated against. Those who are Christians have been persecuted and are still persecuted; those who are Muslims have a totally different idea, those who are Buddhist do not recognize. We have a thousand forms. The same applies to pain: how do you regulate the threshold of pain? A doctor - I have a medical daughter - asks you how much pain you feel on a scale of 1 to 10; maybe you answer 10, but you might also lie. On the basis of these comments and my thoughts, I have tried, for example, to write a bill on the establishment of the project "Ethos" which will certainly be discriminated against; it is normal, here too there are discriminations, they are part of life. Personally, I don't take it, it's all experience: the more you are discriminated against, the more you grow. Unfortunately, I grew up like this; I have no problem admitting it. I was saying, this bill that I presented brings the establishment of the project "Ethos" for the education of respect for others and non-violence. These are a few short articles, nothing exceptional; it is not so distorted in the context of why and how, it does not enter into the human soul that, however, must always be preserved, protected and above all respected. However, the text gives the opportunity to set up a project of ethics in schools, aimed at trying to make understand the importance of respect for one's body, approach with others, respect for non-violence, and perhaps help parents who have the most difficulties in this path. Ethics is not contrary to the Zan bill, which is very articulated, but in my opinion starts from an opposite reasoning: since there are so many things that are not good, let's try to discipline them. This perhaps stifles with my way of feeling; I repeat, sensations cannot be regulated. I'm not a doctor or a scientist; I don't know what it's like to feel like a woman in a man's body and vice versa. I was born a woman and I'm gonna die a woman. It's okay. [[Applause]] ; I am sorry for those who feel this thing for which I have great respect. I don't care about sexual orientation: my father taught me that in the bedroom and wallet you don't look, so honestly everyone is free to do what he wants in his own room, we would miss it. Violence is another pair of sleeves: you can be violent with children, you can be with the elderly or with those who do not have faith; you can point your finger at those who are not like you. So, in general, if we were to regulate all the sloppiness of discrimination, we would have to put aside the dozens of laws that Senator Ferrero said to be firm and focus only on this. Instead, we should let our nature go. Nature has done each of us as it pleases; we are under the vault of heaven, we have a beginning and an end, but, of course, we should concentrate and strengthen where the system is weak, trying to strengthen the ethics and certainty of the penalty, because those who delinquency and commit crime by discriminating people in any way, with any nuance, bumping the other sensibilities, are punished and the victims have justice. But not only with the torment in the newspaper rather than in the television broadcasts where they are proposed and re-proposed situations and events that so many times are nothing more than the pungolo to perhaps go and do the same thing again. No. We simply have to try to strengthen all the parts where we have this systematic weakness. And how did such weakness emerge? Especially with Covid, because they were locked in the house, they couldn't interact and talk and have been isolated. When the cages opened - let's call them so - as, unfortunately, happens, it practically let go of everything and suddenly we had episodes of violence at the extreme. This is perhaps another element on which we need to focus and focus our attention. I do not think there is a law that the Democratic Party has more interest in passing because the Democratic Party is ahead and feels discrimination, while perhaps the League is a little harder. Maybe instead the League is a bit harder and then it is not able to understand what the feelings are. And then there's the middle way, where you might find Forza Italia, who says to stay in half and proposes to stand around a table and talk. I do not think it is a matter of law, but I think it is a matter of common sense, that this issue that we have touched goes beyond common sense, that having common sense means lawmaking for the respect of all and in the respect of all there is also respect for those who want to wear the skirt in the morning and in the evening you want to wear the trousers and heels, we do not have to care at all. The important thing is that security and decency are guaranteed to all citizens, otherwise we will create many small niches depending on how we think and we ourselves will create discrimination, because, when we regulate the various sectors, people will identify themselves in that article or in that paragraph and depending on how they define themselves on that page or another. If the Lord had taken us so many and so different, he would have made sure that we could change our sex and our way of doing it ourselves. [[Applause]] Instead we are not like that, we are as God made us and we must accept ourselves, we cannot go any further, never go beyond nature. It's okay to help us, to discipline, but not to go beyond what we've been allowed to do, because that would mean really losing the concept of a human being. The important thing is to try to continue to consider ourselves human beings, with all our nuances. I was the mayor and I was called "sindaca" and I always said to call myself "sindach" because it is not a gender role, it is a role of head and heart and it will always be so. [[Applause]] I say more, and I say it here with great pride, at almost sixty years of age: I raised a daughter alone, because the man - my husband - who conceived her with me let me that my daughter was seven years old and I made it myself, with my sex as a woman, as a mother, without any problem and I am proud of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u24	Mr President, by their very nature, the younger brothers look at the fashions, the frequentations and the costumes of the older ones, and so it was also in my family, in my generation. I have a brother who lived the youth in the eighties, in practice over thirty years ago, and somehow I too breathed the air of a country like ours, Italy, tolerant and brilliant, a nation that made giant steps on the side of the costumes, almost unknowingly. At the time, they loved David Bowie, Lou Reed, Elton John, Freddie Mercury, George Michael, and no one raised the question of their sexual orientations. It was a generation that listened and participated in the concerts of Led Zeppelin in mass, without any problem on the lyrics that today would be branded as sexist. When it was the turn of Boy George and Annie Lennox, no one wondered if they liked the male, the female, or both. We fell in love with their music and voices: stop. There were no usual censor committees or professional progressives to judge or make proselytes. We were passionate about their music, about the characters, without asking ourselves what questions. Recently we participated in the departure of Raffaella Carrà: how much energy and desire for emancipation there were in her songs and dances. It has been pointed out by many that for the liberalization of customs it has done more you than many conventions and treaties. Society, in short, went on in an orderly but determined manner and did so without the need for unnecessary or even harmful laws and laws. Politics, a certain policy, with the proposal that we are discussing today has made significant steps backwards. Changes in custom and society occur when they are perceived as such by the culture of time and certainly not by a regulatory imposition. The proposal in this respect marks a sharp fall, both in the method, as has just been said, and in substance. The reservations that can be made to the Zan bill on the merits are many. The measure is normatively inadequate, legally dangerous and politically out of touch with the times. [[Applause]] From the regulatory point of view, the laws of the penal code that have protected physical integrity, punishing murder, personal injury and private violence, as well as those that protect the moral dimension, censoring defamation, slander and slander are already fully in force and do not distinguish the sex or gender of the victim; they comply consistently with the principle of equality of citizens enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution. If the intention of the law had been to protect victims of sexual discrimination, it would have been sufficient to add this need to the so-called Mancino law. This addition would have found broad agreement in Parliament and simplified the process of its approval. The suspicion is that, however, the measure pursues ideological aims, not even very veiled, that is to normalize the genderist ideology, which is the most powerful movement of thought created by the West in the last thirty years. [[Applause]] From a legal point of view, three figures are highlighted. First, the artificial definitions of Article 1, which distinguishes between sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity, which seems to be a construction of thought that responds to a predefined ideology rather than to a real social or legal need. Secondly, there is the generality of the indictment provided for in Article 2 of the Zan bill, which not only punishes the ordinary incitement, but also the propaganda of ideas and so everything and the opposite of everything could be considered by a propaganda judge, with good peace of taxability as the guiding principle of every criminal case. Thirdly, there is Article 4 of the draft law Zan, which introduces the so-called clause saves ideas: in this regard it comes to mind, by association of ideas, a famous Latin saying excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. In practice, the norm - whether consciously or not it does not matter - exposes its own limitations. If not, what was the need to include this provision? In summary, the approval of the measure under consideration is useless, indeed, it is legally dangerous, precisely because it puts at risk the most basic and indispensable fundamental freedoms that have always been recognized and protected by the Constitution and the Italian legal order. The limits of the provision are, in short, legal and political. With regard to the latter profile it is pointed out that the customs do not need any standard prescriptions; they affirm themselves in the civil conscience and become established practices and in time, when necessary, also legal provisions. We would like to impose an element that - it is reiterated - has a well-defined ideological foundation, but far from acceptable and we do not think that the aim of politics is that; on the contrary, I believe that it should be anything else. Moreover, there is a strong support for this bill by many non-political characters and the support has been given by leveraging emotional communication; it has been embellished by strange clichés from the civil fabric of the country; an operation of non-truths of which you did not really feel the need. Young - loved influencers have come into the field to uphold this law. Of course, they are very free to do so, but we have to wonder why and what the objectives of this campaign are. One thing, however, is certain: as one agrees with a rapid communication, there is no deepening in the content, but an orchestrated sensationalism from which politics should distance itself, rather than leverage to achieve its objectives. Having said that, the words of these influencers are listened to by everyone with attention, even by those who have different opinions, like me, but I would also like the words of the Holy See to be listened to with similar attention, if only because it embodies more than two thousand years of history and, therefore, its ideas go far beyond the contingency of the times. [[Applause]] Instead, it is not so: one looks at the Holy See with a hypocritical sharing when the positions coincide with the so-called progressives and suddenly the same institution returns to be obscurantist when it expresses opinions and ideas different from theirs. There is no heavier intolerance than the professed followers, to put it in Voltaire's words. Incidentally, the Holy See wanted to put formally to the attention of the Government the problem of religious freedom, educational freedom and freedom of opinion. About the bill Zan wrote Vaticanist Rusconi and, in particular, articles 1, 4, 7 and 8 are rejected without appeal. President, for Giacomo Leopardi no human quality is more intolerable than intolerance and, if there is a fact that characterizes this bill, it is intolerance. [[Applause]] It is intolerable for those who really love freedom.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our colleagues in the Group of the European Right, Mr Ostellari, for the extraordinary synthesis work that he has tried to carry out to the end, when it was also coming to a clear definition of a very clear and clear legal path to the outcome of the authoritative hearings that were taking place. It is also regrettable that there has been a change to the debate in this House because the draft law under consideration, far from being an instrument of protection against discrimination, constitutes a dangerous instrument for limiting the manifestation of thought in the matter of sexuality, in fact wanting to impose an anthropological vision at the basis of gender theory, which denies the sexual dimension of the individual. What has just been said is that the draft law is formulated around a controversial concept of gender identity, which is the basis of the gender theory, to which the promoters have repeatedly reiterated that they do not want to give up, despite several critical issues that emerged also in the limited comparison in the Commission and now also in the Chamber and highlighted also by authoritative doctrine. Among the same supporters of bill n. 2005 there were rather critical positions about the reference to gender identity, term considered vague and indeterminate. Textually we read: "the perceived and manifested identification of oneself in relation to the genre (...), regardless of having concluded a transition path". As such, it is contrary to the principles of taxability and sufficient determination at the basis of our current criminal law. It is therefore plausible to believe that the generic nature of the rules and the provision of the criminal penalty in the event of a violation would have the effect of inducing people to avoid manifesting their thoughts in public on the subject of sexuality and on all matters relating to it. These are issues such as, for example, adoption by homosexual couples, surrogate motherhood or the education of children in schools, which need - instead - a respectful and open confrontation, to protect society and its members, especially younger ones, in order to avoid that, in the absence of a debate, ideas without a scientific foundation should be shaved and the possibility of legitimately adhering to visions of life and relationships other than those that would be imposed through the exclusion of dialogue is prevented. Therefore, for the vagueness of the terms and for the use of the instrument of criminal sanction, in this case inadequate, the bill poses in serious danger the freedom of manifestation of thought and, favouring the de facto imposition of a single thought, it also conflicts with the fundamental pluralistic principle that constitutes the architrave of the democratic character of our system. Two assumptions underlying this - the social emergency and the alleged lack of regulation - appear to be unfounded. The same data provided by Oscad, the Observatory of the Ministry of the Interior, clearly demonstrate that the subject of the social emergency appears instrumental, since the same reports concerning the crimes of hatred received in the last ones mainly concern race, ethnicity and religion and only in a minimal percentage sexual orientation, which excludes that one can talk about a social emergency as it is told. From the mere reading of the penal code and the examination of the jurisprudence that has followed over the years about the crimes committed in relation to the sexual orientation of the victims, it is clear that there are not even any regulatory gaps with respect to a very clear and completed legal framework. In our order are already sanctioned the offenses, the beatings and the violence committed against anyone, any person without any distinction. The same penal code also provides for some aggravating factors, such as the disabled defense and the abject and futile motives, which in any case also apply in cases of crimes committed in relation to the sexual orientation of the victim. The draft law under consideration, as formulated, excludes or otherwise hinders the public and legitimate social confrontation on issues related to sexuality, claiming to impose a dominant thought. This leads us to believe that, if the draft law were passed, there would still be important repercussions and reflections as the limitation of freedom of expression of thought could cover all areas in which social life takes place. The area most affected, as then appears from the continuation of the reading of the articles, would be the school, where the compression of the freedom of manifestation of thought could have negative effects in terms of limiting the freedom of education of parents who, in manifesting opposition to certain teachings or activities, could be found guilty. Limitation of the freedom of teaching: teachers themselves who express opposing opinions could be accused of discrimination, even with strictly and exquisitely professional consequences, as well as legal consequences. Serious prejudice to the education of children, who would be deprived of an open and pluralistic environment, with a compression of critical skills and a comparison of opinions. The same interest in spreading gender culture in schools has been clearly manifested in various debates also public and is clear from article 7, paragraph 3, of the same bill, which provides for the involvement of schools of every order and grade in ceremonies, meetings and any other useful initiative for the realization of the purposes referred to in paragraph 1 of the same article, i.e. for the promotion of the culture of respect and inclusion solely based, however, on the theme of sexual orientation and gender identity. This article therefore provides for the establishment of National Day against Homophobia, Lesbophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, aimed at promoting the culture of respect and inclusion limited to sexual orientation and gender identity. The schools of every order and grade, according to the combined disposition of the paragraphs of the aforementioned article, are called to organize ceremonies and meetings and any other useful initiative for the realization of the alleged purposes. It is unusual to find, in a draft law that formally intends to introduce measures to prevent and combat discrimination on grounds based on sex, gender, sexual orientation and disability, a clear lack of attention to a category that would claim to protect: it is not clear why disability has been excluded from this national day. [[Applause]] and the related ceremonies and activities provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 7. Certainly reason cannot be found in the fact that there is already an International Day of People with Disabilities, as there is already International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. To be clear, this exclusion is completely devoid of foundation and valid motivation, and seems rather due to the fact that it wants to focus attention solely on sexual orientation and gender identity. I therefore hope that in the amending phase the draft law under discussion can be amended and that a summary can be found, which we have strongly taken forward. We were one step away from reaching an agreement on small and elementary measures: one for all Article 1, when we could finally move from definitions to purposes. This was an essential junction on which convergence seemed to have been achieved, but unfortunately it has gone another way; I hope that the continuation can also help to reflect on the notations that have not been carried out in a manner that has not been carried out in the Commission justice but that, from the extensive examination that is taking place in this House, they are being well represented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u27	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u28	Mr President, in the last parliamentary term I was massacred for expressing many doubts about the rule of adoption by same-sex couples. I had expressed them, I continue to do so and I ask for respect for my different ideas; I do not refer to my parliamentary group, which has always respected my thinking. Mr President, with regard to the draft law under discussion, there is nowhere, even at all, an attack on the concept of a man-woman family, yet I have heard it in this House; there is no reference to adoptions, to the uterus for rent, and yet I have heard it in this House. Despite this, this bill is used instrumentally to create electoral watersheds; public opinion is drugged by selling lies. Let's go to the bill. The Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, in equalizing all associates regardless of the differences in economic, cultural and social position, introduces the universalist idea of a core of rights proper to each individual. All individuals were subjected to the same regulation contained in the law. This Declaration marked the subsequent constitutional evolution of flexible and rigid Charters, such as ours. Equality, in fact, as an indefectible principle, is enshrined in Article 3 of our fundamental Charter in a formal meaning to paragraph 1 and in a substantial meaning to paragraph 2. There is no logical contradiction between the two paragraphs of Article 3 of our Charter. The Constitutional Court has in fact found that the second paragraph of the same article 3 of the Constitution - in addition to establishing an autonomous principle of "substantial" equality and equal opportunities among all citizens in social, economic and political life - expresses an interpretative criterion that is reflected also on the latitude and implementation to be given to the principle of "formal" equality, in the sense that it qualifies the guarantee in relation to the actual results produced or produced in the concrete relationships of life, thanks to the primary constitutional imperative to remove the limits "of fact" to equality and to pursue the final objective of the "full" self-determination of the person and participation in the community life. The principle of equality is closely linked to the prohibition of distinctions between sex, race, language, religion, political opinions and personal and social conditions. We come to the bill in particular. The amendments made to Articles 604-a and 604-b by means of the introduction of the engraving or based on... on sexual orientation or on gender identity are based on the evolution of the principle of equality. Let us take as an example article 2 of this bill, which renews Article 604-a of the Criminal Code, adding to some of the conducts referred to there the grounds for discrimination based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability. Let us understand better: currently Article 604- bis of the penal code punishes propaganda ideas based on racial or ethnic superiority or hatred, or incites to commit or commit acts of discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds, or those who commit violence or acts of provocation to violence on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds. To all this, therefore, it would simply be added either based on sexual orientation or gender identity. [[Applause]] Do we want to tell us or do we not want to say that there is a problem that still sees so many people, who have also conducted very violent, based on discrimination of sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability, or do we pretend nothing? 18.17 p.m. (Follow PUGLIA). At this point I end up with some specific observations, a little more technical, even substantial, and I get helped by a message that I received from a friend, whom I call Monica, married to children, who also likes her husband very much: "Dear Sergio, by now many years you are senator and I (but I see that we are all on the same line among friends) I tried, as far as possible, to avoid discussions on hot topics of the moment in politics, except maybe some general talk. Not so much because I was afraid to give the impression of wanting to push on personal matters (it's all about a plan of such integrity that the doubt doesn't even touch any of us), but because I thought it was right to let you breathe and think about something else, when you were among friends. That's to show you how much I fought with myself before I sent you these lines. As a mother and teacher, the debate on this ddl Zan has involved me extremely in recent months and unfortunately now I see that there is a real risk that this law will not pass to the Senate, perhaps for a few votes. I know that the Movimento 5 Stars would be inclined to vote in favour, but you will certainly also have contacts with undecided or senators who intend to vote against it. I bring you my experience, for what it's worth, and you can communicate it to whoever you want with my name and surname. The message continues: Yesterday my daughter, returning from a summer camp of the parish, who ironically has the theme of respect for diversity, told me that a fourteen-year-old boy was removed for offending one of the animators with the epithet of "rich". In my class, a 12-year-old girl confided to us teachers this year that she had always had doubts about her gender identity, as she is not recognized in the female gender. We talked about it with great serenity both with her and with the family, thankfully very welcoming. Here is a clear case in which Article 1 of the bill applies. How could a 12-year-old girl have completed a transition path? It is natural that at this moment gender is only something perceived for her; a calm tomorrow will be seen, but if this little girl today was made subject to discrimination and violence, because it is perceived male, we want to leave her without protection just because her transition path is not, nor could it still be started? I am very surprised and saddened by the use of the dramas of children and teenagers marginalized for their diversity to make politics - he wrote it specifically to me with the "p" tiny - for alliances and consensus. Even more, as a Catholic, I am based on the constant fear shown against a law to protect a weak part. Let us now come to Article 7. I can assure you that at school every year we are flooded with celebrations, days of memory "x" and against "y." In all these cases, celebrating the day and how to actually do it is the choice of the individual institution, through its collegial bodies (college of teachers and council of institute). So choices are made, also because, if we wanted to participate in everything, we would no longer have time to teach. This fear of compulsory indoctrination is completely unfounded and, moreover, the school could freely choose to limit itself to a call to respect for others and to avoid discrimination, something that every school in a civilized country can only wish to pass on to its students. The reference in the draft law to the three-year training plan and to the pact of co-responsibility between school, students and families already ensures that all the actors involved are informed and agreed; on the contrary, it is also pleonastic in my opinion. There is an excess of caution everywhere in this bill, as if the fears of people and organizations were more to protect than the minorities themselves that the law intends to protect. But they are in danger, not public opinion. It is not the first time that a gay teenager confided to me that I had to leave in places as isolated as possible to exchange a kiss, which we - I am concluding, President - constantly ask our children not to do, for their safety. I conclude by reminding you that every professor, parent of LGBT boy, parish educator will be able to bring back endless episodes of homo-, lesbo-, bi-, transphobia of which they are victims of minors. Thank you for following these long reflections of mine and I invite you again to make it the use you think most appropriate. There he is, Monica, see you soon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u29	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that Brothers of Italy decided this marathon against this bill, because, you see, this bill is not against violence, against discrimination and in favour of homosexuals. I believe that everyone in this House would agree, including us as Brothers of Italy, if we were to talk about discrimination or violence against homosexuals. I would remind you that last week it was possible to continue the examination of the Zan bill only for one vote; that is to say those who, even in the Senate Chamber, are convinced that some articles of this law had to be corrected. But as there is an ideological rage here (allow me the term) rather than an interest in combating violence and discrimination, here we are. I would like to point out that this law does not serve this purpose, but it serves to introduce in fact into our legal system (as in the case of Article 2, for example) a crime: the crime of opinion. We find this very serious. Who wants this law? Who is a slave to the politically correct, who wants the unique thought and thinks that one must shut his mouth to those who are for the natural family, based on a man and a woman; indeed, better if you can put him in prison. And I would not like some of my colleagues to say that this is not possible. I would like to quote some examples from other countries, where we have laws similar to what you want to approve. It happened to a cardinal, for example, who was investigated for saying that the family is made up of a man and a woman. It happened to a family father, who spent one night in prison simply because, going to a prolife demonstration, he had a white T-shirt with the words "Long live the family". So don't tell us, as we hear in many speeches, that it's not true that this bill wants to shut the mouth of those who are against the unique thought. You, with this provision, want to impose your model, you want to educate your model, you want to delete everything. Everything must be fluid, there is no more gender belonging, there are no more our roots, there is nothing left. We must become fluid beings. This is the model that you want to impose and to which we, with all our strength, rebel. It is the politically correct, it is the unique thought. See that what is happening and what we read in the newspapers, but above all on social media, is that those who do not feel like Senator Cyrinna must be insulted from morning to night. [[Applause]] It is not allowed that someone does not think in your own way and this is very serious. We are suffering, yes, violence, hatred and discrimination, because none of us wants to make your model pass. Speaking of these matters, we would have expected love to be spoken of; instead, in this bill, we talk of hatred, which is the most serious thing. It's about discrimination, but about your own thinking. Colleagues, take another thought. Does it seem right, on such a complicated, delicate and difficult matter, even in its explanation, to leave so much discretion to the magistrates? I'm terrified. There are so many magistrates in Italy who do their work absolutely well, with passion, dedication and equity. But we have a small part of magistrates who are ideologically and politically exposed. And I must be judged tomorrow by one of these, who perhaps in his judgment imposes his ideology, which is the same as your model? I think we should be worried about this. One thing that worries me deeply is that the rule of law should deal with the weakest, those who have no opportunity to defend themselves, namely children. Children are completely forgotten and I think it is a very dangerous drift, as is adoption by homosexuals. I remember that in Italy single people cannot adopt children, but homosexuals can. It is true that life imposes and has imposed on some of us not to have, perhaps, the father and the mother, but not by a law of the State, which decides, by law, that a child can do without the father or the mother. But do you realize what you're doing, the model you want to impose? I turn then to many women, some feminists, who fought for women's rights. But does it seem right - I make an example even a little trivial, but that is before everyone's eyes and that is already happening - that in sports competitions who, being a man but feeling a woman, can participate in women's categories? And we, sir, with all the battles we've fought, do you think physically we can beat a man, who by physical structure is stronger than us? Is this your vision? We believe that it is right to combat discrimination and violence. For us as Brothers of Italy there would be a way to fight them, and it is a proposal that has advanced Giorgia Meloni. How come Italy, and none of you (I say this to everyone) has ever said a word about the fact that we have commercial relations with countries where homosexuality is a crime and where we also punish ourselves with the death penalty, like Qatar, where there will be the worlds, or like Saudi Arabia? And how come you don't tear your clothes when a homosexual can even be punished with the death penalty? Doesn't it make you jump on your chairs? Doesn't it open a debate if we all really want to defend homosexuals from violence and discrimination? Homosexuals, proud ones, are not exploited either by gay lobbying or by you. They are also aware that this bill is profoundly wrong and then Brothers of Italy will use all the tools available to our system to fight, because I believe that if this bill were to pass, a model would be imposed that is the opposite of what we want for the future of our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u31	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I start by saying clearly that I am and will always be against all violence and discrimination on grounds of sex, gender, sexual identity and orientation. My history, even a parliamentary one, can testify to this and for those who listen to us from home this must be said, because in the debate I have heard in these days, weeks, months (as if there were not a serious economic and social crisis), it seems that everything is limited to classifying, sometimes even with arrogance and often with prejudice, who is in favour and who is opposed to the bill that we are discussing. Those who criticize the bill on our examination are attached as homophobes, without any possibility of reasoning. This is an instrumentalization, and this already gives rise to the chills, because it seems that, in place of these values, that is, in summary of the respect that must be the value of all, the right and the prosopopea to be the only holders of a truth and of the common good. I believe rather that in such a delicate, so important, ethical, valuable and social debate, the tones that should be used should certainly be calmer, full of responsibility, awareness and awareness of what is being discussed. The problem of this bill is the biggest and most obvious one that has all the wrong written laws, full of normative paragraphs and references. I am a doctor, I am not a jurist, it is true, but I have learned over the years the first fundamental rule of good law writing. The issue of good law writing is an aspect of the more general question of the quality of legislation, which has been brought to the attention of the legislator since the 1980s. It has been noted in particular how regulatory hypertrophy, with the proliferation of rules and prescriptions for citizens, families (I do not know how long this word can be said) and businesses, and the widespread state of regulatory uncertainty, due to shortcomings in the quality of legislation, both formal and substantial, have produced and produced a cost as well as for the economy, for democracy, as they reduce the effective knowledge of the legal order by those who are subject to it. Therefore, I believe that the bill in our examination flaws precisely in this: it leaves the magistrates and the judiciary ample space for interpretation. It is not the judiciary that takes over this right, it is the legislator who, as is often the case, lays down its function, does not assume full responsibility and instead leaves the judiciary wide space and the duty to decide. It also leaves citizens in a position to fight for themselves if an opinion and the expression of it is a criminal offence or not. So much so that the questions come to mind are many. Will it be a crime, for example, to recognize the family as a natural society founded on marriage? Will it be a crime to say that marriage is a union between a man and a woman? Will it be a crime to say that it is unacceptable to generate through the uterus for rent, because it is barbaric to use the woman's body as a mechanical incubator? Will it be a crime to accept a man who feels like a woman on a women's soccer team? Will it be a crime not to include a man who feels like a woman in the pink quotas? I quote the case of an acquaintance, a friend of my daughter's, who, in order to get hired for an internship at a large investment bank in London, a multinational company that reserves quotas for gays, has pretended to be gay, taking advantage of their intended shares. That is the real disrespect. That is the lack of rights. The chaos that will arise, if this law is passed without change, will be this. Did anyone ask these questions to themselves? The ideological fury behind the Zan bill, confirmed by the unmistakable firmness with which a political party says that no, it must be approved so, it does not stop at anything, even in front of children, that should be left out of the political debate. Children must be taught respect for everyone, for human beings, for animals, for nature, because, respecting others, we respect ourselves, as well as respect for our values and ideas. Children should not be exploited as it has been done to support the approval of a bill. We must teach to respect diversity, because each of us is different from the others. Each of us has the right to be respected. This is what must be taught in school, starting from the school of early childhood: not the gender or the pink and the blue that must be banned in favor of the orange color. We have seen the failure of the orange kindergartens in Holland. It takes away from the family, with a law, the educational responsibility, especially in such delicate issues, whose knowledge depends on the degree of maturity of each child. The fact that in Bologna, on the occasion of the Gay Pride, the organizers paraded wearing a bishop's mitre, trampling with red paint the faces of various characters, including the Pope, in your opinion is not clearly detrimental to the democratic principles necessary to organize a public demonstration, which does nothing but promote hatred towards Catholics and politicians who have taken sides against this bill? While Italy and Europe are experiencing a real emergency linked to the decline in birth rate and demographic winter, "L'Espresso" has published a cover in my opinion inappropriate, if you can still say, for the International Day against Homophobia. Can I continue to argue that I firmly oppose the concept of pregnant man or will I be accused of homophobia? Not the strength, but the constancy of a high feeling, makes the superior men. Remember that. What would happen if the Zan bill were passed to the Senate as it is, without any change? Small demands, substantial, and the law would be passed in a week, as has been said by various representatives of the center-right. Now, among the controversies of the supporters, which I do not know how to list, since in my opinion they have had even too much visibility, we have had a very concrete proof. It happened that Antonio Tajani, vice president of Forza Italia, said that the family for us is the fundamental core of society, that must be defended and that our policies have always been in support of motherhood. For example, in the recovery plan presented by the Italian Government in Brussels, there is a substantial part on kindergartens. We will continue and continue to go in that direction. Now, do you feel that you have heard in this statement some homophobic attack, discrimination, intolerance, an offense to the LGBT community, a reduction in the rights of gay, lesbian and transgender freedoms? I don't think so. Yet he immediately shouted at the scandal and at the crime of opinion and resulted in a flood of attacks, only for having remembered that the family is a fundamental nucleus of society and that it must be defended. The family: what everyone obviously wants him to die, taking with him the culture, art and traditions of our country. You want to dissolve the strongest social institution. The Italian families are about 25 million. I have heard in this House that we are in 2021, as if respect for human beings had to have a temporality: it is in 2021, it will be worth five years and it was taught five years ago. Do you think there's enough law to stop people from being insulted? We have proof, because otherwise prisons would be empty. This is a badly written bill, which makes more ambiguous situations that do not need ambiguity, defends the rights of some, attacking those of others. Is that his purpose? Is that what you want to teach? To this bill, as it is, I say no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u33	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u34	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the substance of this measure, I would like to leave to the House some reflections on the President of the Justice Commission, Senator Andrea Ostellari, also, but not only, in the light of the unfair remarks made at the last sitting. In the meantime, I would like to express - and I am convinced that I can do so on behalf of a large part of this House - my solidarity with the President for the ingenious, instrumental and unfounded attacks he has received. [[Applause]] At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation to you for the way in which you have conducted your role as President, especially in the management of this affair. I express this appreciation not by party taken, or because it touches me or it is my duty to do so, but because I was there: I saw, I listened, I followed and I can say that he conducted the work in a responsible, balanced and really with so much common sense. Indeed, for the enormous effort he has made to reach an agreement, which was then carried out by our leader Romeo and, until a few hours ago, by our political leader, Matteo Salvini, I want to express a deep admiration for President Ostellari, because he put in place a political action, which was also beyond the institutional role he plays. Politics, which is healthy and good, usually tends to unite, and even more so, when it comes to rights, as in this case. A country and an institution unite, they don't divide. Unfortunately, colleagues from the Democratic Party, Free and Equal and the 5 Star Movement, you have divided everything that could be divided. In the end, you divided the atom and divided the country. Arcilesbica said that the bill under consideration is not good and the Holy Father said so too, said jurists, constitutionalists and many associations. I have a doubt: you probably feared that the hearings could be held in the Commission, because in this way you would have discovered that much of the country was against the bill under consideration. [[Applause]] You have also divided Parliament and you have divided yourselves. The center left is divided, the stomachaches in the Democratic Party are now known, as are known the stomachaches within the Movimento 5 Stars. You have proposed, in your view, a revolution in terms of civil rights and you have even put yourself in the hands of Ciampolillo. You want to make a revolution in the country, but you have rejected a suspensive issue thanks to the late Ciampolillo: let's say that the presuppositions for a revolution are neither in the content nor in the method. [[Applause]] I was then impressed by the fact that President Grasso made his speech at the last sitting. The President expects maturity; it is expected that the road towards a unified, common sense, mature solution will be indicated. No, it wasn't. There was so much disbelief. True, then, what is said: preach love, but spread hatred. This is not good at all. Stop, come down with your feet on the ground and let us try to offer hundreds of thousands of people a useful law that adheres to their aspirations, to their needs. If anyone were to ask me if we were in favour of a law against discrimination against homosexuals, transsexuals, lesbians or people of any sexual orientation, I would say yes. If someone were to ask us if we were in favour of a law against freedom of thought, bringing gender theory into schools, invading the lives of children, even talking about gender identity, I would say no. That yes and that no are perfectly compatible, because a law that limits the freedom of expression of thought and invades the lives of children has nothing to do with protecting against discrimination of any kind. [[Applause]] What is the solution? We remove the children from this dialectic, we do not allow the Mancino law to be extended and therefore there are further restrictions on the freedom of manifestation of thought; we clear the field from ideologies and flags - I dare say from the political brands that at all costs you try to impress - and we put the rights at the centre. The right to love anyone; it has been said: we are all ultra favorable; the right of opinion, the right to grow serenely. Children must not be asphyxiated by this will of yours; they must be able to play and dream and, when they become adults, they will decide on their lives. At the same time, there is the right of parents - which also becomes a duty - to educate their children according to their family address, and that is not what we say; the Constitution says, which reads in Article 30: It is the duty and right of parents to maintain, educate and educate their children. Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights states: The State, in the exercise of its duties in the field of education and teaching, must respect the right of parents to provide such education and teaching according to their religious and philosophical beliefs. You cannot snatch this right from your parents, which also becomes a duty. Eliminate the whims, let's talk about rights. Take away the whims because the fact that you can have an identity, a perception at will, is a whim, does not concern a right. And I come back to what President Ostellari had proposed: there was and there is still the possibility - we hope until the last moment - of putting in place a law of civilization, a law of common sense. We have dealt with Article 1 (via gender identity), Article 7 (via gender theory from schools) and we are talking about Article 4, but this is a rather grilling custom: to identify a vague, indeterminate criminal case. You will remember someone in the Chamber of Deputies who had supported the theory of the vagueness of criminal law, while it must be the exact opposite, because the criminal law must be clear, punctual and precise, for a simple and trivial reason: because when you wake up in the morning you must know what is lawful and what is not, and Article 4 of this text does not allow it. [[Applause]] It is possible to work with the tightening of penalties for the cases already foreseen; an extension of the spectrum of cases has been proposed which can complement violations, violence, discrimination to be combated and can be worked on this side. I'm gonna finish. You who are there on the left have a great responsibility: you risk undermining a law and therefore penalising all those people who, especially from you, expected a response of common sense, concrete, civilization, effective. The biggest person responsible is the Secretary of the Democratic Party, who is first of all not respecting this Parliament; he is not taking into account the various sensibilities that have emerged with so many arguments. But above all, he has no respect for this institution, since he is preparing to join it, unless he decides to take the route of the Eiffel Tour, where he may be able to return to do what he did before and which has made him far worse. I come to one final consideration. Last week - I say this with respect, but with firmness - I saw several rainbow masks between these benches, now I don't see one of them anymore and I don't know if it means anything. I even see the empty benches, so obviously your interest in this bill is getting worse and worse. I mean, you can wear 10, 100, 1,000 masks, but if you don't help bring home a good law for these people, you won't have done a good service to the country or to these people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u35	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u36	Mr President, I have heard in this House that this bill is not necessary, I have heard that we have other problems. Well, Mr President, someone tries to tell those who are bullied, those who are discriminated against for their feelings, for their nature; someone tries to tell those who are forced to suffer the fear of aggression, of beating and are prevented from going out, living their lives freely, to show themselves as they are. Being discriminated against for lack of work is just as serious as being discriminated against because you are women or for your sexual orientation or because you are disabled, because social rights and civil rights are together, because our life, the possibility of achieving us is more things together, all indispensable: being able to study, be able to work, be able to love. I do not come from a secular formation, but from a Catholic and communist personal formation and I know that this provision is important because it responds to a question, to a social need, not only individual, because widening protections and civil rights always means widening protections and social rights, both together allow to fully realize their own existence, their own life plan. Here is the urgency of this law, which speaks of lives, of existences, of everyday life, of the future to be able to build, in particular for the new generations who feel on their own skin the theme of discrimination, intolerance as a burden on their existences. This law contrasts discrimination and violence related to sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability and would suffice this title to enclose and make them understand the importance. It is a law that extends the protections because those that so far exist in our system are not enough and the differences, even the new ones, must be named and recognized and must be protected, and this is what we are doing with this law, in the midst of the pivotal article of our Constitution, Article 3 on equality. This law identifies new cases of equality harm and openly opposes them, because in order to defeat a crime, an abuse, we must talk about it, be aware of it, denounce it, not be indifferent or pretend nothing like someone else does in this House. [[Applause]] In this House there is sometimes indifference to this enormousness and to what it means for the life and existence of those who suffer it. Since 2013, 1,294 victims of homophobia, 186 in the last year. The month of June 2021, just passed, was the most homophobe ever: 19 episodes, for a total of 30 victims, one per day, attacks on individuals, groups, couples, like the one reported yesterday by two girls, Francesca and Martina, attacked on the beach. June is the month of the Pride and many of these episodes happened against people who went or returned from the demonstrations. It is also increasingly worrying that these cowardly attacks are affecting increasingly young victims, in some cases teenagers of 12 or 13 years, violence and hatred in some cases leading to suicide: this is the case for two very young boys of eighteen and thirteen years of a few weeks ago. An endless series of episodes, with girls and boys beaten up, covered by insults for a nail polish, for the way they dress, for a rainbow bag worn, for a hat with the LGBT sign, for a kiss exchanged, for an outpouring on a bench or for an adolescent complicity accused of homosexuality: fracture to the nose, rupture of the jaw, cranial trauma, rupture of the jaw, stalkerization on social. There is a site, "omofobia.org" which collects every day every data of this escalation throughout Italy. Colleagues, these things must be seen and read one by one and, in the face of this enormousness, I ask you what else we are waiting for. Every day lost is an insult to the whole country because, if one of us is discriminated against, we are all discriminated against. That is why this measure must be approved as soon as possible, as voted by the House, after a debate that has been extremely wide-ranging, after a profound rewriting that has already been carried out. To change it again, to start again the parliamentary process would mean to bring it down and to give it to the right, which this law has opposed and opposes, and I absolutely do not say it with pleasure, but with regret. It would mean giving it to those who have always tried, with all their strength and with an instrumental and reactionary attitude - as has also been seen in the debate in this House - to bring down this law, as evidenced by the 700 amendments of the League. Other than mediation. This is the obstruction of those who do not want this law and want to drown it forever. Yet it would suffice to stand for a moment in the shoes of a humiliated and offended boy and there would be no doubt about the need to approve the law as soon as possible and I am convinced that the forces that supported it and voted in the House must have an open and clear political responsibility to approve it definitively here in the Senate, without any further changes that would put its contents at risk. The country needs in fact a law of civilization and this is it, while removing the reference to discrimination against gender identity would be a huge mistake, a step backwards of decades for our society, because gender identity, that is, feeling and living different from what is written on the identity card, is a gigantic theme, which concerns the subjectivity of everyone, the existential complexity, self-determination and must be respected. Already in 2015, the Constitutional Court spoke of the right to gender identity as a constituent element of the right to personal identity, which fully falls within the scope of the fundamental rights of the person. That is why gender identity is now everywhere in our legal and international systems. To remove this reference would mean to eliminate the protection of homosexuals and transgenders that the Constitutional Court has recognized since 1985; it would mean to go back forty years, empty this law and move from a good law to a wrong law. Mr President, in conclusion, I want to say that it is enough with falsehoods on this text, which in no way limits freedom of expression, because no one can exchange freedom of thought or speech with incitement to violence. Freedom, in fact, is always based on respect for the dignity of others or becomes overwhelmed, especially at this time where the web amplifies hate speech and creates a climate hostile to minorities. President, this law does not bring any gender indoctrination into schools, but promotes an education aimed at the respect of every person in his/her emotional and sexual diversity, as the school of inclusion and differences should already do. In an appeal sent to all MPs and senators they wrote many Catholic personalities and associations gathered in the project Jonathan. It says that the day of May 17 can become an opportunity for education to social respect for younger generations. President, that's the way it is. Pope Francis affirms in his encyclical amoris laetitia: "Everyone, regardless of his sexual orientation, must be respected in his dignity and welcomed with respect, with the care of avoiding "every mark of unjust discrimination"." President, that is what we are trying to do with this law because prejudices, stereotypes and discrimination can destroy a life and undermine a democracy. We have a duty to avoid and counter it; we have a duty to protect everyone's life and the democracy of everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not use all the time I have for my speech because, given the sensitivity and importance of the issue under discussion in the draft law, I would not like to use many words, which could also be exploited. I shall therefore confine myself to a few technical exceptions. Given that the noble end that the law would like to achieve is not at all in question, the bill, however, is not acceptable in the part in which it is based on the assumption that, to the protection of the interests provided for therein, it can proceed through the instrument of criminal law. As it is structured in this part, the draft law Zan, regardless of any valuable choice I made at the beginning of my speech, lends its side to problems of constitutional legitimacy, as it would introduce, as is well known in authoritative forums, incriminating forecasts without the requirements of certainty and fiscality. This is a very serious and dangerous phenomenon. The other principle based on the actual offensive conduct that is intended to be punished would also be called into question, as it would be very difficult to draw a clear line between the genuinely deprecable and damaging manifestations of thought of the interests which are intended to be protected and the others which, on the contrary, constitute a free expression of thought and, as such, fall within the fundamental principles guaranteed and protected by the Constitutional Charter. Finally, as the common experience now before everyone shows, the existing and abstractly applicable criminal rules - already in the code of rules that can be applied to the cases covered by the Zan bill - have demonstrated and shown all their limitations in terms of prevention and education. Rather, on the basis of a different approach, instruments suitable for the profession and against these discriminations should be based on principles of civilisation and educational and cultural processes based on respect for the human person as such. Dear colleagues, Italy certainly needs laws, but they must be done well and for good, and not that they have the presumption of protecting certain inviolable rights of people, but that unfortunately, in some cases, they fail to achieve the objective. The situation we are discussing and which is covered by the draft law now before us certainly requires further attention and further consideration and also further amendments. This very delicate and complex situation, as many of my colleagues have illustrated, certainly deserves not to be escaped with doubts, which have been raised both from the constitutional point of view and from the current criminal law. For these reasons, with all the intellectual honesty that these situations require, I declare that the draft law must still be deepened and amended. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called Zan bill is first and foremost a mistake, not only because it is clearly and clearly illiberal and unconstitutional in its substance, but also because of the way in which the Senate is dealing with it today. It was a mistake to insist on speeding up the process and not just because this is a divisive measure. I believe that at least we all agree on this: it is not Parliament divided on these contents, but it is the Italians and the civil society that is currently trying with great difficulty to resume their destiny, together with the economy of the country, and to rebuild. I think it is clear to everyone that this will also be possible thanks to the vast majority who have taken on their responsibilities and wanted to put their faces in order to restart the country. What does this have to do with anything? It has to do with the fact that this vast majority is an opportunity for the country - I believe it - but on condition that it does not play with ideology and try to find what divides instead of what unites, because - forgive me and do not insist - the chorus of urgency does not stand. [[Applause]] There is no urgency and even, in the face of an urgency that is not there, one tries to legitimize and impose an inertia on this House as never before. On ethical and freedom issues it has never happened that one of the two Chambers has imposed itself not to take care of it and to stand by (or - better - it has already happened, but during the fascist regime). And so, now we would like the Senate to fail its duties, endorsing what is being passed on to us by the House of Deputies. We are talking about rights and protection, but the real problem is the unique thought that we would like to introduce with this bill. It is claimed that it protects homosexual couples by giving new rights, but there is nothing more false and misleading, because here the theme is not to protect people in conditions of weakness, which is a duty on the part of a secular state: in this norm the ethical-educational intent becomes ideology, assuming a further bully in the excessive will to define sexual identity. The country did not need this, because the climate of hatred - to which the colleague who spoke earlier also mentioned - I fear that it also has as its origin an absurd debate that someone wanted to mount in the country, with the complicity of famous characters. Today any kind of physical or moral violence is absolutely pursued and it is certainly not the Zan bill that will stop it in our country; instead, a serious civil society and responsibility on the part of a policy that can give cohesive and shared indications. Italy needs this today: a clear and shared indication, not a division like that which is being born within Parliament. Unfortunately, its proposers know that the Zan bill, as it is set up, becomes a Trojan horse for the introduction of the unique thought, making our - and I do not say this at random - an illiberal state, which none of us can accept. For these reasons, the introduction of the crime of opinion evokes fascist and totalitarian regimes. Woe to those who continue to say that it is not so and to make the superficial one that is given it as an interpretation that has nothing to do with reality, which does not help the legislator (in this case, the Senate Assembly). I repeat that it is unacceptable for us that those who do not conform to one's thinking should be prosecuted and condemned, as homophobic. Today any thought other than the one gender is homophobic, and already this should induce everyone to think well about what we are going to meet. Gender ideology does not aim to defend people, young people or adults who are, who live in a problematic way a conflict between their own body and their own psyche, but to confuse reality, making the subjective overcome the objective, with the idea that no one is a man and no one is a woman, but we are all in the process of becoming. This is also unacceptable. [[Applause]] One cannot bring a subject that has, yes, to deal with problems, single or even diffuse, that must be dealt with with with great responsibility by those who have to deal with it, and of which the legislation must take charge, but that has nothing to do with the idea that instead it must be considered criminal any thought other than that gender, also because at least fifty-six gender identities have been catalogued (they tell me that this happens on Facebook). I repeat: fifty-six gender identities that are clearly independent of sex. The respect and recognition that we owe to affectivity other than the natural couple, however, what do they have to do with all this? And what does it have to do with children, who would like to grow up by educating them to an absence of certainties and roots, forgetting that the right to educate belongs to the family? If it is a question of finding additional protection under special conditions, as well as increasing any condemnation of potential violence, physical or moral, I believe that none of us will miss our support and we will all do our part. If, however, the will becomes the introduction of the unique thought gender, with the impossibility of thinking and affirming the priority role - this yes - of the natural family, then we can only oppose it, for the sake of reality and freedom. Finally, I do not understand colleagues - and I am addressing those of the so-called left - this rigidity and this unwillingness for constructive confrontation. It doesn't make sense, because we are talking about people and situations that all need less than being put at the center of a climate that our country sincerely shouldn't live. We should all be concerned to adopt a rule which is widely shared by Parliament, as well as by the Italians. It is a serious mistake, ladies and gentlemen, not to try, as ideology is preferring to common sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u42	Mr President, after a long debate, the positions of the League are now clear and linear: we are for the respect of the rights of individuals, provided that the laws are respected. We are for the respect of the freedom to choose how to live your private. We are about to reject, ladies and gentlemen, and condemn all forms of hatred or incitement to hatred and the bill we are talking about contains these principles, but also others, like real distortions, which even involve children, children and families negatively: that is what concerns us. You see - I turn to that part - I come from a small country in the hinterland of Liguria, where Sandro Pertini was born and buried, the Partisan President, who, if he were sitting in this Chamber today, would probably be at our side to fight the crooks that PD and Movimento 5 Stars support. [[Comments]] Yeah, I know they burn. I also have a special title to talk about these things, for the history of my family, so I invite you to listen. Probably, if he were in this House, with what he did and with the contribution he made to our country, Pertini would be here to fight your twists. It would not be here against the values of natural life, that which the Creator has given us, those values on which, thanks to the sacrifices of many, our free society is founded. Think about it and try to reflect by remembering the past, because the time has come and there is the possibility to reverse in self-protection with respect to content that is not good and that, in conscience, even you do not share, on which you can find a way out and a solution: that is what we pursue. [[Vivaci commentati]] Any form of protest is permitted. I remember that once a donkey was taken to court in a regional council in our country. If we go to interrupt on these things, you probably don't even have to do it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u43	Senator Bruzzone, let's take it as hyperbola. [[Comments]] In short, the Presidency is speaking, as always to moderate and protect those who speak and those who listen. In fact, I was speaking with my colleague Mr Bruzzone and I did not interrupt him, even though his colleagues behind him interrupted and discussed with other parties. Be sure and be sure that, as always, the debate is protected against everyone. So there is no need to intervene or to make replacements in person, especially with this Presidency. Please, Senator Bruzzone, it was a rhetorical figure, my hyperbola, which I see has not found the appreciation of this House, but I cannot regret it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u44	I assure you, Mr President, that it is enough to go over the chronicles; I have referred to true facts. I also thank you for the time that has been the subject of this interruption. I believe that all together we must therefore reject all forms of hatred and incitement to hatred. Here I am forced to wander for a moment, but staying on an important track. I am obliged, also because of the role I play and because this is unfortunately the only stage that allows me to do so, to draw attention to how almost 1% of Italian citizens are treated daily, who are not few, who pay to carry out an activity to which on average is connected about 0.8% of national GDP. I assure you, it's not nice to hear what I'm about to say every day. I read, because it is all certified by banners, posters, videos and television broadcasts (in some cases also mom RAI has sided with hate): "You are ignoble worms"; "You suck"; "41 murderers died: thank you for being dead, especially the young ones." "We want the Vespasians on their graves." I'm talking about posters and banners that go into fashion in this country over the last few years. Now I come to explain myself better, dear Simone: "Hunter and fisherman, same m., same smell"; "When a hunter dies, we drink at all hours" (affidavited in a city in the form of a funeral manifest); "That Saint Covid exterminates you all" (we are not talking about four, five or ten people, one here and one there, but about 1% of Italian families, that is, Italians to whom a family corresponds); "We don't give a damn about dead hunters." "The hunter is a man of m. and they must all die." "The good hunter is only the dead one," "Hunter? Three meters under the ground." Two days ago, in Tradate, there was a puppet hanged with a call to those who practice that type of activity. A few years ago - I close and then I take back the thread of the speech - when the President of the Regional Council of Trentino died, for a heart attack during a hunting trip, manifestos of joy for his death appeared. Believe me that it is not good to see violent vandalism every day, not one here and there, but constant and coated in the country, by extremist animalists who enter private property and destroy authorized rural structures. Well, all these Italians, about 600,000 (with their families), suffer in silence these things, because you have never heard of them. [[Applause]] That's why it seems like I'm digressing, compared to hate and hate incitement. But why is none of you talking about it? Maybe because some political party is okay with that? I have never heard anyone recriminate or refer to acts of hatred and discrimination or violent acts that constantly and daily take place in our country. Perhaps - no one is offended, because that is my thought and I think I can express it freely here - why do the spiritual envoys of this hatred also sit in the Chamber? I do not want to provoke anyone, Mr President, but I consider certain draft laws to be extremist. If you present a bill for the extreme protection of mosquitoes or mice, I think you have a certain vision, that perhaps spiritually comes a little closer to those episodes as well. Well, we have some doubts. I deliberately digressed, not because I think it is right to reason to include these things within the Zan bill, which pursues other objectives, on which I paused at the beginning, but because sometimes it takes someone who reminds public of these things and who takes into account that the world of rurality and the rights of those who pay regional and governmental taxes to carry out an activity deserve to be respected and not to be trampled on and to be the object of a truly bad hatred. I am part of that category and I assure you, Mr President, that hearing you say "You are a murderer, you must die tomorrow" is not pleasing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u45	Senator Bruzzone, we followed you carefully. Because of the role that I now exercise, I remind myself and the House that we have set up a Commission precisely to investigate and highlight all hate practices. We considered it so important that this House voted for it. [[Comments.]] I believe that we must take note of this collectively. However, I did not intend to open a conversation with the Presidency, but to call us all to the responsibility of the acts we approve in this House. [[Comments]] Ah, was that an exhortation, President Romeo? Adjuvandum? Thank you, you are always welcome by the Presidency. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u46	Mr President, in reading this text, I believe that you too have raised the same problem. Is this a necessary text? I read Article 1 (and you will be wondering more about it than I am): is that classification really necessary? If I have to defend women today, from the point of view of preventing certain violent incidents against them, do I define them? No, I don't have to. I would like to recall an episode that happened to me thirty years ago, as soon as the law on sexual transition came into force. In changing sex, I had to determine, as a judge, whether a person could and should be operated on. The technical advice that had been prepared claimed that it was not mature, because it had not done activities that could denounce its actual will. I managed to make a measure in which I argued that sex - in that case, as in these - was not necessary to identify, nor was it necessary to carry out any activity. Therefore, with that measure I identified the gender identity to which you refer, as some judgments of the Constitutional Court have done, which you also refer to and which, however, are interpretative rejection judgments, which are of no technical and scientific value. Is that first article necessary? In my opinion, no. I have to say that I very much appreciated the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, who, together with Mr Zan's draft law, identifies the two situations that are the basis of everything and which certainly involve all the definitions contained in Article 1. What are they? Homophobia and transphobia. Why, then, should we insist on reaching a text which must contain definitions which do not serve the purpose of preventing that hatred which we say exists, but which feeds on women? And then you need to find a compatible solution. Of course, I can think of legislation that is only for some other situations. The first question, then, is to check the attitude and behavior to be punished. In the previous debate on the Zan bill, I mentioned a problem: in our criminal system is there incitement to criminals punished as such? No, our criminal system believes that if I instigate the president to kill a friend of hers, but she doesn't, I'm not called to answer for the incitement I've committed. This is because the incitement to criminals is not punished, since the code Rocco, that is the fascist one. And you want to punish incitement to criminals. I am referring to Article 115 of the penal code, which talks about incitement to criminals, but does not provide for their criminality. Instead, Article 414 of the penal code provides for the punishment of incitement to criminalise as such, when it is public, and it is a clear and correct thing. So imagine going to translate these principles into the text at our examination. That would be perfect. Beginning with the Mancino Act, which amended the 1975 legislation, and begin to include public incitement, public incitement. Is that new? No, because those who were present in the past legislature, such as Senator Cucca, who was a member of the Justice Commission, know that we had identified a wording that everyone agreed with, including the Democratic Party. That was the news. The rule was to punish those who behave wrongly from the legal point of view, and to do so seriously. Read for a moment the standard you have written and put your problem. You talk about who instigates someone else, and when the latter has done nothing, you have to punish the instigator? Read the first article you wrote. How's it written? Does that mean that, if the instigator did not commit violence or even discrimination, the instigator is still punished, do you realize that? He suffers a criminal penalty. And that's what you call the normal possibility of incitement to behavior that doesn't affect opinion? I'm not asking you to make a worse revolution, I'm asking you to correct it. You see, Mr President, I have tabled, together with other colleagues, twenty amendments in all, but some are repetitive in relation to the rules contained in the text, in order to make the same changes. I urge you to read them, to realize how I tried, by making an effort to interpret, to change those same rules according to regularity, to the law. This means doing what we should all do, not imposing our own will, because it must necessarily pass in a certain way. It was sufficient to take note of the fact that, in Article 9, a law is cited which has been amended before the draft law Zan was approved in the Chamber, amending Article 105-c, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020, converted, with amendments, by Law No 77 of 17 July 2020. And you do not realize that, subsequently, Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020 came into effect, which, in Article 38-a, further amended Article 105-c. This law must therefore return by force to the Chamber and not by individual choice, but because there is no longer the point of reference. Reading the norm, I went looking - and so I noticed - to check what this article 105-c was and so I found that it no longer exists, but it did not exist even when this law was passed by the House. That's the difference. So, of course, the correction has to be made. The question is, does it take so long? Is it true that it took me a few hours (say three?) to prepare all the amendments, but if we start to debate, in two or three hours we will be able to produce a correct text. Don't you want to do it? It means you want to hit someone's opinion. That's all. If not, in fact, I want to be struck and sanctioned for a behavior or an act detrimental to the person who is attacked or even his dignity, through the elimination of any discrimination. If you do not intend to, it means that you want to approve the text of the House, but you know that it is not so: you have to go back to the House. So let's try to do the correct correction. This is the only way we can reason in terms of behavior consistent with our function. If we do not, it means that we want to abuse, both those who say that this bill must be voted as it is, and those who say that this bill must be, not approved, but eliminated. Both of them are in the wrong position. We must have the courage to intervene in order to make the sanction that we want to introduce effective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u47	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to clear the field of all misunderstandings, I want to say strongly that, for myself, everyone is free to love whom he wants and that whenever acts of intolerance towards all minorities are manifested, they must be condemned and severely punished. And if anyone offends or assaults them, he's just an idiot and as such he must be punished. Having said that, I say: we remove children and schools from the law. Even just to think that in the education of children you can replace the family (precising that I do not speak of the traditional one, so we also avoid being polemics) is, in itself, a cultural aberration. For some, for example, young children must be educated on how many and what sexual orientations exist, so trying, in my opinion, to manipulate their emotional growth, which, fortunately, will have its natural course during growth. It will then be, when the State grows up, that it will have to intervene, making available to them every possible form of psychological, emotional and economic aid, so that the discomfort vanishes, guaranteeing everyone their place. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u49	Collegi, please, I invite you to let Senator Ripamonti continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u50	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is actually all day long that Senator Mirabelli's body language has satisfied me: do not stop him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ripamonti, don't take advantage of it now to fit in immediately. I ask the Senators of the Democratic Party Group to allow us to listen to Senator Ripamonti. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. That's why we are ready to vote on this bill and we have no foreclosure about how it's right to punish the jerks I was talking about and all forms of intolerance about sex, race, disability and religion. [[Applause]] You can't deal with a problem through a criminal law. It's like saying we don't know how to deal with the problem, so a judge does. Which is how to say that I condemn you, so much then there is the appeal; if anything, then there is the Cassation and, if you are then acquitted, who cares if in the while you have been to the pillory for ten years. There is too much discretion in the interpretation of the rule. This way of solving the problem can never be the real solution. It is clear how this can affect freedom of opinion - it seems clear to me - leaving a wide, indeed very wide, space to the discretion of the judging body. I do not share this, Madam President, especially today, when the debate on justice is very much on. If the objective is a more just justice, the space for discretion must be ever more subtle, never wider. We are working on the aggravating factors, as my colleagues in the Commission have rightly pointed out, and with them many other colleagues across the board. Well then he did President Ostellari to remember the times when the law was dealt with in the Commission justice to the Senate, clearing the field from the instrumental positions of those who wanted to avoid the confrontation in favor of the castle at any cost. To President Grasso, who is not in the Chamber today, but, replying to President Ostellari, he began by speaking of truth, as if he were the only guardian of it, I say that he tells his truth and that the displeasure with which he addressed President Ostellari clearly shows how upset he is still by his lack of election to that role: today it would be appropriate for him to metabolize it, looking to his left for the reasons for that defeat. [[Applause]] The front of those who would like to change the law, to make it of everyone, not just of some, and to ensure that this is not an ideological manifesto, it becomes increasingly wider, even among the ranks of the center-left. There are a lot of distinctions now. In this regard, I would like to quote only one, taking up a sentence, or a little more, extracted from a much wider interview, which convinced me and moved me at the same time. The sentence is from Senator Pharaoh, who, interviewed on the Zan bill, says: It is precisely because it has to affect abuses, crimes and abuse, it must be well written and not give rise to interpretative doubts. This is the task that we must entrust to the law. Period. (...) Do we want to expand our rights or settle for the flag? I have no doubt what to do. I invite everyone to read his interview, released as a senator, but as a father first of all. Even for the reasons very well set out by my colleague we have repeated several times to the Democratic Party that it would be necessary to have a serious debate on this issue, removing the divisive issues and leaving the establishment of a law that we are all ready to vote on. Unfortunately every single opening and every single proposal made by us, but also by many others, in order to approve the law with the vote of all, have inexorably collided with the wall erected by Secretary Letta, which makes us think there is a more strategic choice than of common sense. Its positioning leads me to make a couple of reflections. The first is that, at the end of these months of clashes on the text, perhaps it has come to metabolize, understand and realize that, as it is, it is not the best possible, so its conscious fortification will determine the death of the bill in question, but at the same time it will give satisfaction to that left area of its party and its alliance, avoiding an internal war and moving it outside the perimeter of the center-left. Happy him, good luck. The second: no agreement to please Conte, the man of the thousand carpenters, who, according to the Henry from Paris, is the right ally to defeat this Legist center-right, leaving out, in my opinion, two very small details. The first is that the market area to which they turn is exactly the same (so, good luck) and the second is the mistake of underestimating the ambition of the former people's lawyer. But it is known: to posterity the arduous sentence. But I have a lot of faith in the Democratic Party and its people, believe me. I am sure that, as soon as he has the chance, as he did for Zingaretti, he will unload it, to the cry of "Bed hello, hello, hello!" Maybe right after the defeat on the Zan bill. "Dad you're an X," my kids told me. We senators are defined by the new generations and the influencers of turn as boomers or generation X, because boomers are the people born from the Second World War until the mid-sixties, so those who have lived the age of the economic boom, followed by the generation X, of which I am part, because it includes the born from 1965 to 1980, and then arrive at the last ones, which are called generation Z, which are the real digital natives, those that compare themselves on the web. We boomers or generation X, according to young people, are those who label, who define people in categories; instead they identify them as people, no longer between males and females because a person can feel something else too. Then, perhaps, new youths can come to think that our position on the Zan bill is justified that they can be free to insult minorities, without being punished for it and who knows what other nefariousness. Look, young and revolutionary - I tell the kids, and I tell my kids, in fact - we all were, more or less. But I'm sure the real polar star that should guide people of all ages is respect for every difference, whether it's gender, race, etc. etc. Defining a male or a female, a homosexual, a lesbian, a Catholic, a Jew, a Muslim is not a discrimination for anyone, but only a trivial definition, useful to emphasize those differences that exist and that so much you want to defend; but with this law, as it is, this can never happen. To the Z generation I say that I grew up respectful of others, with my ideas consolidated over time: like everyone, as a boy I thought I had every truth in my pocket, I felt strong and bold, but never and never felt the need to insult, to ghettoize people for their sexual, religious or other orientations. The real difference between boomers and Z generation lies in the different exposure of information. During our youth there were few information we could access; for you, boys, on the contrary, they are endless, you are bombarded every holy day. On issues like this - because you are certainly less ignorant than we are or less ignorant than we were - use this amount of information to compare them, matchatele; listen to all the thesis on the field and do not be intimidated by the opinion of those followed on social media. On the contrary, question them because often - not always of course - less noble intentions lie behind them. Remember that it's only a matter of time and sooner or later boomer will become too. I like to quote a closing phrase from a well-known radio programme on air this afternoon: everyone has the right to have an opinion, but everyone has a duty to inform it. That is why I say that I do not care what the opinion will be, as long as it is a child of this premise. I would like to conclude with a wish, Madam President, which is completely personal, believe me. As with this law, the confrontation with my children has been lit - I must admit, very lit - but there can always be and regardless of the topic and the respective positions, sometimes important and complicated as in this case, but always with a single objective: to offer them the possibility of having the opportunity to have their own opinion without imposing it either as a parent or as legislator. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u51	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u54	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are living in an historic moment when the sacrifices made by young people are completely different from those of our age or of our parents' age. You fight less and you get everything too easily. This lack of dedication leads the new generations to abandon everything to the first difficulties. In Italy, the share of the population with a tertiary degree continues to be very low compared to the European Union, but fortunately this is not always the case. In conjunction with the victory of the blue footballers at the European Championships, a young athlete emerged. It's her that I want to talk about: she has shown healthy mens in healthy body and that taking care of your body, leading a healthy life to have a lucid mind, careful to exploit 100% cognitive skills, can lead to exceptional results. This happened to her. His name is Dalia Kaddari. He was born in Cagliari on 23 March 2001 as a Sardinian mother and Moroccan father who has lived in Sardinia for thirty years and is a merchant. Integration in Italy is possible. Compliance with the rules, assimilation of Italian laws, right to education and work, example of perfect integration: Dalia points out; she is beautiful, was Miss Quartu, city where she resides, and is very fast, Italian champion of the 200 meters. He starts at an early age with basketball and then his instructors understand his talent for athletics. The Italian Sardinian sprinter delle Fiamme gold, a sports group of the State Police, still conquers the first tricolor jersey, which consolidates its second position in the Italian list of the category. She was second over 80 students in 2015 and so on. His was a collection of trophies: the last, in chronological order, is the silver medal won in Poland to European teams. The gold flame athlete recorded his personal record on 200 metres at the Golden Gala, which is also worth the European record under 23, the third chrono ever for an Italian on 200 metres of women's floors, and won the gold medal. When Prime Minister Draghi posed for the official photo with the European Cup won by the Blues, he wanted Dalia at his side. Dalia, a water and soap girl, always smiling, an example of constancy and determination, preferred sport, competition and sacrifice at the parades; the champion of the 200 meters, true pride of Sardinia, the third fastest Italian ever. May Dalia, President, be an example: she has learned the sacrifice, respect for the family and for her neighbor, love for sport, she leads a healthy life to make the most of her ability and give the best to school and university. Tenacity and stubbornness will project it in Tokyo with the super nourished blue patrol. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u57	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, on 20 July 2001, exactly 20 years ago, Carlo Giuliani was killed in Genoa in Piazza Alimonda, on one of the darkest days for our Republic. That square where he died was renamed by his companions "Piazza Carlo Giuliani, boy," because Carlo was a boy of twenty-three years and shared the dreams, hopes, anger of many of his and our generation; a boy of twenty-three years struck by another boy of twenty years, victims both; two boys who faced each other when in a democracy should never have happened. They should not exist, in a democracy, barricaded and should never have faced themselves as enemies protesters and forces of order; two boys for both of whom we feel pain, despite different destiny and different responsibilities. In those days, twenty years ago, in Genoa there was the G8, the meeting of the greats of the planet, and in Genoa thousands of girls and boys from every continent met to ask for a more just world. Those boys had nothing to do with the black suits of the black blocks that plundered and devastated the city without anyone stopping them. Those boys wanted to make the powerful in the world hear their voices, but they were silenced by blind repression. It was an abuse of power, an exercise of violence against an entire generation. Many who were there never recovered from what they suffered, from what happened in those streets, in those squares, in the horror of the night of the Diaz school and the Bozeneto barracks. Those boys were tortured by those who were supposed to protect them, as determined by the judiciary. It was torture, as the police chief Franco Gabrielli said years later. It was the night that our rule of law was torn apart by those who should defend it, by those who swore on our Constitution. I think we must remember that, I think that politics must do so, particularly those who, like us, believe in the civil and democratic function of our security forces. Never more servants of the infidel state, never more violence and referees, never more facts like those of Genoa or - it is news of these days - facts like those of Santa Maria Capua Vetere or like those that happened and that led to the deaths of Stefano Cucchi and Federico Aldrovandi: they are open wounds and we have the duty to say it, because there can be no justice without truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u60	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, all of Europe has been through an insidious atmospheric disturbance these days, yet another one; in Germany a real catastrophe: 165 victims and disasters all around. By now the frequency of these atmospheric phenomena has reached permanent war levels. The alarm was already launched at the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit in June 1992, in which it was understood that the consequences of a productive system and life styles incompatible with natural equilibrium would cause disastrous phenomena such as those of these days. My speech today wants to be the voice of the many entrepreneurs and inhabitants of the territories affected by the various natural disasters that all of us, at different times, have heard and lived. Alive is the cry of help that yesterday has risen from the province of Foggia, from Rignano Garganico, from San Marco in Lamis, from San Giovanni Rotondo, my territory, that has lived hours of great fear and has risked also to count human lives; danger fortunately escaped, thanks to the courageous rescues. Now you're on the damage count. Many farms are heavily damaged and crops destroyed; considerable damage also to the road surface. Urgent restoration measures are now needed. Yesterday everyone was on the field, trying to save the salvageable: Civil protection, firefighters and ordinary citizens; all intervened at the side of the mayors, always in line to face every emergency; many hours, without stopping; men driven by spirit of service and passion, who all the time make heroes of them. My unconditional thanks go to them. Yesterday, I too came together, as soon as I learned of the seriousness of the situation. For me it was important to share those moments, important the solidarity and sharing of the burden of problems in order to find together the possible solutions. In my heart and mind I have those images, those faces that I now share with you, because we all have to make sure that the recovery is quick and real. Indispensable is the work of a concrete and responsible policy, at all levels, but also of operators in the various honest and rigorous sectors. I hope this will happen soon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u63	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, the intense rains that affected Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg on 14 and 15 July have caused catastrophic floods with serious loss of life and damage for several billion euros. A territory of 50,000 square kilometers has been upset: Schuld, Insul and Sinzig destroyed worse than in a bombing. We hold in a solidarity and fraternal embrace with the peoples affected, not only virtual, given also the sending of our Civil Protection. Many have associated this with extreme weather phenomena, triggered by global warming due to man-made greenhouse gases. In reality, unknown alarms, urbanizations around the rivers or even inside, harnessing them, diverting them, tombing them, as well as heavy agricultural work are the mix that, combined with climate change, has transformed an intense rain into catastrophe. Floods were expected, but the alarms of the monitoring service seem to have been ignored or underestimated by the local authorities. Violo, president of the National Council of Geologists, affirms that the problem is not the particular intensity of precipitation, but the hydrological and morphological response of the territories, urbanized without adequate planning. It echoes Pasini, climatologist of the National Research Council, who says that, to the excesses of cementification and extraction, nature responds disintegrating inadequate banks and taking back its spaces. When designing a work, future climate drift scenarios need to be taken into account. We know the causes: increased greenhouse gases; deforestation; agriculture and unsustainable farming. We can, therefore, do something to reduce the harmful effects of this activity. It is necessary to prevent, mitigate and reduce hydrogeological failure and adapt territories and buildings to the new climate. We need to restore river ecosystems and recover the spaces that we have stolen from rivers with devastating consequences, in line with the European Biodiversity Strategy, which commits states to renaturalising and reconnecting at least 25,000 kilometres of rivers by 2030. There is an urgent need for an integral ecology. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-348.ana.u65	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 21 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
