ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 20 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u4	The following draft law was presented on 21 October: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021 on urgent economic and fiscal measures to protect labour and to avoid differing needs" (2426).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u7	PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House to observe a minute's silence for the deaths we have had in the last few hours in Catania, which is under a storm, whose number, unfortunately, will increase because there are still others missing. I do not know whether the Presidency can accept my request.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u8	There is no doubt that the request can be accepted. We naturally join in the mourning of the people affected and, therefore, before we begin our work, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2381. The rapporteurs, Senators Briziarelli and Mr Quarto, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Briziarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking not only the Government - and especially the Secretary-General, Mr Bini, who followed the measure and the President of the Commission - but also all my colleagues. It is probably an unusual fact, but I think it is important to frame the measure under consideration, considering that, on a single amendment of the almost 300 presented, there has been a moment of tension and division, proving that on a text such as the one we are going to convert into law there was, however, a communion of intent and vision by all the Groups of majority and opposition. And it is not in a way that I stress that Parliament has actually improved a text already good and shared by all the majority forces, giving some more insights on a subject that has seen us - as it must be - united as Senate and the same I imagine will also be in the House. As you all know, the measure is part of a particular moment that is not only that of the last few years, but also of the summer just spent, which has recorded fires and dramatic situations that have involved and unfortunately united the whole country, with over 150,000 hectares gone literally in smoke. We had to intervene, and the Government did so bearing in mind, of course, a particular step, which is that of the competences of the Regions. A framework measure was therefore needed to prevent and intervene, unfortunately, as necessary, while respecting the role of the regions and municipalities. And this has been done with a measure, of which I will illustrate the first three articles, which wants to provide an overall framework of reference. This is why Article 1 provides for a National Plan for the Coordination and Governance of Forest Fires, which, by regulating a new State Programming Instrument for the Coordination of Forecasting, Prevention and Active Combating Forest Fires, wants to go in this direction. It is aimed both at technological updating and at increasing operational capacity. The National Plan is valid for three years and can, however, be updated annually, as a result of any changes and related appropriations. The Plan referred to in paragraph 1 is approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, after agreement in the unified Conference and in agreement with the following Ministries such as the interior, defence, economy and finance, technological innovation and digital transition, the Mezzogiorno, the territorial question, ecological transition, agricultural, food and forestry policies, regional affairs and the autonomous. Already the number of ministries involved gives the measure of the complexity necessary to intervene, to develop first and then to implement such a plan. The implementation of the Plan is carried out within the human and financial resources available to existing legislation. I'm opening a parenthesis now. This time, apart from the amendments adopted in the Commission and which come to the House as amendments of the Commission itself, there will be agendas that all political forces wanted to be strongly shared with the Government. These are not agendas that invite the Government to consider the possibility: for the intentions and the commitment that the Commission has made with all political forces, in fact they constitute a concrete appendix to the measure and they will see the same Government committed to include in the basic text of the budget law some resources to give concrete implementation, because unanimously signed, and voted in some cases, in the Commission. They will form an integral part of the text. Therefore, the human and financial resources available on this measure will be used, but the Government has undertaken to allocate them even when approving the budget law. As approved by the Commission, the Civil Protection Department shall, on a three-year basis, monitor and evaluate a set of profiles such as satellite technologies for the integration of forward-looking systems, surveillance, monitoring and detection within the framework, as well as the need to strengthen the air fleets, land-based vehicles, equipment, equipment, personal protective equipment for the purpose of strengthening the capacity of state aid to predict, prevent and actively combat forest fires, taking into account also a possible common strategy at European level. The Commission has introduced, in order to cope with the capacity to prevent and actively combat forest fires, the enhancement of the land resources of the National Firefighters Corps, the Regions and the organised civil protection volunteer qualified for this activity, including the training of personnel involved in the active fight against forest fires, including the rescue activities of the animals involved and the information and participation of the communities, with particular attention to areas with a high risk of forest fires. I would like to point out that there has also been a communion of intent on this since the hearings, so much so that the involvement has concerned from environmental associations up to the direction booth of the hunting associations, that is, all the subjects, including universities and the law enforcement agencies and the institutions, which have very often contributed to the very drafting of the amendments adopted in the Commission. Paragraph 3 also extends to the Ministry of University and Research the adoption of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, as provided for in the same paragraph. Here, too, we have had the presence of valuable national and international representatives who have supported the Commission during the hearings. Paragraph 3 adds the forecast that the Ministry for Regional Affairs and Autonomous Affairs will convene by 30 April of each year the unified Conference on the state of update of regional plans for the planning of forecasting, prevention and active control activities against forest fires provided for by Article 3 of Framework Law No 353 of 2000. The Commission has foreseen that, in the context of the resources allocated, the National Plan may also allocate part of the funding to encourage reward schemes proportional to the results achieved by public and private actors in areas where a significant decrease in the areas covered by the fire has been established. We consider this particularly significant. Paragraph 4 provides for the first phase of application, prior to the agreement of the unified Conference referred to in Article 8, the adoption of a first National Shipping Plan prepared on the basis of the reconnaissance conducted by the Department. The Commission, by means of an amendment, has provided for the possibility of guaranteeing the safety and safety of the territories by the hydrogeological risk of roads, bridges and viaducts, as well as of safety and energy efficiency. In fact, in addition to a prevalent part relating to fire risk, the measure also devotes a part to civil protection interventions. In addition, as approved by the Commission, the forecast that, in order to increase the operation and functionality of the National Firefighter Corps, the duration of the course of training of the competition procedure for access to the role of the team leaders, with effect from 1 January 2020, for the vacant number of posts, is exceptionally reduced to five weeks. Here, too, I would like to point out that all the groups have tabled amendments, reflecting the fact that there was a unit of intent on this, as there was on the adoption of the rule on the possibility of a public competition for 250 firefighters, which could in fact give substance to the provisions of the measure. On this again, trying not to abuse the patience of the President and his colleagues, an aircraft fire surveillance system (SAVA) was set up with an amendment to allow the integration of this mode into the fire alarm system. Article 2 allocates 40 million euros for the purchase of operational means and equipment for the active fight against forest fires, which are distributed in 33.300.000 euros to the Ministry of the Interior for the needs of the National Corps of Firefighters, in 2.100.000 euros to the Ministry of Defence and in 4.600.000 euros for the needs of the Command forest, environmental and agri-food units of the Arm of the Carabinieri. In Article 3, measures are introduced to ensure the timely updating of the land register of overhangs by fire. I would like to point out that, apart from individual belongings and sensitivities, an amendment has been tabled on one of these two articles, in particular on Article 3, by the rapporteurs, for whom we are waiting for a rewording, which we can accept in this House, which goes in the direction that we all imagine we can perimeter and proceed with the bans as soon as possible on the land concerned. At present, a period of sixty days is expected, but we hope that a period of forty-five days can be accepted in the latest version. I shall begin by concluding with a final passage on Article 3, first of all by passing the floor to my colleague. There are of course updates that are published simultaneously in a specific section of the relevant institutional land sites, because the date of 1 April for all was excessive and a more timely communication was needed. We have managed to find a summary and to see it approved in the Commission, which we hope will be improved in this House. The time limit for applying the relevant prohibitions obviously remains the same, while it is the beginning that changes. Finally, the possibility is introduced in the Commission that the Regions may, by their own law, have measures to implement alternative actions in case of inertia of the Municipalities regarding the publication of the definitive list of onslaughts carried by fire; if the municipality does not publish it and does not approve it, obviously there is a problem and it is right that the Regions can intervene. Paragraph 4, last of article 3, leaves to the Command forest, environmental and agri-food units of the Arma dei carabinieri and to the forest bodies of the Regions to special statute the compliances referred to in article 10, paragraph 2, of the framework law. The results of the monitoring shall be communicated to the regions for the purpose of the timely operation of these replacement powers. I leave the floor to Mr Quarto to explain the remaining articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Quarto.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u11	Mr President, the measure we are debating and approving today, although it is monothematic, is quite complex. It concerns a problem that has plagued the whole Nation this summer, and in particular the southern regions, with over 150,000 hectares of forest burned. I too join the co-rapporteur in thanking him for the excellent understanding that we have managed to put in place. I thank the entire Commission and the offices that have supported us very well. Article 4 sets out measures to strengthen forest fire forecasting and prevention activities, through measures to strengthen regional plans, and by allocating specific funds under the national strategy for inland areas, to finance actions to prevent forest fires in those areas where the risk of fire is high and in municipalities located in the smaller islands. We know that this is an extremely critical problem for the abandonment that takes place in the internal areas. In paragraph 4, the Commission has provided that, in the national operational plans implementing the Structural Funds 2021-2027, aimed at the safety and safety of the territories, animal protection shall also be taken into account. This is another extremely important point. Article 5 sets out measures to strengthen active control and sanctions and amendments to Framework Law No 353 of 21 November 2000. In particular, in paragraph 1, the Commission has introduced the new definition of urban-rural fire, meaning that type of forest fires involving areas, areas or bands in which there is an interconnection between man-made structures and natural areas, where the urban and rural systems meet and interact. This is another extremely critical aspect, because many times fires start from the very outskirts of the city. It is also established that the Regional Plan for forecasting, prevention and active action against forest fires, among other things, areas treated with the prescribed fire technique. It should be pointed out that, as approved in the Commission, crop operations must take into account the specificities of protected areas and habitats of conservation interest. This is another very important point for the protection of the environment and protected areas. In addition, the active fight against forest fires involves the use of manual equipment and the technique of fire. So in addition to the prescribed fire, we have a fire. The bans are then strengthened and others introduced, such as the harvesting of undergrowth products, for three years banned. It is possible for municipalities to make use, without new charges for public finance, of the technical support made available by the structures of the Region or other entities having the necessary technical skills. This is another extremely important problem, because we know that many times the municipalities slow down the availability of perimeter of the overhangs run by the fire, with serious problems that are felt by prohibitions actually activated after a few years compared to the fire that affected the area. The Commission considered it appropriate to adjust the sanctions in euro and increase some of them. Then there is something quite interesting. Article 6 intervenes on the crime of forest fire provided for in Article 423- bis of the Criminal Code, introducing an aggravating circumstance, when the facts are committed by those who carry out fire prevention tasks, and two mitigating circumstances for those who, in some way, cooperate. In addition, with reference to Article 423-a, it is specified that the legitimate use of the prescribed fire and fire techniques that can cause a fire avoids that the person who caused it can be punished with imprisonment from four to ten years. Many times this prevented the use of techniques that can stop the fire. The provision also provides, in the event of a conviction, for the applicability of the ancillary penalties of the prohibition to negotiate with the public administration, of the termination of any public employment relationship and of the ban on the taking of fire prevention duties, in addition to the mandatory confiscation, even for equivalent, of the profits of the crime. Article 7 sets out further urgent measures in the field of civil protection. Paragraphs 1 and 2 provide for the redefinition of the procedures for carrying out the institutional activities of the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology - to be understood, as regards seismic and volcanic monitoring - by providing for multiannual agreements implemented by means of conventions of at least two years duration. In paragraph 3, the Commission specified the extension from 31 December 2021 to 31 October 2023 of the duration of fixed-term contracts and other flexible forms of work, as provided for in the contracts. Finally, with regard to anthropic interventions for the reconstruction of wooded areas, the regions can identify in the same basin bare areas, that is, solid land to be subjected to compensatory reforestation of burnt areas: this is another extremely important measure. To this end, the regions may make use of the scientific contribution of universities and research. Article 8 contains financial provisions: to be precise, it allocates 150 million from Mission 2, component 4, of the PNRR to measures to combat forest fires, and in particular for the implementation of an advanced integrated land monitoring system. This is also an extremely important problem and last summer we saw how useful it is to make real-time monitoring - there are so many means, for example the infrared - of the impending fire. In relation to paragraph 1, within the limit of 150 million euros for the realization of the measure to fight forest fires referred to in this decree, the Ministry of the ecological transition evaluates, by common agreement with the other administrations concerned, to allocate additional funds of the PNRR in favor of actions to fight fire emergencies, including the interventions of territorial restoration, assuming - according to what approved by the Commission - as the priority of the intervention the national and regional protected areas and the Natura 2000 sites - we always speak of greater environmental protection - as well as the areas classified to hydrogeological risk in the planning of current basin. The Commission has also specified that the provisions referred to in this decree are applicable in the Regions with Special Statute and in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, compatible with the respective statutes and their implementing rules. Finally, Article 9 provides that the decree-law in question shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u13	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, the measure under discussion is certainly part of all the necessary acts to enable better management of environmental protection practices. And it introduces some important elements to combat the fight against fires: I am thinking - for example - of the introduction of more resources for the purchase of means necessary for the extinction of fires; I am thinking of the tightening of penalties for those who cause fires. The measure also introduces a national prevention plan that enters as a coordinating element in the legislation between the State-Regions competences. If we look more closely at the measure, however, we would like to point out that in our opinion there is a risk of not facilitating, but rather complicated, the drafting of the Plan in some respects. I am thinking, for example, of the composition of the technical table and the high presence of representatives of the various ministries, which is not easy to mediate between all positions. It is therefore necessary to speed up the technical committee's capacity to act, on the one hand considering a reduction in the same composition, but on the other hand involving agricultural associations (at least the most representative at national level). At the same time, care should be taken to ensure effective coordination between the National Fire Plan and, for example, forest management plans or regional forest supply chains. We must also pay attention to the way in which the National Plan is issued, which - as we know - is linked to a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, to be adopted - as I said earlier - at a table with too many Ministries, which could delay its adoption. Above all, I would like to point out that the analysis of the measure shows that we are talking about prevention, but in terms that are not entirely adequate and not completely decisive. Colleagues, prevention - as we know - is different from control and intervention. I would like to give examples: fire lines, the increased maintenance of forest and rural roads can represent a small part of the prevention, but this cannot be enough. The real prevention, colleagues, is overturning a paradigm introduced to date - I say it clearly - by an environmental ideology that wants to manage nature completely self-managed by the same; the same ideology that has been formed in the good living rooms of that environmental lobby - I say lobby with precision - that loves to walk on the paths, but little or nothing knows what it means to live and work in the mountains or in the woods, and for which nothing must be done because it wants to leave everything simply to the management of nature. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. We need to think about this. Prevention is mainly done by allowing human intervention, as our ancestors have done for centuries, those who preceded us. The management of the forest must start from its conscious and sustainable use. I am going to tell you - for example - something that may seem trivial: the wood must be cut and cleaned, it cannot be left to itself. Regional and municipal constraints often prevent the proper management of the forest, without thinking about all the constraints of the superintendence that often blocks everything regardless. All this is causing an increasingly important abandonment on the part of forestry companies. Our lumberjacks are increasingly strangled by an asphyxiating bureaucracy that does not allow them to do an already hard job. It is therefore necessary to make their work simpler in order to enable them to survive. Their work does prevention: let us not forget that their work is prevention. As well as prevention is done by agricultural farms of cultivation and breeding. If we do not allow such farms to survive - and I stress survive - there will be more and more abandoned land, uncultivated areas and subject to fires. Returning then to the reasoning and paradigm to be reversed, it means precisely allowing our foresters, farmers and farmers to carry out their work not only as such, but just as the first environmental guardians of the territory, especially in difficult areas such as mountain and forest. Unfortunately, all this is lacking in the provision to our examination; there are no precise references in it that can identify, especially in the productive subjects, the first actors of prevention. However, I would like to make a further reflection, adding that there is a wrong attitude on the management of wildlife, which is also based on a fundamentalist view of the environment. It is not possible to impose a ban on hunting in the municipalities adjacent to the territories where the fire has developed in a clear and unconditional manner, as was intended in the law. While we can also understand the ban in the areas involved in the fire, we do not understand why we must stop the management of wildlife in other territories, in fact increasing its often harmful presence for agriculture and the environment itself. [[Applause]] This also denotes a wrong attitude. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, while appreciating a measure that introduces - as I said at the beginning of my speech - certain positive elements (the resources, the tightening of penalties and greater coordination), there is still a lack of a vision of overall environmental management, which takes into account the positive contribution that only human activity can give to difficult territories, especially mountain and forest areas as a whole. The problem is precisely that, President, and I conclude: despite the fine words of which the center-left and the Movimento 5 Stars fill their mouths for the environment, for environmentalism, there is in reality no overall vision. Beyond the slogans, there is no real and integrated planning of the management of the environment and of man that - I remind all of us - is also part of the environmental system. Most likely, even this time, we missed a chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u15	Mr President, government representatives, fellow senators. the problem of forest fires is a matter which Parliament has already dealt with in the past. It is fair to say, even briefly, that this is one of those areas in which several sectors are involved and have been involved in the past, so much so that, before 2000, there was extremely fragmented legislation that Parliament, years ago, decided to address in order to try to give a more logical and more useful regulatory organization, especially in the fight against forest fires, in order to provide for sanctions, therefore, with a sanctioning - even strict - approach to those who had caused the same fires. Well, this summer - but it has also happened in the past years - we had to realize that also that law, passed in 2000, therefore twenty-one years ago, unfortunately, was not suitable to deal in the correct way a problem become really serious for the environmental balance of our country and especially for our forest heritage, that, especially between July and August, has suffered a particularly serious damage, caused by the fires started dolly or beatingly by human behavior. It is then surely to be applauded - I say this to my colleague who criticized the present measure just now - this regulatory intervention by the Government, and then the Senate, through an important work of the Commissions gathered, which took place even at times when you could not come here to Rome. Yet, there have been several calls that have involved so many senators sensitive to the call of this problem. I have heard it, I have heard some discussions which have certainly generated a series of measures contained in Decree-Law No 120, launched by the Government last September, which tends to respond to a problem that actually exists and for which the framework law of 2000 had not found a comprehensive solution, or at least satisfactory. A particular attempt has been made to remedy aspects already contained in the previous law, which obviously needed further study, further regulatory intervention. I am referring first of all to the question of forecasting: how can we expect fires to be set on fire in our forests or in any case? The theme of prediction is fundamental. There is also prevention: how is it possible to prevent the development of fires? I have something to say about this; it seems to me that the colleague of Brothers of Italy also referred to this aspect, on which I think something should be said. I am referring in particular to the care of certain forests and certain woods which, of course, if abandoned to themselves, if not cared for, can be more sensitive and fragile than a fire that can arise and spread. The third question is how to punish, punish, strike those who cause these fires and, above all, how to put them out as quickly as possible. These three aspects are certainly essential in order to meet a need, which is not only environmental. Be careful that people and animals die in the fires and there are workers who lose their jobs. This is an overall issue and this needs to be taken into account. I am proud to say that I am particularly sensitive to environmental issues and my colleague, Senator Alessandra Gallone, knows this very well, so much so that I am the regional manager of my environmental party. Since always, since I was a kid, I think that keeping our natural environment intact and above all handing it over to our descendants, to those who will come after us, is our absolute duty. We are not in fact the masters of this temporal space of life of our planet and therefore we must deliver it, at least as far as possible, as we have received it from those who came before us and however we must ensure that the process of industrial development is sustainable compared to our environmental heritage. So let us see what is being regulated by this measure, including how it will be adapted by the work of the senators. We try to offer more opportunities and resources and, even at a technological level, to adapt to changing times, to current climatic situations, beyond how everyone thinks that it is true or not that there is a warming of the planet and that temperatures are increasing. We all know that there is some scepticism on the part of someone, but it must be acknowledged that there has been an increase in fires and, in particular, at certain times, for example last summer, there has been a spread of frightening fires. I only remember the days of July and August. On 31 July and 1 August I crossed the A14 "Adriatica" motorway, from Puglia to my region, Abruzzo, and I crossed something like 15 fires. I heard from the mayor of my city, Pescara, that in Abruzzo, only 31 July, there were 37 fires at the same time. All this makes me think there's something weird about it, about it. To think that there is even a direction and that everything is driven seems a little 'too much, also because I do not believe, honestly, that there are gangs organized to start at the same time even 37 fires in one regional territory. I think, however, that there is something that we do not fully know and that must undoubtedly be addressed. We must therefore try to adapt our instruments to changing times, including through satellite technologies and the integration of forecasting, surveillance, monitoring and detection systems into the environment. Above all, it is necessary to equip those who are in charge of the burning of air vehicles, with both fixed and rotating wings, and also the so-called drones. I therefore believe that in this way much more can be done than has been done and then I will talk about a specific case, which concerns Pescara, my city of residence. This also applies to land resources and training. Just this morning I had the pleasure of meeting the Prefect League, which has the responsibility of the fire department: I see here the Undersecretary and it is his competence to deal with the fire department. First of all, I congratulate him on his choice, because he is a prefect of the highest cultural profile. You yourself told me that it is indisputable that something more must be done and that we must have more instruments. Only one Canadair was used to put out the fire in Pescara in the dannunzian pine forest. But that pine forest is not only a forest and environmental heritage, it is also a cultural and historical heritage for the city. That must be said. Some woods are not only an environmental expression to be preserved, but are also something more, like that of Pescara: on that occasion a unique heritage was lost. I think that we should give an answer, including through the budget law, as the rapporteur said. Even where the fires have caused seemingly irreversible damage, even if we expect thirty, forty, fifty years to restore the old forest heritage, we must immediately apply ourselves and ensure that the procedures, the length of time, the problems that bureaucracy sometimes poses are absolutely avoided and that the economic contributions to restore the existing forest heritage, through the new planting, are paid immediately. Similarly, in protecting and forming integral reserves also in urbanized areas, we are careful, because the fact of not curing a forest, as happened, for example, in the case of the Pescara reserve that I mentioned earlier, the Dannunzian Pinewood, certainly represented one of the concauses that caused the incineration of 90,000 hectares of native forest, which were a heritage - I repeat - not only environmental, but also cultural for the city of Pescara. Let us, therefore, also do so through contributions that make it possible to heal wounds so serious inflicted on our forest heritage, but also cultural. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u16	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u17	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 120 of 2021, containing provisions for the fight against forest fires and other urgent measures for civil protection. In this House, there has often been discussion about the existence of the requirements that are fundamental to the decree-laws. It has been discussed about the lack of the same, about the inopportunity that the Government - according to someone - delegitimizes Parliament by abusing an instrument in some cases without having, according to critics, the requirements to adopt it. In essence, the choice of the way of the urgent decree has always been much discussed, in reversed roles, depending on the role that is played in the government. However, periodically, whenever we find ourselves converting a decree-law, the discussion almost always concerns the inopportunity of choice or the lack of requirements. The very brief debate that has taken place so far - which, however, has also seen a representative of the opposition speaking - for the first time in my experience as a Member of Parliament has not overcame the lack of the requirement of necessity and urgency; this, in my opinion, because we all have clear in mind what has happened this summer: the drama experienced throughout our Peninsula, the enormous damage, the suffering of animals and people. However, in the doubt that someone is still not convinced of the opportunity of this choice, I want to remember some newspaper headlines: Fires and desertification. Got in smoke 150,000 hectares of forest. ==References====External links==* Official website Fires: +256% of stakes in the summer 2021. ==References====External links== Smoke 158,000 hectares of forest. Wantedly, in recalling the articles, I have limited myself exclusively to those who have referred to the areas, because I did not want to exploit the suffering that we have seen in many animals, literally burned alive, in the eyes of the people, victims, too, of the tragedy that struck us this year, and of the companies destroyed by these events, brought to their knees and in some cases even bent definitively, so much so that they will probably not be able to recover again. Without considering the suffering of all those who have worked actively to try to limit the damage of this drama. All this demonstrates the fact that this measure is not only appropriate, lawful, legitimate and necessary, but also urgent. That is why I do not understand why part of the House and the majority have tried to create obstacles in the process of approving this measure. What puzzles me, to say the least, to put it mildly, is Amendment 1.52 (text 2), which, in such an important debate on such an important subject, seeks to introduce the prohibition of hunting. For God's sake, I am not questioning its ideological legitimacy and I am not taking a position, because it is not my intention to do so now, but I think it was wrong to introduce this issue into this debate. I know perfectly well that in the ten minutes I have available I could not convince anyone on a subject so deeply felt and rooted in the minds of all of us; therefore, I am not talking about merit, but about the method certainly, because the opportunity to speed up the process of approving the conversion of such an important measure, in my opinion, would have had to exclude the will of any divisive intent of this majority. However, I would like to remind you of the position taken on the subject not of the League, a political party or a specific sector association, but of two associations representing hundreds of thousands of farmers, thanks to whom we daily have food on the table and thanks to which we are rightly and legitimately famous all over the world for the quality of our productions: I am talking about CIA and direct cultivators, who have spoken persistently against this measure. I leave it to them to judge on the merits, but in the method I once again highlight the inopportunity of a measure that today in the Commission had as a result eleven votes against and eight votes in favour, the latter by the Mixed Group (essentially Leu and others) and colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, with the abstention of the Democratic Party. Therefore, on a measure shared by 99 per cent, deemed necessary by all and there is no doubt about the need to try to reach its approval as quickly as possible, we have arrived at a vote of eleven to eight to three. This, in my opinion, shows clearly and unequivocally how little it was appropriate to try to divide the majority on this issue. Having highlighted the only note dolens, the only negative aspect of the current debate for me, I want to enter into the substance of the measure: a measure - as I have already said - important, in my opinion well done, but as always it can be improved. Everything can be improved, but thanks to the overwhelming majority of the House and therefore to all colleagues to achieve the best possible result in part, this has already been done, thanks to the many amendments tabled, some of which, at my first signature, have been approved by the Commission, and in other parts - I imagine - will be done by the House. This measure, in my view, already contains a fundamental element in Article 1: the creation of synergy between various forces of the State. Today is October 26 and I want to open a parenthesis that shows how fundamental the realization of this synergy between the forces of the State is. Exactly five years ago I was mayor of my municipality, Visso, one of the three municipalities that gives the name to the seismic swarm of 2016, which is precisely called Amatrice, Norcia and Visso: the first shock had been at 19, the second at 21. The Municipality of Visso was the epicenter of the two shocks of October 26, exactly five years ago. I remember that, after opening the Municipal Cooperative Centre (COC), I was waiting for the arrival of the municipal employees, who also had civil protection functions, and I saw the various forces that managed the emergency: Civil protection, Army, Firefighters, all but dependent on separate ministries. Therefore, for the Army was the Ministry of Defence, for the Fire Department the Ministry of the Interior, for Civil Protection the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I said, with a joke, that they came without even saying good evening and began to do something - they were and are good at doing something - because it was their role and they were sent for it. But without coordination it happened that maybe a body perimeterd a building that risked the collapse and therefore was dangerous, and then later in that area another operator had to settle that went to undo the work done previously by the others. Fortunately the emergency was such that it necessarily served common sense and the people who worked at that time in my municipality had common sense. When they were invited by me to an afternoon briefing - invited because I was theoretically the highest authority of Civil Protection but basically had no authority towards anyone because, precisely, I was a direct expression of other Ministries - I explained that, while wearing all a different jersey we played in the same team and, recognized the legitimacy of this approach, everyone agreed to cooperate. At that point we managed to become really effective, solving problems and becoming an example of emergency management. [[Applause]] I say this to demonstrate that coordination between the forces of the State is indispensable. I know - and I say this from direct experience - that it is the most important element in emergency management, because the effectiveness of the intervention for 80% depends on it. It is good, therefore, that already in Article 1 of the measure in our examination is provided for. I would have liked to speak in more depth about several articles, but I see that my time is going to run out, so I refer only to what is provided for in article 4, paragraph 2, where it is said that the territorial authorities of the internal areas will be financed and, as mayor of a small municipality of the mountain that is also home to National Park, I remind everyone, even if there is no need, how fundamental it is to intervene for the prevention in those small and mountain municipalities that do not have own resources, but represent a very large part of our territory, with little population - my municipality has ten inhabitants per square kilometre - but with very large valuable surfaces. Not surprisingly, it is the territory of national parks, which are very fragile. It is therefore useful and appropriate also as provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 4, which intervenes in these situations of necessity. There is much more to be said, but I trust that my colleagues will. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against forest fires is a top priority for the country. In recent years we have seen this emergency grow progressively and impoverish our territory of its forest and wildlife heritage. The South in particular, which is more subject to extreme droughts, has paid a high price in terms of substantial damage to property and unfortunately also in human lives. It is clear that this is a criticality destined to grow due to the effects of climate change and the progressive rise in average and maximum temperatures, such as those of extreme weather phenomena, such as those that are occurring in these hours in Sicily and Calabria. These events have repercussions that exceed the mere immediate impact on the ecosystem. Deforested slopes are in fact more easily home to accelerated erosion and landslides. The sediments that arrive on the valley funds raise their hives, often favoring floods that can in turn endanger human lives, properties, infrastructure, sometimes miles away and even years after the event. The decree-law before our examination deals with some of the urgency and in particular intervenes in the National Forest Fire Plan for the strengthening of coordination, technological updating and the increase of the operational capacity of both prediction and prevention. Civil Protection is called upon to evaluate and draw up a report every three years on the consistency and effectiveness of the means and actions carried out and to consider possible implementations. To do this, it avails itself of a technical committee made up of representatives of various ministries, the structure of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which exercises the functions of the National Firefighters Corps, the command of forest, environmental and agri-food units of the Arma dei Carabinieri, of the Regions and Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and of the Municipalities designated by the unified Conference. The Committee for this year has recently adopted a plan, in which an estimate of expenditure of 40 million is reported, to be carried out by 31 December, and in any case, in 2021, 150 million are invested in this measure. It is clear that these actions are necessary and desirable, given the complex situation that has arisen since the introduction of the Law Madia. We should all ask ourselves whether the abolition of the State Forestry Corps, which was to ensure economic savings and the effectiveness of the interventions, has achieved its purpose. The current legislative framework assigns the functions in forestry, environmental and agri-food matters to the Forest Corps of the Carabinieri and the active fight against fires to the National Corps of Firefighters and it is now evident the role of civil protection, called to carry out an equally important task that in this case provides management through an interministerial committee that also intervenes the Regions under special statute, because in them there continues to exist that Forestry Corps that in the others has been dismembered. Is there, then, greater effectiveness for the decision-making process? Looks like it's actually inefficient. Has the Madia reform achieved its goals of economic savings? Of course not, because the savings announced for a three-year period were expected in about 125 million and we are only allocating 150 million in the current year. In 2015 the Forest Corps needed 495 million and in 2018 the expenditure rose to 502 million, with a per capita expenditure of 12,700 euros in 2015, which in 2018 increased to 31,700 euros. In addition, if the accounts were to be taken into account by assessing the cost of the interventions to private companies in charge of the Regions, the budgets would be heavily in red. Suffice it to say that the Canadianir fleet of the State Forestry Corps has been entrusted to private companies, which obviously look after their profits, with exponential increases in expenditure. The market cost of renting a Canadair, which in 2015 was around 4,000-5,000 euros per hour, in 2017, after privatisation, has reached 15,000 euros. It is evident the blindness of this operation, as well as the obvious conflict of interest of those who work for the shutdown of a fire, which theoretically would have everything to gain from the fact that it lasts longer. The maintenance costs of the helicopters allocated to the Carabinieri have increased; all the regional costs for the fight against forest fires have increased and, despite this, in recent years there has been a progressive increase in the duration of the fires, which involve immense damage to the heritage and the contrast to the hydrogeological failure. The most serious aspect, however, was the unbundling of skills and the loss of effectiveness, so much so that now it is necessary to set up a steering booth in order to try to remedy the lack of efficiency. Other negative elements have also emerged from the abolition of the State Forestry Corps and I invite colleagues and ministers to evaluate the proposal of the 5 Star Movement which, with the bill no. 1670, at the first signature of Congressman Cattoi, suggests the reconstruction of a forest, environmental and agri-food police to be assigned to the Minister of the Interior, for its close relapse in terms of public security [[Applause]] The proposal is of a general of the Forest Body of the State who knows well the criticalities and the problems of this sector. I remember that the laws are neither Right nor Left, but are useful or not to the country and citizens and that the 5 Star Movement has always prioritised common goods and citizens. What greater common good than the woods? What greater impact on the lives of citizens than that of a fire? I invite all the parliamentary groups and the government to work for functional solutions in the long term. With the law Madia has given priority not to common goods, but to privatizations and I hope it is evident to all the damage that has been caused to the country system by this approach, which some political groups continue to pursue. Let us recognize the mistakes and make wide-ranging remedies that look to the future, to a real protection from our forests. That's what Movimento 5 Stars does. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u20	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u21	Gentlemen of the Government, climate change has made forests increasingly exposed to the risk of forest fires. The best way to prevent forest fires is to ensure sustainable forest management. It is absurd to think that in our country, which has 11.4 million hectares of forest, 38 percent of the national area, it is not possible to carry out careful monitoring and planning of forest fire prevention interventions, according to what is indicated - moreover - in the national forestry strategy, which, in the face of the objectives pursued by the draft law under consideration, should clearly represent a reference to put in place the best possible practices for combating such phenomena. This has also been reported several times by UNICEM. In this respect, however, we welcome the Commission's adoption of amendment 5.23, which provides that forestry prevention activities and the planning of the Structural Funds are to be linked to the best forecasts of the development of forest farms, contained in the innovative forestry planning instruments provided for in Article 6 of the Single Forest Text, with particular regard to the national forestry strategy, which is a very important issue. On 16 July, the European Commission approved the new forest strategy for 2030. If the European objectives are compared with the content of the national strategy, priority action can be identified, in order to achieve satisfactory results in terms of prevention and, above all, sustainability. On the basis of the studies, while Italy reveals good performance for passive environmental protection measures, on the other hand it appears absolutely lagging behind on monitoring and planning systems, i.e. active measures. It is on this issue that we must work. The data show that the first predisposing factor for a fire is given by weather and climatic conditions: drought, dryness, high temperatures, low humidity, strong windiness, the high frequency of extreme events, such as heat waves, are the factors in which a fire can easily acquire vigor and affect very large surfaces. In this perspective it is essential to return to the value of the organizational modalities of the Italian forestry sector, so as to reach an optimal level of monitoring of the territory and prevention of these phenomena. Such prevention is found in sustainable forest management, with regard also to the strengthening of forest road transport - and this is our amendment, 4.22 - and therefore also in the activation of measures for planning, overcoming land fragmentation, the creation of economic chains and the exploitation of environmental ecosystem services provided by the forest and its fundamentals. This is the forestry management that needs to be promoted, in order to have effective management tools for the future. In this respect, an important issue that needs to be addressed immediately is the scarcity of economic resources available to the national forestry strategy. In this direction, I remind this Assembly that the first government of the League of this legislature had moved, with Minister Centinario [[Applause]] which led the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policies, with the 2019 Budget Act, established the Italian Forest Fund, with an initial budget of 2 million euros for 2019, 2.4 million euros for 2020, 5.3 million euros for 2021 and 5.2 million euros for 2022. This was an extraordinary novelty of absolute importance and that is why I remember it. Something very important has been done for our country. It is therefore necessary to identify immediately the financial instruments aimed at increasing the current availability of this fund for effective care and management of this very important green heritage, which today is constantly expanding, but also in a slow state of abandonment. An abandoned resource is a resource for which no value is recognized and which for this reason is not monitored. Prevention at lower costs is linked to the revitalization of the sector's economy. A wood that produces value, wood, biomass, mushrooms, truffles, chestnuts, but also tourist, recreational and cultural services is a wood that is defended and, therefore, hardly burns. An amendment was tabled to the Assembly to enhance the role of the farmer as guardian of the territory. Amendment 1.44 (text 2), which has been retabled at this stage, is very important because it gives the farmer the opportunity to play this role. Mr President, we must commit ourselves to being able to leave our land, our forests and our forests to our children at least in the same way as our fathers gave them to us. We hope for the better, but I think it will be impossible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u22	Senator Auddino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are here to convert into law a decree-law issued last September to deal with the emergency caused by the numerous and dramatic fires that have affected our country during the summer and, in particular, my region, Calabria. The escalation of fire reached the whole of Italy for a total of 140,000 hectares of woods burned only in 2021. This data has been widely reported in the press. In Calabria the greatest damage to the forest areas occurred in the Aspromonte National Park, where secular forest areas were destroyed, an inestimable loss of heritage. I've often wondered in recent months why there are so many fires. The genesis and causes of this defeat are many and complex, sometimes intertwined. The hand of all these fires is almost always human and, according to data also from the Ministry, in 98 percent of cases their nature is arson. While trying to point the finger at alleged serial arsonists, which exist, even if to a residual extent, it distracts one's gaze from the interests that often underlie such criminal acts. We go from the fires to create new pastures to those set up to plunder what survived the flames for profit, to the business linked to reforestation and related funding. Well, this fire decree, although it contains good measures redesigning the governance of fire prevention and allocating resources to enhance the operational capacity of the state components involved in the fight against fire, does not, in my humble opinion, solve the problem of fire for the future, because it does not remove the causes for which fire is often set. I tell the government so that we can remedy it in the near future. We had to act, in my humble opinion, on several fronts. In this respect, I have also tabled a number of amending proposals which, when dealing with the Commission, have not all been accepted, although some have been partially accepted. In my opinion, of primary importance was and will be in the future the introduction of certain perennial prohibitions and no longer limited to a period of time relating to areas covered by fire. One of the amendments laid down a perennial ban on a destination other than that which those areas had before the fire. In this way, any possible risk of arson from arson would have been avoided in order to be able to use later the wooded areas destroyed by fire for the benefit of private interests, even after a few years. Very often burning is equivalent to building at a later time (for this reason, in my opinion, the perennial ban was and will be important), considering the wood as an economic asset to be exploited for purely private interests. The amendment in the new wording has been completely overturned, because it does not touch - as I proposed - paragraph 1 of Article 10 of the famous law n. 253 of 2000, relating to the prohibitions mentioned above, but paragraph 2, specifying that also the surface crossed by fire falls within the final perimeter of the fire, with all the consequences of the case. This is a good thing, however, but the scope of this change is marginal compared to what I had originally proposed, after having interloquited with Federparchi and with many non-profit organizations who care about the woods. The same is true of another proposal of mine which laid down that the resources should not be paid to the municipalities which do not approve the final lists of oversoils carried by fire within the limits laid down by law. In this new wording, which even partially upsets my amendment, the regions are given the power to impose sanctions on non-fulfilling municipalities. I think of my region: it itself has often been - too many times, in the past - failing. So I think we go from the frying pan to the grill. I am thinking of my region, Calabria, and all this as a Member of Parliament makes me think. That is why this measure will not, in my opinion, help to ensure the timely updating of the lists of subsoils. I hope I'm wrong. However, I am pleased that the Commission has approved the amendment at my first signature which provides for qualified representatives of voluntary associations in the new single national register of the third sector to be included in the technical committee - as I have proposed - in the fight against forest fires. [[Applause]] This is a very beautiful and very important thing. This will allow the Committee to take an important view in order to analyse the risks and establish prevention policies (precisely, so important) and fire prevention policies, especially for the purpose of drawing up the National Plan. However, I have some concerns, because the rewording also includes associations for the protection of animals and the environment and organisations representing agricultural enterprises. Here - forgive me - I have more difficulty in grasping the meaning of this reformulation. One of the amendments to my first signature also provided for the amendment of a rule contained in the 2020 Budget Act (Law No 178), which provides that the recruitment of these workers, who are now on a fixed-term basis (as mentioned above, due to expire in December 2021), should be extended until October 2023. I had modestly proposed that these workers should be stabilised because, in my opinion, any causal link, even if only imaginable, between fires and any measures to extend fixed-term employment relations should have been avoided. I repeat: any causal link between fires and any extension of fixed-term employment relationships should have been avoided. This has also been the subject of many reflections with parks, presidents and non-profit organizations. It was necessary to stabilize the workers; those who know me know what I have done in different governments in recent years to stabilize other audiences. I will continue to carry on this battle to protect not only precarious and fixed-term workers, but also the forest. It was also of fundamental importance, in my opinion, to approve the amendment concerning the Canadian fleet - one colleague mentioned it earlier - contained in another amendment. My proposal was to abolish the Canadair fleet's service contracts signed by the Department of Firefighters with private companies and instead to recruit pilots into the military air force. In this way, any possible risk of private interests in the fight against fires would have been avoided and therefore we would have made the accounts with a considerable saving of public money. According to press reports, the Canadianir contract costs EUR 360 million, to which the additional flight hours are added compared to those provided for in the tender (3,500 per year). The cost of one hour of flight of a Canadianir, all inclusive, as one colleague said, is equal to 15,000 euros, including pilot and fuel. The State Canadianir fleet is piloted by a private foreign company which, from 15 June to 22 September 2021, carried out 5.147 hours of flight. Count to hand, it would undoubtedly be necessary to train the pilots and opt for public management. This is a suggestion I make to the government. I can't go any further. Prevention is the thing I care about most and it is the watchword to protect the forests, which are ecosystems without which any attempt to mitigate the effects of climate change will be in vain. It is essential to fully understand its enormous value for the territories. Often the effects of fires, even in the short term, are much more serious than the fires themselves. In fact, the soils run by fire are more easily encountered with hydrogeological failure and degradation of the soils. My proposals for amendments aimed and will aim at this in the future, namely to strengthen fire prevention and to prevent any possible risk of malicious behaviour. I hope that all of this can be adopted in successive amendments and measures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said at once that this decree-law is very topical. Sardinia is still burning, even in these hours, a sign that the favourable weather, still warm and dry, exposes it to the risk of fires from the beginning of summer until late autumn. On Saturday, 23 October, ten fires occurred on the regional territory. The Forestry and Environmental Surveillance Corps has also authorised the air vehicles of the regional fire-fighting system, as well as putting teams on the ground. This means that in Burgos and Bono it was episodes that cannot be considered minor. It should be stressed that the measure was also born as a result of the fires at the end of July in Oristano, as well as in large parts of the Italian territory. For several days and nights in Sardinia there have been flames on several fronts in the woods of Montiferru and in the countryside around Mount Grighine, as widely broadcast by local and national televisions. The budget was more than 1,000 people forced, together with the guests of an entire nursing home, to leave their homes and, at the end of the count, about 12,000 hectares of forest (including millenarian olive trees, pastures and Mediterranean scrubs) went into smoke, not to mention the death of many heads of cattle, burned or suffocated. In addition, damage to many stables, homes and economic activities. In short, an entire territory has been brought to its knees, which still survives today for the exciting chain of solidarity established at regional and national level. In the same days, another fire devastated 1,500 hectares, of which 400 wooded, in the area of Monte Arci, always in Sardinia. It is news that we Sardinians would never like to read, so vast are the damage and despair that followed. The decree-law was adopted in early September, after other territories of Italy had also caught fire. There were difficulties in containing fires everywhere and it was bitterly noted that the device had to be reinforced. It is evident that the value of some areas of Italy is to have large wooded areas and a nature largely preserved, but this, which is an obvious value, can also represent a fragility. Large areas of vegetation, real lungs of nature ready to oxygenate the air that is polluted in the city, are accompanied with the risk of seeing burning periodically the so much green available. Sardinia, in particular, is considered an oasis as beautiful as it is fragile and delicate, with an extensive wooded surface, but difficult to control, given the vastly mountainous and hilly territory. On the island there is the problem of territorial discontinuity, an issue that we will shortly address in the constitutional bill. The fires close to the borders between neighbouring regions can be extinguished also using the teams of shutdown of more Regions, but not in Sardinia. Strengthening air-off teams at central level can therefore be useful to reach even the most isolated places; in Sardinia, for example, two Canadairs from France and Greece have arrived this summer, using the European Civil Protection Mechanism: fortunately, in this case, Europe also exists in solidarity with the calls of the need that develop in territories such as Sardinia. The decree-law in question therefore goes in the right direction, because it identifies a set of measures for forecasting, prevention and active fight against forest fires. The rules not only complement existing ones, but aim precisely at optimising the operating system. We could call it a real plan to fight forest fires. What is needed now to prevent serious incidents such as those in Montiferru areas? We still have to work on the prediction, that is, to understand when certain areas due to the meteorological conditions become sensitive to fires, and therefore we have to act on the prevention of fires, which in most cases are originated, often with dole, precisely from man. It is therefore essential to have means and men, but above all a series of instruments able to promote even more efficient coordination between those who work on the field, the bodies of the State and all the agencies of the territory. Actions to contain fires and limit damage, which often occur during the same periods, require the intervention of more men and air and land vehicles, and it is therefore very appropriate to entrust the Department of Civil Protection, which has perhaps been a little too fragmented over the years, the reconnaissance and evaluation of innovative instruments. It is no longer possible to leave only to lookouts - which are very important, where there are - the sighting of outbreaks; there are increasingly sophisticated technologies, including satellite, which must integrate the systems of forecasting, surveillance, monitoring and detection of the environment. For men working in the firing of fires, both means and further training are needed. There is also a need for greater and better coordination between regional and national fire plans. The regional plans must: focus mainly on prevention; combating the abandonment of forest care activities; providing for landing stations for means of rescue; building infrastructure such as new water supply tanks which are useful for accelerating fire-extinguishing operations; setting up access routes and fire trails and maintenance of peri-urban areas. In short, a strengthening of the response to the phenomenon of forest fires is necessary, improving the operational capacity of those who have to coordinate the interventions and those who have to implement them on the ground. There is also a need for legal provisions to improve the prevention and repression of fires by revising and supplementing the requirements on obligations, prohibitions and sanctions. It is therefore necessary not only to tighten the sanctions, but also to strike the interests of the perpetrators of the offences, encouraging cooperation with the investigations and encouraging the conduct aimed at repairing the damage caused. Often, it is those who are supposed to protect them who cause fires in the woods, so we think it is appropriate to provide for aggravating cases and mitigating for those who want to repair the damage. It seems to us that the decree-law in question is heading in the right direction. The only criticism I feel I can make of its content is the following: to do everything that has been planned, there should be more economic resources available, but I am sure that the Government will provide additional funds already from the next budgetary maneuver, using the PNRR, if necessary. Another concern is what can be done in areas that have been subject to fire and fire, which are highly degraded. The measures which were planned for them - such as a ten-year ban on using them for grazing - only remove the inhabitants, the economic operators and the shepherds from the territories. [[Applause.]] What will these people do in the meantime? Will they look at the growing grass without being able to use it for their animals? There are such situations that 13,000 hectares in a single area of Sardinia, 1,500 on another side and 20,000 in an area of Sicily create a local economy: how can they be used by the inhabitants? That is the problem I am putting to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. There are provisions that prohibit for ten years the use of the territory for grazing and productive activities. What will the inhabitants do? The answer to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the measure we are examining, which has been well explained by our fellow rapporteurs, but in another way, by focusing on the competence of the Budget Commission, of which I am a member. We are not Members of this House who come to the substance of what is being submitted to us, but only and exclusively from a financial point of view. We are, however, reading the measures, such as the amendments and their content. Very often, they are set aside with the request for the technical report, because they may be important and need to be deepened. We do our job diligently, as far as we can as all of you can. Although it is not our responsibility, I would like to comment on one point: many times, we see and deal with amendments that have nothing to do with the measure. As other colleagues who work with me, not only in my group, but also in other political parties, can testify, there are amendments which have nothing to do with the measure, but which are accompanied by it, are similar or have some implications. I'll take one for example that you've been holding out a lot in the last few days and weeks and it's about hunting. My colleague, Mr Floris, spoke of large extensions that are not repopulated for ten years and cannot be used by shepherds, wondering what these people will do then. Other Members have pointed out the need for even greater perimeter of the areas that have unfortunately been the subject of these devastating events, which have hit nature dramatically. Well, there are rules and, on returning to the hunt, let me give an example. Leaving aside the fact that it is a matter that can be divisive and shared or not, hunting has its own rules and is regulated in a precise manner by each region, which then, in turn, regulates the provinces, municipalities and mountain territories, those with wildlife or in protection and reserve areas. This is the hunting law and it has its own precise limit: if there is something wrong, you take it, you put it around a table and you go to review the norms inherent in it. Some elements can be introduced that improve the measure on the side of prevention, in order to try to repopulate, put in place and reset the areas that have been subjected to great fires, but you do not enter to leg tense measures so important, that they would deserve the due attention from all sides [[Applause]] , putting in the amendment concerning hunting. So we find ourselves in a divisive situation: on the one hand, there are those who do not want the animals and, on the other hand, there are those who want them (which is not true); we talk about a topic that has nothing to do with it (it is that it can accompany it, but does not enter into the measure itself), forgetting instead to focus the topic (money, resolutions, prevention and everything that concerns the issue of fires), which is put aside, because for two weeks we discussed between those who wanted larger perimeter areas for the animals and those who do not, and there we debated. It's not okay! Why? Not because one is less important than the other, but because it is a waste of time so great that, when the law is published in the Official Journal, those who will have to benefit from it will have to go and look to understand exactly which part they can use and which not, not considering the Regions, on which the issue will come on, that they will not know how to move, how to collide a national law with a regional one, because there is the vice of sticking to the amendments, which is not good. I carry this experience because I have seen dozens of situations like this: with a people outside asking to have the tax cut, to be able to work and to return to normal, we have tangled to an issue on which we have divided ourselves - while they could very well have made two tables - and that sees neither won nor winners; the only ones that will continue to be penalized will be the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u28	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u29	Mr President, five years after its entry into force, today we can say with certainty that the Law Madia, passed during the failed Renzi Government, was a resounding disaster, and let us explain why. Do you remember the State Forestry Corps? I suppose so, also because it existed since 1822, almost two hundred years of honored service, until it came to the Government who decided to decapitate such history and competence at the service of people and the environment (it was 2016). The question is, why did that government do it? On the basis of what principle or higher value of the State? Hear well: to save some poor millions of euros; few, very few, miserable millions of euros to sacrifice a specialized body that saved lives, human and animal, and the environment from fires, with competence and courage, present above all on the ground, because the fires are extinguished on the ground, with the paradox then - we cannot forget - that, in the face of the dissolution of the Forest Body of the State, five forest bodies of the Regions have remained alive under special statute. We therefore have a leopard-spotted Italy in the field of forest fire-fighting, where in fact everything or almost is blocked due to the lack of coordination between the forces involved in the prevention and the extinction of fires; where thousands of forest operators present on the territory have been brought together in so many other different public administrations that they lose their count: Carabinieri, Fire Department, State Police, Finance Guard and Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies. Such crushing of the competences has led to a substantial abandonment of the territory, not forgetting the miserable end that made the fleet of fire helicopters supplied to the Forest Corps, which has been dismembered and dismantled, just like its pilots, that today do not fly anymore, and that has forced the State to rely on the private, with an increase of the costs that it screams revenge: we speak - hear well! - more than 15,000 euros paid to private individuals for every hour of Canadair's use to extinguish the flames, when these operations were carried out by pilots and helicopters of the State Forestry Corps, with infinitely lower costs. Today this disaster is before everyone's eyes, with thousands of devastating fires, that have crossed our woods, killing people, wild animals and the environment, and with billionaire damage, against a saving of only 30 million euros, in the three years 2017-2019, as the Court of Auditors has recently pointed out. This is a saving that obviously does not exist, if we evaluate the largest, huge costs resulting from the increase in hectares of land smoked. To understand, only for the fires of 2021, so these months, there is talk of damage for at least one billion euros: I don't know if we realize what happened. Obviously few - or perhaps no one - talk about it. Or rather, we talk and talk about the fires and the damage they cause, but we do it as if we were talking about inevitable events, to which we should get used. Instead, they could have been limited and this must be said loudly to the Italians. The greatest damage caused by the fires of this last period is also the consequence of delays in the operations for the shutdown. These delays depend on excessive bureaucracy, conflicts of competence between administrations, and a general lack of coordination. [[Applause]] We must have the courage to say that they were fires that could have been extinguished in less time and therefore with less damage. It would have sufficed the presence of a forest and environmental police well rooted in the territory, exactly as was the State Forestry Corps. One thing about everyone is disconcerting: there was an increase in the stakes of 256 percent (a catastrophic number) compared to a year ago. The warnings on climate change are not of today, but they should have activated the policy on many areas already for many years, for example by exponentially increasing the resources destined to the Forest Body of the State and not deleting it, as the Renzi Government did, with the so-called reform Madia, in 2016. [[Applause]] All political forces today need to work concretely for the environment and actively combat climate change, following the only possible path, which is that of ecological transition. Let us mention a few further facts: until December 31, 2016, the pivot of the existing system of coordination in the field of forest fire prevention was the State Forestry Corps. I say it slowly: until then, most of the fires were extinguished in an hour. Within an hour of their activation, most of the fires were extinguished. Today, a few years later - but enough to make clear the catastrophic political choice to cancel a civil environmental forest police force - it takes much more, even weeks. It has passed from an hour to weeks, unfortunately with the consequences that we have all seen. Many more hectares of land go up in smoke, millions of wild animals are burned alive and there are damage to billions of euros, to save 30 miserable millions of euros, as the Court of Auditors has told us. If we wanted another proof of the disaster caused by the so-called "Madia" reform - I stress the word "so-called" - just see the decree-law in question, which was written precisely to try to "put a piece" to chaos. It is very difficult to put a piece on a dress that can no longer be mended, but tries to create better coordination between all the forces involved in the shutdown of fires. We have seen that these forces are divided among many, different administrations, which overlap, blocking and abandoning the territory. We must also be honest in saying that this decree-law, even if it tries to intervene, cannot be enough to prevent hundreds of thousands of hectares of land from smoking again in the coming years. [[Applause]] Mr President, the only way is once again to have a civil and non-military forest and environmental police, which will return to be present in a widespread way on the territory, near the places of the fires, and which will be able to intervene immediately. The only way is this, in addition to the fight against climate change. The only positive note of this intervention is that a number of proposals have been put forward in Parliament; another positive thing is that they are not just from Movimento 5 Stars, because there are other political forces as well. I am also referring to other forces outside Parliament, which are struggling to re-establish this environmental and forestry police force, in particular the Federation for Forest and Environmental Rebirth (Ferfa), which I thank, because it helps many of us to get the information that public administrations too often do not give. This information is capable of explaining the problem in its real dimension, but above all that the only solution is a new civil forest and environmental police. There is no more time to lose: to recreate a specialised civil body is the only solution; if we do not undertake it as soon as possible, one day we will be told that it is too late, also because there is no other destiny than this. It is only necessary to decide when to do so and, if it is not immediately, as the Movimento 5 Stars asks, it will mean that we will be destined to count every summer the damage that we could have avoided, and that is not acceptable. We therefore call on all the political forces concerned to support these initiatives and also on President Draghi to take a clear position, which guarantees the government's support for the return of the civilian forest police. The time, Mr President, is over and our beautiful Italy, with its wonderful and unique biodiversity, can no longer wait. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u30	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you, for all of you have worked very strongly on the draft law on forest fires, together with the rapporteurs, who are present today, and on the government. We have come to a text, today under discussion in this House, which will certainly offer a better response than that date from our legislation to date, but of course still much needs to be done and foreseen, especially in a logic that is not always that of the decree of urgency. Colleagues, you all know that this has been the worst fire season in Italy for thirty years: 12% of the national forest heritage has been involved and there are 150,000 hectares of wood fired in Italy since the beginning of the year. Thirty years is a long time. If each of the people who talked about the fires and if each of the past governments who wrote about this matter or gave interviews had planted a tree, we could have saved the planet. But in thirty years nothing has been done to date. [[Applause]] Not everyone knows that the Italian forest heritage is one of the most important in Europe for the breadth and variety of species and is an immense wealth for the environment and the economy, for the balance of the territory, for the conservation of biodiversity and the landscape. Ours is really the most important in Europe, so it is a dramatic cost what Italy has been forced to face, because the work of prevention in the woods, which, due to carelessness and abandonment, have become real ungovernable jungles. We have witnessed the unstoppable advance of the forest, which without any control has taken possession of uncultivated territories and now dominates more than a third of the national surface, with a density that makes it completely impenetrable to the necessary maintenance, defense and surveillance. However, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this area has doubled since the unification of Italy and now covers 11 million hectares. As a Sicilian, the first thing that comes to mind is that all these lands, in fact, have been abandoned. As my colleague, Mr Floris, said, the farms disappear, for ten years they are penalized and paralysed and deprived of their source of income and subsistence, which perhaps for many is also the only one, especially without a farmer who can manage them. In order to defend the Italian forest, it is also necessary to create the conditions that contrast the departure from the countryside, in order to make the most of the functions of surveillance, maintenance and management of the territory carried out precisely by agricultural entrepreneurs, our agricultural entrepreneurs. We have all read from the various articles in the newspapers that the causes of forest fires are about five and that among them are the weather conditions, which I believe are a prerequisite. Especially today it is before everyone's eyes as with the heating there are torrential rains, of which today my Region is victim, and especially my city, Catania, but also the nearby Syracuse and other municipalities. Other Italian countries and municipalities have also been so during this year. We all remember also the images of the fires in Australia, of all the animals that are burned and that have been put at the mercy of our social media to make us realize what was happening. We have much faster, more intense and large fires; then we have voluntary fires and not, but attention: that of arsonists is a rare disease, not so widespread as to be able to blame them, which instead is the arsonous behaviour of a multitude of subjects, such as shepherds looking for richer and cleaner pastures, incendiary with vindictive motives, forest workers looking for future employment opportunities, hunters interested in controlling and concentrating the areas of refuge of game or collectors of wild products. The main cause of the fires, however, are the behavior of man, linked to carelessness, negligence, imperishment and underestimation of the risk. In southern Europe, 70% of the fires are linked precisely to the burning of plant residues and to the desire to regenerate and make pastures more productive. The third reason for the cause of the fires is the lack of attention and the lack of prevention, which, on the one hand, is defined as indirect, i.e. linked to the cultivation practices that allow the choice of appropriate species and the realization of thinnings and cleaning operations of the undergrowth, which are of fundamental importance in order to increase the resistance and resilience of the forest formations. We also have a direct prevention, which means - as my colleagues have said - the realization and maintenance of firebreaks, reduction of the fuel material and cleaning of the side bands, all practices that even in Sicily leave the time they find, because in fact, despite the mayors make ordinances, on the other hand they find people tried by two years of Covid, who surely, if he has to choose between eating or cleaning the funds, choose to eat. This, of course, has created a further worsening of the condition of absence, once again, of our Ministry of the Interior, with prefectures, which would have the task - and perhaps the burden - of ensuring that these practices are respected, at least in private funds. Then there is another cause, which is the antithesis of prevention, namely the shutdown. Well, the differences in the economic investment of the two options should not be overlooked, because the first concerns small operators in the rural world, while the second, that of the shutdown, involves external players in the forestry sector, in particular areas of the business related to the air fleet and monitoring systems, sectors formally linked to the military industry. We have all talked about the abandoned forest, but I would like to draw attention to one fact that I would like it carefully: if, on the one hand, banning to protect and rebuild the heritage is good, on the other hand, but I believe, especially as a woman belonging to a political force in which work, income and entrepreneurship are privileged, that managing the heritage and enhancing it also economically to reduce the costs of its protection is much better. This is a culture, which unfortunately we inherited from the end of the nineteenth century, when the country had been endowed with strict regulations of bonding the wooded territories and a police force specialized in the protection of forest resources. This area has doubled in fifty years and therefore it is worth finding formulas for which the cost of a management, giving an enhancement to the forests, would certainly be less than that of prevention. Then we have a governance problem, which has largely documented my colleague Toninelli who has exposed and manifested these errors. But I think we can learn from mistakes, so I do not feel like condemning the political forces that have put themselves at risk to find solutions. Surely we must review the so-called "Madia law" because the many inconsistencies that I do not want to talk about again have been highlighted. The measure entrusts the Department of Civil Protection the task of addressing, every three years, the National Plan for the strengthening of human, technological, aerial and terrestrial resources necessary to prevent and combat forest fires; document that will complement the usual regional planning. I hope that structured coordination with the state's central apparatus will finally guarantee greater resources to the regions to combat this scourge. Among the most important innovations that I hope can find full and rapid application, there is the reconnaissance and evaluation, which is entrusted to the Department of Civil Protection, of innovative tools, with the new technologies that today can certainly give a great help. I am thinking of the satellite one, suitable for the integration of surveillance systems, monitoring and detection of the environment, drones, remote control, means able to detect in very fast times even small fire outbreaks. The means available to us by aerospace technology are extraordinary today. If they were fully exploited and well coordinated, the battle against fire would certainly take a less dramatic turn. President, I will give the full text of my speech, because the whole second part contains the experiences that, thanks to a bibliography made possible by the help of journalists who report to us on time the best experiences in Italy, I say that prevention can be done, there is and is demonstrated by countries like the Municipality of Carini or by the National Security Council that continues to give support in terms of technological innovation to fire prevention. Therefore - I repeat - prevention can be done, there is and there is evidence and I hope that there is also the Government's commitment to fighting for the encouragement and acquisition of new technologies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u32	Senator Papatheu, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the full text of the speech so that it remains in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u34	Mr President, I have to say that the measure we are dealing with is of particular importance, because after the summer of 2021, which has been particularly complicated from the point of view of fighting fires, I believe that there has also been a necessary awareness of how much this cancer, which hits our forest heritage, must be eradicated with every effort. I would like to lose in this sense some climatic suggestions such as those that Senator Toninelli brought back to us earlier, which will certainly have their reason to be somewhere else in the world, but which I fear have little to do with arson primarily set in South Italy and in some very specific areas. Here, let's ask ourselves starting from this: how come in some areas of the country fires develop so easily and how never to fight in those territories the fire within the wooded areas is always a titanic enterprise. In view of this, we must be aware that the criminal framework, as has also been dealt with in this measure, needs to be focused. Action is needed to combat crime that lies behind forest fires. Let us not tell ourselves that fires develop on their own, because this phenomenon in nature is extremely rare and certainly totally unrelated to the context we are talking about. Instead, we talk about the interests behind the forest fires, not only the interests related to those who, perhaps before the same law of 2000 that prevents the change of destination of use of the territory, think of using this instrument precisely to modify its destination of use, as it happened many years ago. I'm also thinking of a few subjects, maybe some fire-fighting professionals looking for an opportunity to be called to put out the fires. In this sense, I have tried to explain in every way, especially to those who are in government today, that we must be very determined to prevent some discrite, some criminals, from entering our volunteer firefighters or other categories that should defend the territory and take advantage of the opportunity to cause fires instead of defending the territory. Unfortunately, some investigations have put some examples under the magnifying glass and we are very sad about this. Precisely because we must defend the goodness of the state and an important body such as that of those who fight fires or civil protection or others, we must be very determined and even - as is the case - if someone is found to commit this kind of crime, hit him seriously [[Applause]] You have to have the courage to face these taboos, otherwise there is always the idea of a hidden hand, that you do not know who it belongs to, that it goes to light the fires. Maybe we also have to face some conditions that make it possible to fight fires. In this respect, we are very pleased that the Commission has approved rules allowing the extension of the ranking of the public competition to 250 posts in the Fire Departments, allowing us to have a basin from which to draw for future recruitments until the end of 2022, preventing a vacuum within the staff of the Fire Departments, especially as regards turnover. It is also necessary to put hand, in a clear, serious and determined way, to the ranking of discontinuous vigilantes, on which, as we have seen, there has been a lack of government action, either because of inability to understand, or because of malice (I don't want to believe it). This is to avoid that, as I said before, there continue to be situations in some cases also ambiguity between those who have to put out the fire and those who unfortunately, as we have seen in some investigation of August this year, start the fire. We will see how the rest of the votes also develop, because we will propose opportunities for the Government to take a position in this House. In this respect too, I regret that the Undersecretary is moving away from this House. It is obviously not interested in this matter. Having said that, let us move forward in a determined way. We have included in the measure the reduction to five months of the course for the foreman, going again to give an operating support, so that the fire teams are constituted with shorter times and therefore reducing the accumulation of delay that has occurred from the time of the Covid. We have also been able to include other measures and for this I would like to thank Mrs Bini, who has taken action in this regard. We will then see whether, within the budget law, the measures concerning the reduction of VAT costs for volunteers for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment and equipment will be included - we are sure of that. We have received with great satisfaction the government's favour; of course it will be a matter of moving from words to deeds, being clear that in the measure under discussion the economic capacity was reduced. However, I hope that referral back to the budget law will only be a matter of time and not a lack of will. As I have already said, we need to be aware that our country is too often on the news of fire-related problems, but it is equally true that we have the largest fleet of fire-fighting aircraft in the countries of continental Europe. It is clear that something must also be reviewed in that organization, because if we are the country that has available more Canadair and more means of fire rescue to fixed wing or rotating wing, it is equally true that probably the organization can be put to greater fruition, otherwise we do not explain some dysfunctions that punctually we find to read from the chronicles. 18.37 (Follows CANDIANS). Many arguments have been mixed in this decree-law, many of which had nothing to do with the issue under discussion, as has already been pointed out by Senator Faggi, such as that of hunting. Let us be careful not to make every opportunity an opportunity for ideological divisions: if it is a question of fighting fires, we must all be firmly united in this effort; if it is a question of fighting the crime behind those who start fires, we must all be united in this effort and the last thing we need is that on such an important measure ideological divisions are inserted on the basis that nothing has to do with the fight against fires, as we were saying about hunting. [[Applause]] The Forest Corps of the State has been glorious, but allow me, President, a note of controversy with Senator Toninelli, who was Minister and had as Minister the Minister Costa, who came from the Forest Corps of the State: he has been to the Government for about three and a half years and if he really had the will to rebuild the Forest Corps of the State, he had all the opportunities, when he was Minister of the Government and also in these years to be able to do so. Clearly, it is more useful to come to this House and make statements of principle than to make a serious commitment and to do things. [[Applause]] A thank you goes to our fire department and civil protection volunteers, who are constantly fighting in situations of fire, danger, which put the lives of people at risk. We must give them not only the certainty that the state makes available the material tools to put out fires, but also human resources for not being few in service. As I said, let us welcome the extension of the 250-seater competition to qualify as Firefighter, and let us welcome our amendment to reduce the training course to five weeks, but we must also fill up, as well as the trade union forces are loudly asking the Government, with extraordinary recruitment of firefighters' staff. Only with a well-distributed device on the territory will we be able to combat all forms of fire operationally. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u35	I must inform the House that a meeting of the group leaders was convened at 6:45 p.m., i.e. ten minutes from now. You can also continue to work if there are no objections from the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u36	We as a group would prefer to have a suspension of work at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u37	Mr President, I agree with the request, because at 7 p.m. there has been a hearing of the Guarantee Council for a long time and I know that at 8 p.m. there is also a very demanding election committee, so at this point, taking advantage of the need to suspend the meeting of the Leaders, perhaps it is better to suspend the work completely.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u38	As it has not yet begun, we suspend the work - I consult the President - at the moment when the meeting actually begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u40	Mr President, as I said, the measure we are going to vote on puts the focus on a criminal phenomenon that is undermining ecosystems, the security of territories and their hydrogeological estate, as well as attacking the lives of people and animals. A land run by fire loses value, generating harmful consequences also on the economy and often putting companies, entrepreneurs and their families in crisis. Last summer's report informed us every day about the huge number of fires, the data of the European Forest Fire Information Systems report a disarming picture: over 158,000 hectares of wooded areas, of maquis and agriculture, equal to the areas of the municipal territories of Rome, Milan and Naples have been burned. A tragedy that affected in a particular way three Regions, Sicily, Calabria and Sardinia, without the incendiary action spared Lazio, Campania, Puglia, Basilicata and Abruzzo. According to Coldiretti, it will take at least fifteen years to recreate the green heritage erased from the same flames that destroyed pastures, crops, barns and agricultural means, but also killed an unquantifiable number of farmed and wild animals, the latter state heritage and biodiversity. The Ministry of the Interior in the last summer recorded about 80,000 interventions of shutdown or containment, strongly increasing compared to the previous year, with almost 25,000 more operations. In addition, fires in protected areas were 756 in national parks and 1,310 in regional parks. It is a dramatic situation for the entire natural heritage. Man is the main cause of this disaster. This is underlined by the WWF, according to which 96 percent of the fires are related to human activities; often arson acts are expressions of speculative interests linked to fire services or the land market. Added to these are accidents resulting from negligence, accidental causes or bad agronomic practices such as the senseless habit, still too widespread, of cleaning agricultural land by burning vegetable residues and ending up destroying organic matter that is thus being taken away from crops. We must not, however, make the mistake of associating the multiple causes of fires set up for different reasons by competing with what appears to be a unique design. In the light of the causes cited and the difficulties that Italy faces every year in trying to reduce the damage caused by fires, prevention takes on a leading role. Very serious is the estimate made by Europa Verde, according to which 44 percent of the Italian municipalities did not activate the land register fires, fundamental to signal the areas crossed by fire and bind them for the following years, in order to counter the speculation building, agricultural and pastoral. Even when activated, the competent authorities do not always provide the planimetric data and transmit them to the municipalities, making this instrument ineffective. Not even the regulatory activity in place in recent years has improved the situation. Legislative decree no. 177 of 2016, the so-called Madia reform, has deleted the State Forestry Corps, specialized in the protection of the environment and the national agro-food, leading to the forced militarization of 7,000 civil employees, penalising the protection of the forest heritage and fire operations, without bringing any real savings to the state coffers, as my colleague Toninelli well explained. Today we have an obligation to rethink the fire prevention system by increasing the financial resources to enhance operational capacities with specific forecasts for dedicated structures in the smaller islands and in the internal areas where the risk of fire is high. Therefore, the contents of the measure under discussion are very positive, such as, for example, the replacement power of the Regions in case the municipalities do not provide to update the register of fires and the preparation by the Civil Protection of a national plan three-year technological update of the actions of prevention and active fight against fires, to which specific resources are dedicated in order to acquire new fundamental operating means in the operations of shutdown. The penalties for incendiaries are also being tightened, which is a deterrent to prevention. In addition, the sum of €100 million is allocated to local authorities for interventions aimed at preventing forest fires in the interior areas of the country, thus undertaking that path aimed at the maintenance of the territory and reducing the risk of accidental fires. It is also important to amend Law No 353 of 2000, the framework law on forest fires, contained in Article 5 of this measure, which introduces the definition of urban-rural interface fire and Article 6, which is particularly close to my heart, which deals with the crime of forest fire, provided for in Article 423- bis of the Criminal Code, in order to introduce the fact that, when the events are committed by fire-prevention workers, the prohibition to negotiate with the public administration the ban on fire prevention tasks is also important. Important is also the one provided for in article 7, which provides for a reward mechanism allowing the Regions to establish compensation proportionally incentive instead of the results achieved in reducing areas crossed by fire, in order to avoid the sad approach of precarious workers of the regional forest bodies to the phenomenon of the arson burns. In conclusion, it was necessary to update the provisions against fire and much is contained in this decree-law. That is why I welcome the work done by the Government and the parliamentary committees. However, it must be pointed out that the problem of coordination between the administrations and the reduction of intervention times remains alive, the main cause of the increase in areas destroyed by fire from 2017 to today. In fact, the ineffective contrast to the phenomenon is mainly due to the distance of fire control, which has a negative impact on the timeliness of the interventions, in addition to the current equipment of the air fleet used in the shutdown operations (there will never be enough talk of the role they play, almost in favour of the fires). There is therefore a need for more garrisons on the territory to ensure a more rapid and effective response. I am sure that the sensitivity shown by Secretary Sibilia on this issue will help speed up this process. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Quarto and Mr Briziarelli, for their work in favour of this legislative Assembly. With this measure the criminal phenomenon that has marked our recent history is preparing to be reduced in the future, to protect the environment, ecosystems and agro-food production of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all those men and women who are now fighting fires daily, to try to remedy situations that have a specific responsibility and that a mature Parliament such as ours must begin to recognize. I'll talk about it later. What appears to be evident is the usual, all-Italian tendency to legislate on the emergency. Among other things, it happens that the emergency of the last five years is linked precisely to the increase in forest fires, which has a specific responsibility: that of having deprived of the only body that actually did prevention, that is, the Forest Corps of the State. I believe that, in view of this, part of this House knows that, if we are also intervening with resources today, it is because then the choice was wrong. [[Applause]] We must now increase resources on these chapters. Attention, it is certainly not the Brothers of Italy who say that we must not increase resources or that we must not increase the penalties for the arsonists; we look at them well. But I wonder: if it had not been decided by the law Madia, during the Renzi Government, to deprive itself of the State Forestry Corps, today we would be in these conditions? The data tell us something completely different: until 2016 the trend of forest fires in Italy was downhill. Then, by chance, he decided to deprive himself of the men in the field. If anyone thinks that the satellite can replace man, they are mistaken, because it would mean that an artificial intelligence could replace the parliamentarians of the Republic. Well, someone would like it too, but democracy is actually something different from that. So I think that, if perhaps the concept that it would be best to be replaced by an artificial intelligence applies to some of us, perhaps it cannot be the general principle of Parliament. First of all, it is therefore necessary to assume responsibility on the part of those who voted and wanted that law to which we now, as a matter of fact, have to make a corrective. It is before everyone's eyes - just look at it - the situation of the Italian national environment. It is not necessary to have read the book of the founder of the WWF Fulco Pratesi to understand it and to know it. It would suffice to observe the data of recent years: until a few years ago the majority of the population lived in rural areas, with all that follows, that is with the maintenance of the territory, with the garrison, with the control. 70 percent lived in rural areas and only 30 percent lived in cities. Today we have reached a condition of almost equality. If the trend is not reversed, within twenty years we will have reversed the percentages, i.e. 30 percent will live in rural areas, thus depriving the territory of a very large garrison, and 70 percent will live in urban areas. This already has an effect, because the forest, which everyone likes (evokes Heidi and cartoons), has already grown by 30 percent in Italy. However, it has grown not the orderly and cared for woods, but the degradation. In some parts of Italy the villages are suffocated by hedges and woods. You don't need a scientific study and a satellite vision to understand it, but you just have to question the local communities. First my colleague La Pietra said it very clearly: today the local communities are left and abandoned to themselves, as are the farmers. There are two categories, one of which is seen by a certain ideology, I do not say with disrespect, but certainly with a bit of terror. On the one hand there are farmers, who have always been concerned with maintaining the territory even without having a friendly state and, on the other hand, not even neutral (sometimes, with our laws, the State is even against) and, on the other hand, hunters. I give you a news: in some areas of Italy the maintenance of the territory is done by hunters. Get over it! [[Applause]] That maintenance is made for a constant balance between man and nature, among the very protagonists of nature. Criminalize the hunt, or, in a subtle way, want to insert an amendment according to which, if there is a fire in Rovigo, you do not hunt in Belluno seems at least bizarre and - above all - absolutely out of context compared to what we are dealing with today. Today we should take on the burden (some of you more than others) of saying: we have made a mistake. Today we should say: let's go back to that prevention system. No more copying. There is no need to invent commercial measures such as the one we are discussing to realize that there was a system that was working and that can be resumed. This is not a question of opposition between the forces of the state, between Carabinieri, Fire Department and Forestry Corps. Absolutely not. We simply have to realize and realize that there was a body that in these cases also coordinated and dealt with fires not only when they occurred, but from 1 January to 31 December. That body was there and you tore it apart and destroyed it. Thanks to God and men, however, that body can be restored. In this regard, there is a proposal at my first signature (which is currently under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies and also bears the signature of colleagues not belonging to the Brothers of Italy) and also other proposals (such as that of my friend Cattoi del MoVimento 5 Stars or that deposited in the Senate by my colleague Rauti) that ask for its restoration, just to avoid that this Parliament still has to intervene on these issues with commercial measures, since the recipe exists and has always existed. Next year the Forest Corps of the State would have turned 200 years, but in 2016 a parliamentary majority, not even chosen by the Italians, decided to deprive of it. Well, today, instead of voting on spot measures, put your hand on your conscience and vote on the bill that re-introduces the glorious Forest Corps of the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has begun and I therefore suspend the sitting pending its conclusion. (The sitting was suspended at 18.54 and resumed at 19.42 p.m.) He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u43	Mr President, today we are discussing the conversion of a decree-law issued by the Government more than a few weeks ago. The images of what was happening during the hot days of the summer just passed are still well impressed in the minds of all of us and in that of many Italians, some of whom have witnessed the total devastation caused by the flames of the fires started. This is an unsustainable situation which has rightly prompted the Government to intervene. This is a case which undoubtedly required extraordinary and urgent legislative intervention to provide for more exemplary punishments - certainly - but above all to prevent, finance and support more local authorities, civil protection and the whole structure of the state components involved in the fight against the stakes. Mr President, before I go into the detail of the measure, I would like to express my closeness and that of the PD Group to the families and relatives of the people who lost their lives in the fires in the summer, to the many citizens who have literally seen the work of a lifetime burn, their homes and their livestock. All this has happened especially in Southern Italy and, specifically, in its internal areas, often already severely marked and affected by shortcomings of other types. I was deeply impressed by those images, but in the face of such a serious situation, the institutions' response cannot be merely a mourning. We needed a concrete response and I believe that the measure adds an important piece of concreteness to the great work that still needs to be carried out to prevent incidents of an incendiary and arsonous nature unfortunately on the increase. The guidelines on which the measure is based are defined in the articulation of the coordinating programming instruments with the aim of predicting, preventing and mitigating risks. All this becomes possible - as I said at the beginning of my speech and as we shall see shortly - by strengthening the various operational components and increasing their intervention capacities. In paragraph 3 of Article 1 there is a national coordination plan for the technological update and the increase of the operational capacities aimed precisely at the actions of forecasting, prevention and active fight against forest fires. A decision which, in addition to the allocation of resources provided for in Article 2 for the purchase of additional means and equipment, strengthens our structure and our ability to combat this phenomenon. Article 5 of the measure introduces, to paragraph 1, a new definition of fire of urban-rural interface. With this definition we manage to give a connotation to the forest fires that affect areas or areas in which there is an interconnection between structures that are defined as anthropic and natural areas. In light of what happened this summer, being able to identify situations and areas of this type allows us to read better and before the danger of possible fires, but also to protect the lives of people potentially involved in them. Finally, Article 6 introduces amendments to the penal code, which provide for aggravating measures on the one hand, in the event that the criminal action is committed precisely by those who, on the other hand, would have the role of preventing fires, and on the other, mitigating measures, for those who undertake to cooperate with the authorities. They are, in my view, an improvement in the existing rules. I use these last seconds of my speech to highlight the enormous environmental impact that a fire produces in our ecosystem. That is why I believe that the words spoken this summer by Prime Minister Draghi have been reassuring, which has not only readily guaranteed the mayors of the affected territories a programme of refreshments for the people and businesses affected, but also ensured an extraordinary plan of reforestation and security of the same territories. I believe that these commitments, together with the measure that we are debating today and which we are about to convert into law, with a positive contribution from the Senate aimed at modifying and integrating the initial text, represent a significant step forward that a Government and a civil state can make for their citizens in relation to similar emergencies. In this direction we must continue to move in the near future, so that the life of Italians and the beauty of our territory are not unnecessarily destroyed at the hands of a bunch of criminals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u44	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u45	Mr President, we have come from several days of very intense work in the Environment Commission. I would therefore also like to express my thanks for the efforts made by the rapporteurs, the Government and all the members of the Commission, in an effort to improve the text of the decree-law that we must convert. In my opinion, this attempt has largely succeeded, albeit not completely, because, as perhaps in any legislative measure, there are lights and shadows, depending on the point of view. I will briefly focus on a light and on what seems to be a great shadow that characterizes our work of converting this decree-law. The light, in my view, is to have included specifically, with an amendment to the first signature De Petris and Buccarella, to which then have been added the signatures of the members of the Mixed Group and of the Movimento 5 Stars, the specification to equip, in the next initiatives of strengthening the system of contrast to the fires, those technological resources that can be, if not completely decisive, certainly very impacting to prevent the repetition of phenomena like those happened last summer. I speak more specifically of the use of technologies, to which we often entrust so much in our professional and political life, but also private; technologies that today allow, through the use of radars implemented by infrared cameras and with the support of drones, also equipped with sensors, to be able to intervene in a really timely way when there are triggers of the fires. It has been said and reiterated here in this House and we have heard it in the course of the hearings: although climate conditions are conducive to the emergence of fires and the extent of them (I am thinking of climate upheaval and drought), very often there is also the hand of man. So we can, as we have rightly done, tighten up the legal and sanctioning framework by increasing the penalties, including the ancillary ones, already provided for in our legal system under Article 423- bis of the Criminal Code. However, the problem we face every time and which now seems to have unusual scope is the difficulty of identifying those responsible in all cases where the triggers (and this is the vast majority) are of arsonous nature. Now it is possible to supply the state and regional apparatuses of immediate control systems and instant verification of the emergence of outbreaks based on the thermal reliefs of radar systems, which seem to have a range of up to 50 kilometers. In this way it would be possible to identify the triggers and, if necessary, also any vehicles located near the trigger points. In fact, as I was trying to say before, we can rightly act on all systems of prevention, protection and strengthening the posthumous contrast to fires when they take on large scale, but if we succeed in impacting and punishing, after identification, those responsible for the ecocide that marked the last summer season, we would take a great step forward in achieving the objective. This is a minor aspect of all the legislative changes that we have managed to make in the course of our work in the Commission, but I have an obligation to shed light on the shadows of a conversion measure with which - in my view and not only - we have not been able to provide that protection which we should have reserved for fauna. I am referring above all to the fauna affected and that, in addition to the human activities that are rightly to be protected and for which it is right to provide with refreshments, it impacts greatly on habitat and biodiversity. The numbers tell us that we are talking about about about 20 million live or dead burned animals, of which 2 million are mammals. The impact on biodiversity is very high. As scientists and scholars tell us, we must unfortunately fear these extreme phenomena of incendiary nature, which - Catania is proof of this in the last hours - are affecting the everyday life of the entire earthly globe (even if we are talking about our country today). Therefore, concern for fauna, habitats and biodiversity must go beyond animalistic or environmental sensitivity, because in this case we are dealing with our own survival, as well as constantly reminding us of those who study the balance of life on our planet. Amendment 1.52, which has been rejected by several colleagues in the Commission, intended to limit hunting activity, limited to the current season, after catastrophic events for vegetation and fauna due to the huge fires. In my view, this amendment did not have the success it would have deserved. There are those who say that this amendment did not go beyond the Commission's scrutiny because it is aimed at subtlely introducing limits to hunting. I must reject this argument on behalf of all the signatories to the amendment, because we were not talking about hunting tout court (for which, hopefully, the Italian people will be called to decide), but, in relation to the phenomenon of forest fires and the depletion of wildlife and breeding, we were trying to intervene precisely in the matter governed by the measure. For our part there was the intention to recognize to the animals that manage to survive the extermination and escape frightened and wounded from the areas affected by the fires the possibility, at least, of being able to survive that long enough to repopulate our lands. Every attempt at mediation has been failed; we can only take note of it and reserve the assessment on the bill that we are about to fire. In the next summer season each of us hopes that this will not happen again, but - ahinoi - next summer we must fear that the climatic upheavals will put us - or we must be ready for this eventuality - to new fires of vast proportions and above all interesting areas difficult to reach. Mr Audino spoke about what happened in Calabria, and our Sardinian colleagues have brought us the testimony of the devastation, which we know well, of the natural environment as well as of human activities. As for the part of the bill under discussion that does not protect those who do not have a voice and do not have a vote, that is the animals that share this adventure of life, we will try to find out if the measures we are taking now will be sufficient to guarantee that level of resilience - wanting to use a word that seems to be abused - of our habitat and our forest biodiversity. We hope that the objectives we have set ourselves will be achieved. Some concerns - to be very moderate - with regard to the protection of fauna can be dealt with. We'll see if we can win the next challenges. That said, it is not up to me to assess the final vote; we in the Mixed Group will do it together when we vote. I'm just saying, to want to be good, that it was a great lost opportunity, to protect the fauna. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please proceed with the surgery. You have already exceeded your time. BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). I'm about to finish. As I said, fauna is a resource not only for ourselves, but also for hunters who, surely with us, have the concern of wildlife protection in a short and medium-term perspective. We believe that we have missed a great opportunity not to at least protect the municipalities affected by the fires from the issue of hunting for the current year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u46	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after so much analysis, study and study, today we are finally discussing the decree-law on forest fires. I said "finally" because what has just ended was the forest fire campaign that has recorded the worst data since 2008. In those years the general sensitivity to the environment was certainly less pronounced than now, and as Forza Italia, always attentive to environmental issues, precisely for this reason we waited for this measure, which aims to curb and reduce the damage related to this phenomenon. My colleagues have already done so, but it is good to repeat the numbers: in Italy the forest represents 83% of the forest area and covers 29 percent of the entire national territory. Despite this immense heritage in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems, we are unfortunately the first country of the Mediterranean and Europe in which more woods burn, especially in the regions of Southern Italy and unfortunately also in the region from which I come, Calabria, where 9,257 requests for intervention were recorded only this year and only in three months. The dramatic budget was six victims and many injured, 3,640 fires, 395 affected municipalities (seriously affected the Province of Reggio and many areas of Cosentino). It's really very sad data. During the forest fire campaign 2021 159,000 hectares of forest were smoked, a quarter of the new forests, practically the cities of Milan, Rome and Naples put together: a glance at the extraordinary drama. Why did we, as always, use all our powers on the decree-law to our examination, together with the parent company Gallone and my colleague Papatheu of the important proposals for amendments aimed at improving the text? It is simple; when our forest heritage goes up in smoke, our air also goes up. Forza Italia is concerned about this and for this reason too, with rationality and dialogue, we have tried with all our colleagues in the Environment Commission to make the right improvements to the measure. We have always been committed to protecting the environment, animals, and in the same way to protecting the interests of farmers who are seriously threatened and damaged by fires, just as they are seriously and daily threatened and damaged by the excessive presence of wildlife, which has been dealt with many times in this House. Once again, today we have heard the cry of alarm from the agricultural organizations linked to the measure in question, working in such a way as to prevent its negative effects. The measure is therefore important from various points of view: the tightening of penalties for those responsible for causing a fire, but there is also other; for example the strengthening of the means and equipment, to which 40 million are allocated only for 2021, with the establishment of the National Plan of Coordination for the technological update and the increase of the operational capacity for those who fight, very often unfortunately by means of inadequate means, the fires. I am referring, of course, to the fire department, forest police and civil protection, regional forestry and volunteers, to whom all our thanks go for what they have done this summer, intervening during the fires of which we all have the clear image in mind. A strong response therefore from the institutions, especially to those who have sought and try to criminalize causing fires. Of course, there is still so much to do and we have to do so much. One of the improvements made in the Commission with an amendment on which I should like to refer is that relating to reforestation. The hectares burned this summer, as well as those smoked in previous years, would have returned to be part of the forest heritage of our regions only after decades. That is a worrying fact. I note that 159,000 hectares less means less carbon dioxide absorbed, so more polluted air for us, for our children and for our grandparents. I draw attention to another fact: lung cancer in Italy is the first cause of cancer death in all age groups in men. For this reason, we have proposed authorisation for extraordinary compensatory reforestation of burnt land on land owned by the regional property. This means that basically, thanks to this amendment introducing a new article, the regions are allowed to use abandoned land which, after careful anthropic studies, also thanks to the collaboration of universities and research bodies, will compensate the hectares lost due to forest fires. In doing so, the process of rebuilding the wooded surfaces is accelerated and the environment and the species that populate it are the main beneficiaries. I should like to end by thanking once again all my colleagues in the Environment Commission, the President, Mr Gallone, the Group leader, for the work she has done, including the moments that have been a little more vivid, who have certainly shown the passion with which each of us plays the prestigious role that she plays. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u48	Mr President, we are facing the conversion of an important decree-law that concerns the rural territory of our country, the vast majority of Italian territory and, in particular, that 35% of Italian territory consisting of wooded areas, a real lung important for our environment. Fires are a serious problem, given that most of them are of arson or manslaughter. That's the point. On the merits: who has any interest in our country that there are fires? Surely those who can earn money on fires and even those who may have interest in triggering the prohibitions provided for in the areas crossed by fire. They are the two bases: fire, interest in the fire or interest in triggering the ban provided for in the fire. Crazy people in this country - I make an inscription - there are! I personally deal almost every day with those who tell me and write to me that I must die, that I am a "killer of m..." that the hunt must be stopped at any cost. They're crazy to write this because one who writes to me that I'm a "killer of m..." and that I have to die tomorrow morning is a friend ("kissers," as they say), but he's crazy! But this crazy guy's got a gun in his hand with a viewfinder? Let's think about it. Then there are those people who are interested that there are no fires: it is the whole community, I hope. We all have an interest that there are not, particularly those from rural areas who pick something up, so if there is a fire, that something does not pick it up anymore, not only because there is a ban, but because the environment goes in a condition of degradation so that it is not possible to pick anything, whether it is a fruit of the undergrowth, fauna or other. Those people have an interest in the fire not being there. Another question: in this country, who does fire prevention? Definitely the ones who guard the territory. We have understood - the indiscriminate mania park has made us understand this - that the territory abandoned to itself is more subject to fires; therefore, those who guard the territory, who keep the undergrowth clean, farmers, hunters - return also to my category - the fishermen, all those people who do environmental improvement interventions do fire prevention. [[Applause]] Certainly fire prevention is not done by the so-called living room environmentalists who pontificate, but do not know what it means to do prevention. [[Applause]] Then there are those subjects present on the territory for other reasons; theirs is a simple presence: the hikers, the fungaioli; all of them do a certain type of prevention because however theirs is a surveillance. Again, there are those who strive to put out fires: professionals in the sector, who must be thanked, but also all those who are not professionals, those operators who care so much about their environment, their land, who do anything, when a fire breaks out, to go and stop it. Surely they are not the ones before - your friends of some dune, the environmentalists salottieri - those who go to do this job. [[Applause]] In Genoa we say 'but tastu se ghe sun', and what is the answer that someone has tried to give to the problem of fires and to have to do everything possible to reduce them? The problem moves on wildlife, and some women even - as the country is put in today - propose to increase the protection zones. I challenge anyone to say that putting the hunting ban in an area does not mean making a protection zone; so, let's go make thousands of new protection zones, given the number of fires, where fauna can do what it wants indiscriminately, starting with wild boar. The answer to the problem of fires is wild boar protection areas! I think we're crazy with what's going on in the country. [[Applause]] First of all, I would like to thank the agricultural associations, who, when they understood what was going to happen with the amendment on which we wasted so much time in the Commission, sent out a message saying: stop, no more than a meter of protected territory because we can no longer cope with this excessive presence of animals owned by the State, among other things, which do damage, cause accidents and the State does not care and does not respond. However, this is a game that should be dealt with, yes, but not in this law. Colleagues, those who do the damage and cause the death of people in the streets are the property of the State unavailable - as stated in Article 1 of Law No 157 of 1992 - but the State does not respond and does not care what happens. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the hunting associations, who have made several hundred thousand of them available for surveillance and prevention. It is therefore regrettable to have seen irrational and ideological proposals in the Commission, not only to increase the protection zones by means of an automatism of law, but clearly aimed, as has also emerged in some interventions, at achieving another objective: to make a political campaign. Shame! I cry for shame, because the theme of fires is used to make a political campaign against hunting and anti-hunting, to the point that several times the speech of the referendum has emerged to repeal the hunt, that referendum in which we would ask the Italians to set up an entire area of protection for wild boar throughout the country. [[Call the president back.]] It doesn't matter, we understand that this issue is viewed in a preliminary way, not in a real way. Colleagues, look at the fact that together with the concern and discomfort of the agricultural associations, there is gradually coming also that of many other Italian citizens, who are not directly interested, but who understand that common sense must prevail over these issues, rather than the irrationality or feelings of someone. I understand the Movimento 5 Stars: an attempt has been made to expel the Italian Regions, which by law have the competence of the management of wildlife, make the fauna plans and the protection zones, determine which are the huntable species and which those protected, as well as the areas of respect for the migratory birdfauna. The regions do all this and there has been an attempt to exonerate them from this task, with the automatism of a state law. I understand the Movimento 5 Stars, because they don't touch marble in the Regions. We understood this: if they could, they would abrogate them. [[Applause]] , given the continuing nasty figures and the kicks they take every time from voters, when there are regional elections. We too could have dealt with a divisive subject: the ten years of prohibition in the Mediterranean scrub do not serve.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u49	Come on and finish, Senator Bruzzone.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u50	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Of course, Mr President. There are some regions that have reduced to three years, because the Mediterranean scrub returns to the previous one. We have not done so, because we have the responsibility not to touch divisive themes, even in that sacred freedom of speech, which we must always guarantee, giving everyone the opportunity to say what he thinks. My grandfather used to tell me, when I was a child (I say it in Italian, even if he said it in my own language): Dear child, there is freedom of speech, but remember that rather than talking about something you don't know, it is better to shut up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u51	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u52	In fact, I should like to interrupt the sitting, because the Conference of the Leaders has begun, but if the senator reduces her speech a little, I will let her speak now, because I would hate to postpone her speech until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u53	Mr President, we are talking about a plague that upsets the landscape, destroys biodiversity, causing incalculable damage to the natural and human heritage. All too often the nature of the trigger is arson: irresponsible gestures that have no justification. As much as there is awareness of the problem, every year we continue to experience more or less extensive and more or less devastating fires. Although the State is making efforts, endowing itself with means and men to deal with the flames and to put out the fires, the damage we count each time remains immense. To restore the ecosystem conditions of a destroyed forest requires twenty years of care and significant resources to reduce the risk of further destruction. The problem is destined to grow, given the climate change that we are experiencing and that are bringing about summer seasons that are now increasingly droughty and very hot. This torrid summer has confirmed the trend and has recorded a number of fires never seen before: thousands, of which about 400 of great proportions, that is, of more than 30 hectares each. 35 percent of the Italian area is covered by woods, a wealth that requires so much attention, several times and from many parts invoked, since the last years have witnessed a constant and inexorable growth. In the report on forest prevention and management of the National Union of Municipalities, Community and Mountain Authorities, in the update in August 2021, we find that already 2017 was a terrible year for fires, with more than 162,000 hectares involved. We're late. The seriousness of the damage caused by fires must necessarily bring about all the necessary and useful solutions to reduce these disasters. Unfortunately, these events are also all too often incredibly fueled by the disrespectful use of our forests, by criminal interests and, not least, by the ignition of agricultural waste or, even in protected areas, by the use of barbecues or by the carelessness of careless smokers; reckless practices and a widespread maleducation, which must be eradicated through severe penalties and information campaigns on the harmfulness to the environment of any combustion and the importance of the woods and the ecosystem they represent. The decree-law that we are about to convert is indispensable and necessary for a more effective contrast, first of all in terms of prevention and of course of intervention, but also for a rapid identification of those responsible for these disasters and, therefore, in terms of tightening sanctions. The increase of resources for means and people, as for the search for new technological solutions, is obviously indispensable, but with the awareness that prevention is always better than cure. It is on this front that the collaboration of every public and private body, of agricultural and forestry enterprises, of all citizens can be decisive for the preservation of a heritage, what the beauty of the forest landscape represents. In this respect, in the field of interventions aimed at enhancing the landscape, it is essential to improve forest traffic. It is necessary to foresee a plan to re-evaluate all those ancient routes of slow mobility, made up of rural roads, white roads, tractors, pedestrian and mule tracks, which represent an important historical value and a way to activate new forms of local economy, with which to experiment projects that intersect agriculture, ecology, tourism and community services. I have learned with pleasure that my agenda has been accepted: a commitment to the Government for targeted interventions for a forestry strategy aimed at the re-evaluation of vast wooded areas, often left to abandon, through the rediscovery and enhancement of rurality, cycling, trekking, equestrian tourism, paths that nourish the body and spirit. I would like to thank President Moronese of the Committee on the Environment, the Environment, the Environment and the rapporteurs, Mr Quarto and Mr Briziarelli, for the great work of synthesis among all the proposals that have been made, carried out with passion and diligence. I believe that we will come out of these events so destructive to nature and the landscape only with proactive actions, combined with widespread information, promotion and development, aimed at respect for our mother Earth, with its forests and its biodiversity, that is life for all and that, therefore, can only represent a valuable asset for the territories that can take advantage of its wealth. A beautiful setting to our walks, our villages, our cities, which, if private, would not have the same attractiveness that I challenge anyone not to recognize. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u54	The general debate is closed. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 8.20 p.m. and resumed at 8.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u55	The Conference of Leaders decided that tomorrow's session will begin with the follow-up to the discussion of the bill on combating discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability, approved by the House of Deputies. It will then continue in the discussion of the decree-law on forest fires. The sitting will then be suspended from 2 p.m. until the end of the Conference of Leaders, which is already convened from 4 p.m. presumably until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-370.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.32 p.m.
