ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 June 2021 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u5	Mr President, before I give a formal reading, I would just like to say that I visited President Emeritus Giorgio Napolitano just now, who asked me to greet all the Members of this House. [[Applause]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today is intended to make you take part in the issues we are debating at this week's European Council. This is an important step and I thank you for being here. Intercourse with Parliament is essential to define our country's position on issues of great importance to the lives of our citizens and our institutions. I will proceed to touch on the main topics on the agenda, including economic recovery, the Covid-19 pandemic, vaccines, migration, foreign policy issues, such as relations with Turkey and Russia, and crises in Ethiopia and the Sahel. The economic situation in Europe and Italy is greatly improving. According to the European Commission's projections, Italy will grow by 4.2 and 4.4 per cent in 2021 and 2022 respectively, like the rest of the European Union as a whole. However, many of the indicators that we have indicate that the recovery will be even more sustained. The latest data on the confidence of businesses and consumers, referring to the month of May, are on the rise. The figure for companies, in particular, is strongly accelerating compared to the positive trend of recent months and is the highest since February 2018. Foreign trade is also broken down. In April, exports grew significantly, not only compared to last year, when their level had been exceptionally low, but also compared to two years ago, marking an increase of 7.4 percent. Also in April, the index of industrial production increased by 1.8% compared to March. Trust, I mean, it's coming back. Our goal is to overcome in a lasting and sustainable way the anaemic growth rates that Italy experienced before the pandemic. In order to do this, it is essential to maintain an expansionary fiscal policy at European level in the coming months. During the pandemic we have spent considerable resources to protect the productive capacity of our economy, now we have to make sure that aggregate demand is able to meet these supply levels. We have protected supply during the pandemic, maintained and protected jobs and employment and helped companies overcome the liquidity crisis: now we have to maintain high demand, at the level of that supply. Achieving significantly higher growth rates than in recent decades will also allow us to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio, which has increased significantly during the pandemic, and will enable us to create new jobs, which are crucial for dealing with transitions, such as digital and environmental transitions. However, certain risks remain in this positive economic environment. The first is precisely the epidemiological situation, which I will discuss later in my speech. Although greatly improved, this must be observed and monitored very carefully. In particular, we need to monitor the emergence and spread of new and dangerous variants, which can slow down the reopening programme and curb consumption and investment. The second potential danger is inflation, which in the euro area reached 2% in May, after 1.6% in April. There is broad agreement that, to date, this increase is temporary, because it is linked to a recovery of demand, supply bottlenecks and accounting effects. So-called core inflation - excluding the most variable components, such as energy - remains very low in the euro area, while it is growing in the United States. This definition of inflation is one of the indices that we are looking at to see whether inflation growth will be lasting or temporary. We must keep our attention high so that inflation expectations remain anchored to the medium-term objective. We must also look at the risk of divergence between the euro area economy and the US economy and the implications it could have for the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. An additional risk is linked to debt. During 2020 the debt-to-GDP ratio in the European Union rose by 16.7 percentage points, in Spain by 25.7 percentage points, in France by 18.5 percentage points and in Italy by 15.8 percentage points. In 2020, European governments made full use of state guarantees for a total of EUR 450 billion in the only four largest countries in the Union. It is expected that some of these guarantees will be due and will therefore lead to a further increase in debt. However, an expansionary fiscal policy remains essential to preserve sustained growth rates which, in turn, will reduce debt. However, it is important that all governments commit themselves to returning to a prudent, medium- and long-term fiscal policy once growth is sustainable again. This serves to reassure investors and markets, to prevent any increase in interest rates and thus to encourage current investment programmes. The last risk concerns social cohesion and environmental sustainability. The recovery phases from recent crises have often favoured only a few sections of the population, penalising the less well-off, the younger and the women. We have not paid due attention to the climate crisis that affects especially the most fragile areas of the country. This time we must and we want to act differently. For example, we need to put in place effective active labour policies to help those in need of training to find a new job. The European Council will discuss how to ensure sustainable growth, including through the resources of the Next Generation EU. At European level, it is very good that 24 out of the 27 Member States' plans have already been formally presented and that the Commission has already examined ten of them. The allocation of funds will depend on the Council's approval and it is important that this be done quickly and effectively. The approval of the Italian Plan by the Commission, confirmed by President von der Leyen during his visit to Rome yesterday, attests to the great work done by our country. We have put together an ambitious plan for reforms and investments, and we have done so with the cooperation of the local authorities, the social partners and Parliament, which I would like to thank here. [[Applause]] Your role as Parliament will continue to be crucial throughout the implementation of the plan. As I said yesterday to President von der Leyen, approval by the Commission is only the first step. In the coming months, we are waiting for a challenging path to start the planned investment projects and move forward with the reform agenda. Europe's eyes are on Italy, on us. Our programme is in fact the most significant and substantial, amounting to EUR 191.5 billion, plus the 30 billion of the supplementary fund. The success of the Next generation EU program depends only on us. As far as the pandemic is concerned, compared to my communications to the Chambers of 24 March last, the epidemiological picture in Italy - and in general in Europe - has greatly improved. Last week, around 90,000 cases were reported throughout the European Union and there were 2,600 deaths from the Covid-19. Two months ago the cases were about a million a week and the weekly deaths six times the current ones. This improvement is due to the vaccination campaign, which proceeds in an expedited manner. In mid-April in Italy only one in four adults had received at least one dose and only one in ten had completed the vaccination cycle. To date, more than half of the adult population in the European Union has received at least one dose of vaccine. In Italy the quota is almost 60 percent and about 30 percent of the adult population has completed the entire vaccination cycle. The risks related to variants, and in particular to the so-called Delta variant, require us to proceed in the vaccination campaign with maximum intensity. We must also continue to focus on the most fragile people, such as the elderly, who are most at risk of death or hospitalisation. The priority is to look for all over 50 wherever they are and to vaccinate, or try to persuade those who do not want to approach, but this is the absolute priority, today, of the vaccination campaign. As far as the Italian pass is concerned, on 17 June the DMCM was signed that defines the release modalities and just now Minister Hope told me that in more than five million have already downloaded the vaccination certificate. It is therefore operational in Italy the IT platform to issue certification, which facilitates participation in certain types of events and movements between regions in case of worsening of the epidemiological framework. From 1 July the certification will also be valid as a European green certificate in order to travel to and from the countries of the European Union and the Schengen area. Meanwhile, under the same certification conditions, we already allow tourists coming to Italy from the same areas, from the United States, Canada and Japan; in short, we want to allow them to come safely to Italy, to help our hoteliers, tourism and restaurateurs to start again, after a year and a half of difficulty. On the subject of vaccines, the European Council will once again address the issue of international solidarity: improving access to vaccines in the poorest countries is not only an ethical issue, but also a health priority. The longer the pandemic lasts, the more chances there are than the silent virus in particularly contagious variants, which may escape the vaccine coverage. Important progress has also been made in this area over the last two months. I am very pleased with the work carried out at the Global Health Summit organized by Italy together with the European Commission, in Rome, on 21 May. The summit was the prelude to the extraordinary European Council of 24-25 May, in which the countries of the European Union undertook to donate at least 100 million doses of vaccines by the end of the year. Italy will do its part and donate 15 million doses this year. At the G7 Summit in Cornwall and at the next European Union-United States Summit, the joint commitment to increase the production of vaccines was reaffirmed, also with a view to a fairer distribution of vaccines at global level. As I have said on other occasions, the transfer of technology to third countries is very useful to this end; this issue will have to be defined in the context of negotiations at the World Trade Organisation. The Commission is ready to present its own written proposal as a basis for negotiations. At the Global Health Summit, President von der Leyen presented the European initiative for local production and access to vaccines, medicines and health technologies on the African continent; it is an initiative that Italy supports with determination and conviction. EUR 1 billion in investment from the European budget is expected to be increased with the support of the Member States. The European Council will also welcome the decision taken by the 74th General Assembly of the World Health Organisation to convene a special session of the World Health Assembly in November. On that occasion, a common framework will be discussed to improve global preparedness for future pandemics based on lessons learned during this health crisis. Italy, like many other countries, was unprepared for the arrival of Covid-19. We cannot and do not want to allow this to happen again. The Rome Declaration, also approved at the Global Health Summit, provides an excellent basis for greater international cooperation and solidarity in the future. Another issue that concerns us closely is the management of migratory flows, which is back on the agenda of the European Council at the precise request of Italy. Think that it was no longer on the agenda of the European Council since June 2018. As I said in the past, the government wants to manage immigration in a balanced, effective and humane way, but this management cannot be only Italian; it must be truly European. We need a common commitment to contain illegal immigration flows, to organise legal immigration and to help these countries stabilise and restore peace (and I am thinking, of course, particularly of Libya). [[Applause]] Better control of the Union's external border can be the basis for a broader plan, including relocations. There is broad convergence between the EU countries on the need to overcome the Dublin Regulation. It is a convention conceived in a different historical phase, suitable to manage numbers contained. At the moment, however, a compulsory solidarity towards the countries of first arrival, through taking charge of the rescued at sea, remains divisive for the 27 Member States. It takes a long-term alternative to make sure no country is left alone. The Pact on Migration and Asylum, proposed by the European Commission on 23 September last year, has the merit of seeking a change of perspective. The negotiations on the Pact show, however, that there is still much work to be done. A common ground between the European States is currently emerging on a number of key issues. Among the 27 Member States there are points of convergence, first of all on the recognition of migratory routes as an integral part of the European Union's external action. We intend to step up rapidly partnerships and forms of cooperation with countries of origin and transit, in particular with African countries. The aim is to avoid loss of life, but also to combat illegal departures, as well as to reduce pressure on European borders. [[Applause]] I also discussed this at meetings in recent weeks with the Libyan Prime Minister Dabaiba and the President of the Tunisian Republic Saïed, from whom I received positive feedback. The European Commission and the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy also stressed the urgent need to take concrete action from time to time with countries of origin and transit, an invitation on which I believe there is broad convergence. Moreover, the majority of Member States appear to be sensitive to the need for closer cooperation between the European Union, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organisation for Migration on all migration routes. We want the Council to promote stronger action on return, including through the instrument of assisted voluntary return, and to foster a common commitment to support humanitarian corridors. I think we're the only ones who can do it so far. We do it pretty well, but clearly it's pretty small numbers. More generally, greater political and financial consideration is needed of migratory routes in the central and western Mediterranean. Today, the European Union is particularly privileged to take a legal and financial eastern route. A specific commitment by the European Union to stability in Libya is needed, hopefully under the auspices of the United Nations. As far as foreign policy is concerned, the European Council will first of all deal with relations between the European Union and Turkey. At its meeting in March, the Council recalled that it is of strategic European interest to have a situation of stability and security in the eastern Mediterranean and therefore to cooperate with Turkey. The Council wishes to stress once again the willingness of the European Union to cooperate in certain areas of common interest, such as combating climate change, public health or combating terrorism. We are also committed to the issue of the customs union. However, we will reiterate our concern about respect for fundamental rights in Turkey, such as women's rights, civil rights and human rights. [[Applause]] As regards Russia, reference will be made to the conclusions of the extraordinary European Council in May and the commitment to the key principles governing the relationship between the European Union and Russia will be reiterated. Finally, the conclusions of the European Council provide for references to crises in the Sahel and Ethiopia. Stabilisation of the Sahel is a priority for Italy. In recent years, we have expanded our efforts in the region both politically and on development cooperation and security assistance. As proof of the Italian and European attention to stability in the Sahel region, it is worth mentioning the appointment on 21 June of Mr Emanuela Claudia Del Re as the European Union's Special Representative for the Sahel. [[Applause]] As regards the serious humanitarian crisis in Tigrai, Italy continues to call for an immediate ceasefire, full humanitarian access and the end of forced displacement. We also call for independent investigations into human rights violations and the start of a path of national reconciliation. We do so in the wake of traditional relations of friendship and bilateral collaboration and in full support of the reform process and the development of the country. Today we can tell ourselves reasonably confident (not optimistic) about the evolution of the European situation: the vaccination campaign is allowing us to effectively contain the pandemic, the economic recovery proceeds quickly and the Next generation EU program makes us look with confidence at a season of reforms and investments. However, a number of challenges remain, starting with the management of migration, which we must tackle carefully in order to meet the demands of our citizens. The European Union is the right place to solve these problems, but it is important that our partners understand the urgency of finding quick and shared solutions. Your support is and will be instrumental in advancing Italian interests in Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u7	Mr President, the last experience I have had in this House, in which I was interrupted after ten minutes - certainly not because of the responsibility of anyone, except for the Rules of Procedure - leads me to be brief and to tell you that I would like to talk about three things. I'd like to talk about your speech, about you and us. I would like to talk about your speech, Professor Draghi and us parliamentarians. You've been very synthetic and I'll be very synthetic. As has happened to the House of Deputies, I, like my own Group for the Autonomies, am in that very large majority of Members who share his speech from A to Z. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Parliament's broad support is there, it is an important value and it is certain that it will accompany it. You told us that there is an encouraging prospect of the economy, not underestimating the risks we will encounter at the fall recovery. The vaccinations are fine, they are better, and the issue of immigration, as the Minister of the Interior knows, is a real emergency, but unfortunately we are alone. You also mentioned this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you referred to the Dublin Rules of Procedure, to your failure to reform and to your failure to share on the subject of the countries of first reception. He then spoke of the Mediterranean, Turkey and stability and I believe that we all accompany you to the European Council with absolute and convinced solidarity. Now let's talk about Dragons and talk about us. I would like to do so without flattery, which is also very popular at this time, and without hypocrisy, always in vogue in politics. As happened at so many times in national life, we went looking for a gentleman of great prestige, not elected in Parliament - he was in fact outside Parliament - because we were in a state of absolute emergency. We did, and Professor Draghi has agreed to put not only his technical-political capacity, but also and above all his name, as a protective umbrella of a country... [[Applause]] Excuse me, colleagues, but my reasoning is: I would not like to give a round of applause. I said: as a protective umbrella of a country, which was and is in great difficulty. As we all know, though, if it is a very effective umbrella and an extremely effective interpreter of Italian politics in relation to the issues of recovery plan and the relationship with Europe, we must have - here I am talking about ourselves - the intellectual honesty to understand that the problems are exactly the same and are all before us. I am referring in fact to political forces and to Parliament, from which there is a daily escape. I am glad that Mr Del Re has also gone to strengthen the ranks of those who leave Parliament. We can remember the number of very prestigious colleagues who have left Parliament in recent months. Colleagues, my line is not a joke, but the worrying indication of a growing marginality, which Parliament must record. If we do not realize this, we have quarreled with the fundamentals of politics. [[Applause]] Today, in front of a government of vast convergence, like that of Professor Draghi, we can do two things: wait and put ourselves in a situation of paralysis and expectation, with respect to the issue of reforms and investments that are necessary, or face the problems. Here the relationship between Dragons and Parliament becomes a relationship between government and political forces. So I would like to give three examples and finish my speech, in order to avoid being tacit. In the first place, Professor Draghi spoke of anemic competitiveness - I think he rightly used this term - Italian, so we grow less than other countries, we grew less even before and we have to grow more, if we want not only to use the money of the recovery plan, but to use the opportunity that is offered us by the pandemic. Well, there is not only that of public administration, but also that of justice, among the issues to be addressed. I would like to say one thing with great simplicity and clarity: the provisions on justice cannot be a warm cloth. We don't need warm cloths, because today we have emerging issues. Just think of the level of discredit that the magistrates have in public opinion and compare it with the absolute reputational respect they were twenty years ago. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to reform the MSC, which, moreover, extends the number of members of the MSC itself (this, frankly, is a little surprising) without a clear separation between the disciplinary sections and the administrative body. Other indices and other parameters would be introduced on the professional evaluations of the magistrates, which, as we all know, will increase the litigation at the TAR: because anyone today is rejected in a place where he would like to go, has as the only immediate action the recourse to the TAR. And the administrative litigation increases. It takes the courage to say that, if a prosecutor puts hundreds of people who are regularly acquitted to trial, this, in terms of professional evaluation, can only be discrediting, because in a private company everyone would adopt this system. [[Applause]] As for the income of citizenship, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, the income of citizenship was an important measure, which we introduced on your boost. Many countries have an income of citizenship, in different forms. Very good: I think it is important to give protection to the marginalised groups, but be careful: the episodes of employers are multiplying which, perhaps also due to unclear rules, do not find Italian workers, because these people prefer to receive the income of citizenship. Is it an anomaly or is everything okay? [[Comments.]] Colleagues, if I were an advocate of citizenship income - I admit I was not - I would be the most interested in regulating this issue, precisely to protect the effectiveness of citizenship income. Finally, Mr Draghi, you mentioned Libya and Turkey. In Libya we are in an absolute emergency situation and in a condition in which we have no cards to give. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that I am dealing with another taboo, but do we realize that we are the only Mediterranean players who have managed to argue, at the same time, with Egypt and Turkey, which in the Mediterranean are notoriously in permanent conflict between them? We have managed, on different issues, to have difficulties in interlocating with one another or with the other. We as Parliament and then the Government must take a serious look at this. We have disputes that need to be dealt with. They are painful, they concern human events and those human rights which President Draghi has rightly referred to. I am proud that my President-in-Office of the Council makes these statements, because they are Italian history and tradition, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must aim to change a policy which, if it does not give us the opportunity to be a reference point in the Mediterranean, condemns us to a permanent subalternity. It was the issues he wanted to deal with. I think and hope they were of some use. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u8	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, yesterday's meeting between you and President von der Leyen offers the best opportunity and makes it right and welcome to welcome you, for your leadership in Italy, in Europe and beyond Europe, and to welcome the European Union's response, which was both visionary and extremely concrete to the pandemic crisis. I quickly touch two points. The first is very brief, and it is of particular appreciation for the way in which you, Mr Draghi, described the prospects of the economic framework, a particularly balanced way, without any alarm at the moment, but by mentioning the issues of inflation and debt which, without any concern today, deserve great attention. My second point is about Europe. You showed us, also with yesterday's event on the PNRR, the Europe that works and works well, and you showed us, with your references to the agenda of the European Council in which you are going to participate, also the Europe that is not working for now: migration and relocations, foreign policy and, I would add, taxation, which you touched only indirectly on the G7, in which we know that an agreement has been reached on the minimum taxation of companies; the real difficulties will then be in Europe to get it approved by all the Member States. You called for quick and shared solutions. In these three areas progress is insufficient, tiring and slow. The common root of these three and other points of difficulty in the European Union, as you well know, is that in these matters you cannot decide, except by means of unanimity. My question is of perspective: from the perspective of the Conference on the future of Europe, I ask you how the President of the Italian Council sees the possibility, the strategy and the way to move gradually, if he considers it necessary, towards overcoming, at least partial and conditioned, the unanimity rule, so that one day you or one of your successors can come to this House and talk only about aspects of the European Union that work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u10	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u11	President Draghi, allow me to say thank you. Thank you for the work you are carrying out with authority and competence, which are again attributed - and I would say finally - to our country. It is obvious, at least from my point of view, that there has been a marked change in Europe compared to the past. It is in everyone's eyes how much you are respected by other European leaders, how much Italy's positions have a strong voice and how much the pace has changed in recent months, not only in the management of the pandemic and the economic phase, but precisely in relations with all the other Member States of the European Union. The next European Council will feel strong Italy's positions on the important issues that you have well focused on and remembered with clarity and clarity. Precisely because it has been clear and clear, especially from the economic and pandemic point of view, I do not feel at all, either to return to the usual arguments or to give her advice, which I think is quite obvious not necessary. I therefore take the liberty of turning my attention to other issues that you have touched on, also in the light of the political news events of the last period. In his speech he spoke of Europe at 360 degrees, spoke of the economy and made it clear that the PNRR is not a gift, but a response to the objective economic difficulties that Italy has faced and continues to face. He spoke of a pandemic, but he also addressed the fundamental issue of digital transition and I thank you for that too, because a country's future cannot be separated from its digitalisation. [[Applause]] The same applies to ecological transition and environmental sustainability, both of whom look to the future of the long-range country. You then spoke of Turkey, Libya, migratory flows, the resumption of international relations. All this can only lead to a reflection linked to Europe's relationship with rights. Although the European Union is the area of the world that ensures the greatest protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, in recent times there have been delays or even clear violations of personal freedoms, minority rights and freedom of access to free information, which the European Union cannot ignore without undermining its social and cultural progress. If we are talking about immigration, for example, we cannot leave out the very serious situation that has been facing the eastern route since 2017. With you, Mr Draghi, immigration has returned to the centre of European debates to try to achieve, as you said, a balanced, effective, but above all human solution. Her intellectual honesty makes her talk about immigration associated with a necessary integration, the only possible union for a concrete and adequate management of the problem. Forza Italia can only welcome the resumption of contacts between Italy and Libya. Diplomatic relations and bilateral agreements are, as already far-sightedly understood by our President, Mr Berlusconi. [[Applause]] , the only way to take effective action on the control of migratory flows. Just as we can only enjoy the intercourse between you and Chancellor Merkel, since the immigration problem is not only an immediate reception problem, but is a much more complex reality, which needs the help of everyone and from all points of view. Speaking of rights, I am obliged to speak of Turkey. I realise that the complexity of diplomatic relations, including in relation to the plan on immigration and climate change, makes it necessary to resume dialogue and negotiations. However, there must be a clear democratic reversal on the part of the Erdogan Government because, as the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, Turkey is a neighbour with whom good relations must be maintained, but without compromising on the issue of rights. The same must be said for Russia and for Belarus as well. The thaw between Putin and Biden must not cause Europe to forget its autonomy with regard to its decisions and sanctions. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that this European Council can be an opportunity, at least on the part of Italy, to reaffirm the importance not only of an economic community but also of a unity of intent, also from the point of view of the protection and protection of human and civil rights. And even if it is not on the agenda, allow me, President, to highlight the issue of the rights of LGBT people. In March, MEPs declared the European Union LGBT area of freedom, in response to the withdrawal of civil rights in some countries, notably Poland and Hungary. So, Mr President, if on the one hand we have become strong again in Europe, on the other I ask you to make it even more so, because I firmly believe that with you it is possible to be an example not only of good economic and programmatic management, but also of democracy and respect for rights. To you, President Draghi, the honour and burden of bringing Italy back to the centre of the continental scene; I am sure you will have no problem at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u12	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you said, it is now up to us. I mean us as a country community, that is, the citizens, the institutions, Parliament and everything else. I will not repeat - we all know - that this is an opportunity not to be missed. It is here, especially with regard to reforms, which are necessary as a prerequisite, that serious problems will begin - I am afraid -. In any case, you have touched on the issues that will be on the agenda. I want to tell you three things, which are, by the way, the full resolution of the majority, which will be deposited shortly. Migration. Apart from some hints, a little redundant and very twisted in the premises, relative to the responsibilities of the flag countries of those who save migrants (which does not exist in any international convention and in any right of the sea, is an Italian invention), I think you do very well to insist. For some battle you have to battle years and years, so persistence is a virtue. I would like to take this opportunity to see, as always, the Minister of the Interior to say that perhaps an additional element of credibility, both human and political, lies in doing our homework. Now, I do not know why, but of the 207,000 applications for permits for agricultural work, as you remember - and I am glad that there is Mrs Bellanova, who has fought so much for agricultural workers and domestic aid - it is not conceivable and certainly not exciting that after a year there are only about 25,000 requests escaped. There may be some mischievousness, as President Draghi called it, but I would like to stress this problem in order to make a further effort on this sector, waiting for European and global solutions, so as to add security - because legality also gives security to citizens as a whole - all the more so as the agricultural workers' season is opening up. Finally, in wishing you good work and telling you that in good and bad luck + Europe - or myself - will support you, I would also like to point out that it is true that we are asking Turkey for more rights and more, but is it not time to ask our Hungarian and Polish colleagues to be more consistent by stopping using the European Union as a pure ATM and violating everything else? This, in my opinion, is also a matter of credibility. It happens that when I meet... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u14	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Government, I would like to thank President Draghi and then wish him well. Thanksgiving is because it has contributed with its action and with this majority to restore centrality to Italy both in the European context and in the wider international context: Italy's taillight, Italy's watering down, is today only a bad memory. [[Applause]] The wishes that I address to you and that, through your person, I address to all Italians and to Italy as a whole, are due to the beautiful promotion with full votes that yesterday recognized Europe for the Italy Plan tomorrow, which has had an important success - let us remember for intellectual honesty - only and exclusively thanks to this Government. [[Applause]] Now we have to move on and we have to do it on two paths. The first is reform, so that we can speed up the time and improve the spending performance of this funding, starting with justice. In this regard, I would like to take the opportunity to say that anyone who should support the referendum questions that the League, together with the radicals, has raised, because they are not against anyone but in support of this Parliament and this Government. We need to reform public administration and reset the procurement code; we also need to optimise these investments so that, as you yourself have said, Mr Draghi, they are structural and not occasional. On vaccinations, the word given has been maintained: vaccinations go on as well as from program; you have to monitor the variants and you have to make the due compliments to that emblem that today has become the General Son, who travels far and wide Italy, proud of both the uniform he wears (that does not put fear but that reassures), both for the important results that he is bringing home. [[Applause]] Among the various things that the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said yesterday, he also said that Italy was an example of solidarity. More specifically, he said: you, coming out of the pandemic crisis, have inspired an entire continent and demonstrated what the real meaning of solidarity is. Well, now we expect Europe to show concrete solidarity with Italy on the issue of immigration. [[Applause]] You have done very well, Mr President-in-Office, to bring this problem to that place, because it is the right and competent one to deal with it and to resolve it. However, Europe must do so now. Among other things, in order to remain on the subject of solidarity, yesterday, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you gave a further answer by making 15 million doses of vaccines available to the poorest countries, so that the whole world goes on more or less the same way. On the way back to immigration, however, Europe must be quick, because the numbers are worrying. This year, in fact, we have had to date over 17,000 landings that are many more than last year: in 2020 at this time of year we had 5.637, in 2019 even 2.154. Today I would like to recall another episode, since we are talking about irregular immigrants or uncontrolled immigrants. I would like to express closeness and solidarity to that policeman who, a few days ago, at Termini station in Rome, did his duty exclusively to protect public security. [[Applause]] We expect that criminal proceedings will be filed immediately, that others will be investigated, but not those with honor wear that uniform. In the meantime, Madam Minister for the Interior, what should Italy do? I do not think it should wait for Europe. I believe that Italy must do its duty, must work, defend its borders by land and sea, as many other countries do: Spain defends its borders, France defends its borders, Malta defends its borders, Slovenia defends its borders; everyone defends their borders, we do not understand why Italy should not do so in the meantime too. [[Applause]] The Next generation EU plan speaks of tomorrow's Italy and we see it on the horizon, Mr. Draghi: a Italy of tomorrow that walks on the legs of trust and courage; that confidence and courage that the Italians have shown to have in this year and a half difficult. We see a fast, effective Italy, a just Italy, able to guarantee social cohesion, and an honest Italy, able to invest these resources by keeping out the entire galaxy of organised crime. This is the happy and irreversible path to which we are destined to direct ourselves, just believe it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u16	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened to your speech and, apart from congratulating myself on having stopped that prone policy of adequacy and proportionality that could never have taken us out of the pandemic emergency, I must say that on the other hand I cannot agree with what was included in the majority motion for a resolution. As Senator Bonino, who obviously means foreign affairs, mentioned earlier, it cannot be considered correct to say that flag states have to take responsibility for migrants. It is a nonsense in fact before even in law, because if you imagine a Chinese or Korean ship, which carries 20,000 units equivalent to twenty feet (TEU) in the Mediterranean, you will immediately realize that you cannot take charge of bringing migrants to Korea, otherwise it is clear that that ship, like all ships in that condition, will pull straight. The rule, in fact, is based on the need for effectiveness. That is why the motion for a resolution by the majority in these areas is not only not acceptable, but it is mystifying and I have therefore tabled another one. In fact, I would like the government that you have presided over and that has done well in the pandemic emergency, with the same determination, determination and determination, to cease funding for the Libyan Coast Guard. Attention, on 21 and 22 April 130 people died because of the total inability to coordinate the Libyan Coast Guard. There is no coordination of the Libyan Coast Guard and this is the subject of an exhibit that I too am modestly helping to sign and carry on. As the Italian Coast Guard also says, through its representative for public relations, the Libyan Coast Guard has no instrument of coordination. That's why he couldn't send the ships to the rescue area to a dinghy with 130 people. So let's stop and stop pretending to be a Libyan Coast Guard subsidy. We have spent hundreds of millions of euros on criminals, who are collateral to traffickers; do we want to pretend that we do not understand and do not know? So let's stop financing the Libyan Coast Guard. We need to get our Coast Guard back into the sea beyond 12 miles. The 12 miles are territorial waters and the rescue at sea is not only done in the territorial waters, otherwise, off Ischia, beyond the 12 miles we should not save anyone. Let's be clear. And again, you have to activate and regularly manage legal channels of entry. These people are not irregular, those we take at sea are shipwrecked, this is the greatest mystification. One more word, one more word, because you, Mr President, said that if you had been asked the question, you would have answered it. The Holy See's verbal note on the Zan bill, which you... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u18	I'm sorry, I didn't give anyone more time. However, you may submit your observations which will be annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u19	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u20	Mr President, on foreign policy, as you mentioned, the next European Council will return to the issues of relations between the European Union and Russia. The 5 Star Movement continues to reaffirm the importance of resuming and reinvigorating the constructive dialogue with Moscow so that a proactive relationship can be consolidated with an actor who remains undeniably a key partner for Europe in both commercial and geopolitical terms. Taking a break-up and contrasting approach would be harmful and counterproductive. In view of the objective worsening of relations between Brussels and Moscow, on which the case of the pro-Western opponent Navalny, Italy, while always supporting international law and respect for human rights, must make every effort to prevent the sofa between the European Union and Russia from deepening, keeping open the channels of cooperation with Moscow. That is why we look forward to the debate on the report by the High Representative and the Commission on the strategic options for relations between the European Union and Russia. President Draghi, in my opinion, Italy must maintain its traditional relations of friendship with Moscow, not only because of its national economic interest and its intense bilateral trade relations, but also because of the strategic role that the Russian Federation plays in the stabilisation of some regions that are fundamental for our country. Just think of Libya, where the role of Moscow is indispensable for the success of the process of reconciliation and national pacification. However, shortcomings in the protection of human rights cannot be ignored. The progressive narrowing of the sphere of fundamental freedoms in Russia, as elsewhere, must always give rise to concern; fundamental rights and freedoms which represent the essential pillars of the culture of the European Union and of our country and which, as such, are not negotiable. Human rights must be defended as an absolute value and should not be used for political purposes. [[Applause]] , all the more so when this can aggravate an already very worrying situation such as the Ukrainian one, where we risk a new war at the gates of Europe with the potential involvement of NATO. What happened today in the Black Sea (he must have heard) shows that tension is dangerously high. As far as relations between the European Union and Russia are concerned, as mentioned above, we ask you to represent at the European Council the opportunity to avoid excessive and risky stiffening in relations with Moscow. As you mentioned in your speech, a further subject that has already been discussed extensively before in the European Council is the relationship with Turkey. At the European Council in March 2021, the de-escalation of tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean was welcomed, resulting from the interruption of illegal drilling activities and the resumption of bilateral talks between Greece and Turkey. As we have repeatedly pointed out, the 5 Star Movement shares the position expressed by the European Union regarding the strong belief that Turkey is an essential actor for maintaining the stability and security of the Eastern Mediterranean. The European Union and Italy have a strategic interest in developing mutually beneficial relations with Ankara, based on dialogue, but not irreversible. Here too, we must not forget the various events in which Turkey has opposed the true essence of European values, not least the very serious decision to withdraw from the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence signed in Istanbul, but also the systematic repression of political dissent and freedom of the press and persecution against the Kurdish minority. If Turkey consolidates and maintains a positive, constructive and cooperative attitude, without taking action or taking provocative or damaging positions under international law, it will have to be a privileged interlocutor on the issues of cooperation in the management of migratory flows, the fight against jihadism and terrorism and the exploitation of offshore energy resources, avoiding feeding tensions with other European countries. President Draghi, these are the problems that we ask you to highlight in Brussels, in order to build solid foundations for the start of a new advantageous season in Euro-Turkish and Euro-Russian relations. Finally, I want to express the strong concern of the Movimento 5 Stars about the very serious situation in the Ethiopian region of Tigray, in light of the recent government air raid that caused the death of at least 80 civilians. The European Union strongly calls for an immediate ceasefire to stop this conflict, which is already causing waves of refugees. The stabilisation of the countries of origin of migratory flows must be a strategic priority for Europe, from the Horn of Africa to the Sahel, where Italy is engaging in a very delicate military anti-terrorism mission. President Draghi, like Movimento 5 Stars, we therefore wish you good work, hoping that you will continue your work in Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u21	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u22	Mr President, I think that this is indeed a turning point European Council because it comes after a G7 in which the United States has returned to ancient times. Biden re-launched the path of multilateralism in relation to Trump's attitude, which it would be wrong to define as a soloist, as it was an approach based on the relationships of strength and one-to-one type. Biden said very clearly that the opponents remain those of before, but that he intends to build proposals and approaches with the historical allies. Therefore, by relaunching the multilateral method, it does so within the World Health Organisation. It is good that the Italian proposals have taken hold and that we go towards an increasingly structured collaboration and attention to the developing countries, because this remains one of the most formidable diplomatic weapons in order not to leave free the attempt to build a new international order by China. The Belt and road initiative project is legitimate, just know it and understand it. It is correct for China to do its part. It is correct for the United States and Europe to react together, with an equally important proposal, and I believe that we should concentrate on giving substance to the Build back better world proposal. We must be able, however, not to copy the Chinese project, instead we must build an overall infrastructure project with our characteristics, typical of the models of liberal democracies, pushing the attention and protection of human rights, respect for the environment and social responsibility of companies, otherwise we do not understand what the difference is. We must show that we are different from the Chinese approach. The fact that we have the United States next to us is good news: with our autonomy, loyally, by doing our battles, this can be strengthened and can be supported, because we have found positive cooperation also thanks to the work we had done with the previous Government and strengthened by you and your credibility, President. In this collaboration between Germany, France and Italy, Turkey, Sahel and Libya, relations with Turkey are being held together, for which we accept - I think this was also the point of your meeting with President Merkel the other day - to support an important investment by the European Union on the Balkan route, with the call for attention on the security of the Sahel, which risks becoming the gymnasium of Islamic fundamentalists. From there the arms trade passes and above all the trafficking of human beings passes. As for the stabilisation of Libya, we were the first to go. You, President, have met your Libyan counterpart; you must move very carefully, with the cooperation of the European countries. On immigration, he did well to point out that he put it back at the centre of the political agenda; it is a good thing that the Dublin Regulation is being exceeded; it is a good thing to strengthen humanitarian corridors and assisted voluntary returns: we are the ones who use it least at European level, so to ask Europe for more resources for this model I think it is a useful step forward, as well as making readmission agreements at European level, because we are stronger and more credible. The sore point is certainly that of relocations. We do not go on the road to automatic mechanisms. I think we need to say something very clear about this, Mr President: we need to reaffirm the solidarity bond, we need to find the reasons for being together, we need to face together the great international challenges that we are no longer able to face, as States, alone. [[Applause]] This means telling the Eastern European countries that if they are not there, there will be sanctions from the point of view of resources. Territorial cohesion policy has enabled them to bridge development gaps, thanks to us and our solidarity. Now it is time to show that they too are in this solidarity bond. I say this because if this is not the way, I think that we will have to say very clearly - even in the context of the Conference on the future of Europe - that we are about to use the runway clauses and move from unanimity to qualified majority on immigration issues. I think this is a battle that Italy has to do. [[Applause]] Let us remember that the European Union is not only a single market, in which people and goods travel freely, it is not only an innovative and extraordinary tool to face the international challenges we face and we are no longer able to face alone, but it is also a community of people who believe in values and principles that are the basis of European construction. Well, we cannot fail to see that in countries such as Poland and Hungary these principles and values which have to do with women's rights, freedom of choice and fundamental freedoms are put at risk. [[Applause]] The Undersecretary Amendola did well yesterday, having not had the answers and the clarifications due, to sign the letter with the other European countries. This applies to all latitudes, also in our country. We have the necessary antibodies, but we must never lower our guard and therefore we must also strengthen in Italy the instruments - we are doing this in Parliament - to fight and fight against all forms of hatred based on discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. [[Applause]] From this point of view, Mr President, I want to say very clearly, from the Democratic Party, that we hope, with regard to the current developments, that we will look at what Parliament is doing, that it will be open to confrontation, debate, listening, doing so in the most correct way possible, respecting national and international standards. We want, with the Government next to us, to be inspired by the principle of secularism: free Church in free state. We will move in this direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u24	Mr President, I have the honour and responsibility to speak on behalf of the Alternative component, which was recognized yesterday as a member of the Mixed Senate Group. We are the second political opposition force recognized, made up of 19 Members, the only one who will speak today to challenge, in a critical but constructive spirit, his illustration of what he intends to do at the next European Council. He spoke in particular of economics and pandemics. I shall confine my critical report to these two issues on time. As far as economic recovery is concerned, you have set out an economic framework which you have described as positive and of strong improvement and growth. However, we have a very different view from his. We are strongly aware that there are six million total poor people in the country and that in the last quarter alone there have been 243,000 new unemployed. We do not understand, therefore, how you can define the national economic framework as positive. Perhaps it will be the case for large industrialists and the financial elite; it certainly is not the case for those who work for a few euros per hour, for those who try to defend their labour rights by losing their lives and for common families. Let us admit for a moment that the economic picture, as you say, is really positive. We hope that we are wrong, but if you are right, then you should have no difficulty in recognising and strengthening labour protection and, in particular, you should have no difficulty delaying the end of the redundancies. Go to Europe and with its European counterparts find ways to protect the right to work of all those who are at risk of losing their jobs today. It does not only the interests of Confindustria, but also of the workers and the weaker classes. You have announced an expansionary policy, but you have taken care to limit it over time. You have spoken of a European expansionary policy for the coming months. We do not need expansionary policies for the coming months, but for the coming years and, at least, for the whole of next year. When you talk about a medium- and long-term policy that will have to aim for debt reduction, you say something that terrifies us. You remove the issue of the sterilization of pandemic debt from the European agenda. That is what you have to talk about in Europe; you have to say that all the debt that has been made by Italy and other countries to contain the effects of the pandemic - President, I ask you to listen to me because I am the only opposition force that dares to speak today - must not be considered and must be sterilized. It must not be said that in the medium and long term we will have to retrace those paths of austerity that were dear to previous governments. Let's move on to the theme of the pandemic. The entire narrative of the government, and its in particular today, tends to highlight the improvements that would result from the policies of closure and vaccination. He never mentions the issue of the virus's seasonality. So, this partiality and this lack of objectivity in the data worries us. I'll give you a specific case. I asked for the daily data of new infections and deaths for Covid to be broken down by how many of them had been vaccinated. This data is not present. I asked for it from the Higher Institute of Health and the Ministry of Health and I didn't get any answers. You must say in Europe that there are the means to provide the broken down data, so that all of us can get an idea and science can get a correct idea and not functional to the narration of the government, as has already happened in the past and as unfortunately has already shown us the head of Cabinet of Minister Hope. Now his whole relationship... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, in the initial part of your report, Mr Draghi, you spoke about the risks that still exist, even in a positive economic context: the pandemic risk and the issue of inflation. 2% of inflation in May, with an increase of about 0.4 percent in April, raises some concerns. The markets have already served a strong rebound in the North American and European economy, as well as significant growth in global demand. However, markets now focus on 2022-2023, i.e. at the end of the extraordinary fiscal stimulus policies, large debt investments, moratories, zero rates and the purchase of public debt, fearing a recession. Are these fears justified? I, President Draghi, respond that it depends a lot on what the central banks will do and how governments will spend the resources allocated to debt. The quality of expenditure, the quality of investment, the grounding of these substantial resources will be the key to reading, if we have seen correctly and if our optimism, which is needed today, is a well-placed optimism. [[Applause]] 191 and a half billion debt, with GDP growth at the end of the PNRR of 3.6%, do not put us in the mathematical condition of being able to repay the debts we have. You say that indirectly in your speech, but we need to understand what we are talking about. Gobernar no es asfaltar, there's this famous broker. Who, like you today, has the responsibility to govern our country, also has the ability to propose solutions. There is no doubt that there is a renewed confidence in Italy in Europe. Mr President, without complaint, there is an essential trust in your person, and we must be grateful for that. [[Applause]] We all remember when, not later than a year ago, they sent us home to do our homework, when they rejected all our proposals without even worthy of consideration. Mr. President Draghi, you speak a modest senator coming from Veneto; you have a 50% blood of my land that is a little recognized and therefore I allow myself. In three months' time, Chancellor Merkel ends her term of office, Mr President, be patient, you have a responsibility to Europe: who will govern Europe in the coming years? President Draghi, you know that in the Gospels there is the parable of talents, for those who believe in it; one of the grave sins that have taught us at catechism is the sin of omission. [[Applause]] You have a historical responsibility, which leads us to replay, through you, an important role for our country; I think you will not miss it. Our President Berlusconi, right from the start, from the appeal of the President of the Republic to put aside the logics of partisanship and to commit ourselves, identified in her the figure absolutely able to ferry us out of this situation. [[Applause]] It will be up to you, Mr Draghi, to confirm on the ground the confidence that not only Italy but the whole of Europe has confirmed them. President von der Leyen's visit yesterday is a further confirmation if there is still a need. You mentioned the subject of migration. I'm talking about economic diplomacy. We must use economic diplomacy to reduce migration and prevent it from maintaining its present size. [[Applause]] We do not lack the resources and we do not lack the skills. Mr Draghi, on the subject of PNRR and investment in resources, I would like to remind you that the Italian production system is mainly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, which constitute its core system. In a national logic, we must be able to ensure that investments fall in favour of these companies. [[Applause]] , that they do not arrive general contractor from Germany, France, England or from who knows where and that our companies are not forced to take sub-contracting work to the maximum decrease. Mr Draghi, this is an opportunity and Forza Italia will not miss our strong support. Good work and, Venetian, never Molar! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u28	Mr Alberti Casellati, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I take advantage of this debate to put two points of attention to you and the House, one in a short-term perspective and one in a medium-term perspective. I think it is our duty to separate ourselves from contingency and look forward, because prevention is certainly better than cure, even if this - as I will argue - does not mean, however, that prophylaxis can replace or cancel therapy and vice versa. This applies both to the human body and to the social body. The short-term reflection concerns the strategy of contrasting with the Covid-19. After more than a year of its appearance, we can say that we are dealing with an extremely serious and insidious disease, but that in a large number of cases it has proved to be curable, if dealt with in time. This does not mean, of course, that we must not do everything we are doing, for which we are sincerely grateful, to prevent it, but we do not understand why we do not see an appreciable commitment on the part of the institutions to treat it, that is, to be unequivocally precise, in promoting those early home therapies, on which we now have a wide range of empirical findings and on which our Group has drawn the attention of the Government on several occasions and with various instruments, such as informal interlocutions, questions, motions and today also with a commitment in the motion for a resolution by the majority. I repeat, to the utmost precision: I am referring to home therapies - which therefore do not require and in fact, in many documented cases, avoid hospitalization - and early, that is, they do not intervene only after a worsening of the situation. I want to observe that if our Lord, or natural evolution - I let choose, because we are also for freedom of worship - in short, if someone or something, has arranged for our organism to react to certain intrusions by raising its own body temperature, there will be a reason and it will not be entirely wrong, since from arboreal monkeys we have become conscious individuals. It is therefore a little strange to think that the only advice that the Ministry, surely populated by conscious and conscientious people, is still giving to those who have the misfortune to be attacked by this serious disease, is to wait for the worst, repressing with antipyretics the only natural reaction of our organism, when there are other therapeutic strategies experienced. All this has nothing to do with the useful funds that the PNRR devotes to the topic of territorial health, so much so that, even in the absence of these funds, some doctors of general medicine have organized themselves and react saving lives, respecting the oath of Hippocrates and in the full and legitimate exercise of another freedom: that of cure. [[Applause]] Here too I want to be extremely clear: it is not about promoting DIY absolutely, as someone said, but about involving and enhancing the basic doctors and their freedom of therapeutic proposal, based on the knowledge they have of their patients. It is precisely if you do not do so, that is if you do not promote and regulate early home therapies at institutional level, that you encourage DIY, objectively exposing yourself to risks. But it should also be said, sine ira et studio, that if you need to prevent the potential DIY of patients, maybe you should also manage a certain DIY of yourself ministerial, which lately has appeared to see to some in the well-known cocktail affair, on which I keep silent, for the sake of my country. We trust you to prevail in rationality. If it does not prevail, we fear that the road will be marked: if new beds are not expected and hospitalizations are not prevented, there is a risk that in autumn we will have to resume the road of restrictive measures, despite the success of the vaccination campaign, of which we acknowledge its merit. I come to the medium-term scenario, let's say 2023, which somehow puts us in an equal and opposite perspective. I mean that, while for Covid-19 much is being done to prevent and less to cure, in the case of the other European infection, austerity, much has been done to cure by this Government, with two decrees supporting and other measures that have given relief to citizens and businesses, as you rightly claimed. However, it is perhaps not as clear what is being done to prevent it. The general safeguard clause will be deactivated in 2023 and the Stability Pact will therefore come into force again, which, as we understand, is not also growth. Many, starting from her, warned against the dangers of returning to a business as usual scenario. Everyone says that new rules are needed to prevent the suffocation of the Italian and European economy, but, honestly, it is still not quite clear whether there is and what is our Government's proposal at the table of the reform of the rules. This is the only truly indispensable reform, without which all the others are, unfortunately, doomed to fail, covered up in economic stagnation. No reform of the rules will be credible or effective unless it abandons the reference to potential GDP and output gap, whose procyclical distortion is now proven by extensive literature. Prevention, in this and in other cases, passes from here: from definitively abandoning absurd rules, such as calendar provisioning, whose very serious limitations we denounced first, unheard. We trust you're working on it. In summary, a better balance between prophylaxis and therapy would help us in both cases. We trust you that this greater balance will prevail here and in Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u29	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, economic recovery is one of the issues you are discussing today. You will be in Brussels tomorrow for the European Council and it is a really good time to get there, after the approval of the Italian PNRR by the European Commission, whose amount, which amounts to more than 200 billion, represents more than a quarter of all the funds that Europe has made available to the Next generation EU (or recovery fund that you say you want). It is undeniable that this approval marks a great recognition for the work done by our country and constitutes yet another confirmation that the path indicated to Europe by President Conte to face the economic and health crisis caused by the pandemic was the right path, forward-looking and innovative, indeed revolutionary. Now everything seems easy, all taken for granted, all almost elementary, but just over a year ago, in the middle of the pandemic, it was not at all. There was a tough political confrontation between the so-called frugal countries, the rigorists, the supporters of austerity on the one hand and those who, on the other hand, looked far away and wanted a different, more just, more supportive and more inclusive Europe. We at Movimento 5 Stars fought for a new Europe that put people at the heart of political action. We wanted a true Union of modern and democratic countries, who wanted to be together to make sustainable development and to improve the living conditions of citizens. Today, as then, we did not want a Europe as a coacervo of interests of businessmen and bankers. I remind the forgetful that in the most dramatic moments since the beginning of the pandemic there were those who still wanted to face the impending and colossal economic crisis with the very insufficient funds of the ESM and the EIB. In those moments, some Dutch politicians, friends and allies of Salvini and Meloni, shouted: not a penny to Italy. Now it almost makes you smile. It seems like a century has passed and, instead, it's only been a year and we owe these gigantic advances to President Giuseppe Conte and his Government. The approval of the PNRR, whose text is almost identical, according to some 95%, to that prepared by the previous Government, is the definitive recognition of the great work done by the Government Count II, of which the current one rightly follows in the footsteps. Thanks to this enormous work, 25 billion will arrive in Italy in July. That's the first tranche of the recovery fund. So, who for months has been falsely yelling that we were late, I hope you apologize or shut up for a while. If all this is said by me alone or only by the Movimento 5 Stars, it could be mistaken for a biased view. A few days ago, however, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell, said that he expressly paid tribute to the tenacity of Giuseppe Conte in achieving this result. By the way, he mentioned taboos that were broken. I think it is necessary to remember all this because in this House, but also in some permanent Commissions, someone wanted to diminish the enormous work done in recent months, talking about a formula: according to a Senator of the Brothers of Italy the more than 200 billion of the Next generation EU have arrived in Italy thanks to a formula. I know this is absurd, but it has been said here, in the Budget Committee, I have heard it with my own ears. Then I would like to ask the representatives of the centre-right. If it was so easy, why was this not done in 2008-2009, when Europe was hit by the subprime mortgage crisis? Why was it not done in 2011 (Government Berlusconi), when Italy, in the midst of a crisis on sovereign debt, was attacked by international speculation? If it was so easy, to say of the representatives of the center-right, to apply the so-called formula, because, instead of obtaining - as we have succeeded today - 230 billion, of which 80 lost money, the governments of the time have bowed to the austerity imposed by Europe, which has created more than 5 million poor in Italy, that has killed hundreds of thousands of companies, that has cut the pensions of millions of Italians, that has impoverished an entire nation, that has precarious millions of young people? Why, if it was so easy - always to say of these same exponents - did not move a single eyebrow, an eyebrow or made a minimal protest, when on August 5, 2011 came the letter from the outgoing and incoming Presidents of the ECB, in which we listed the reforms tears and blood that Italy would have to apply and then in fact applied? You have therefore impoverished the country, destroyed the lives of millions of Italians, except then to blame Senator Monti supported by yourself. I conclude by saying that we are now in a new phase thanks to the battles of the 5 Star Movement and our parliamentary strength. We trust that our political proposals will bear even richer fruit. We are confident that some bulwarks of that time, such as the budget balance in the Constitution, the stability mechanism, the absurd and unscientific parameters on debt and deficit, will be called into question and changed forever. We are convinced that a new Europe is at the door, the Europe of development, solidarity, social justice, citizens and states, not the Europe of bankers and lobbyists. We trust to do this all together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u31	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr Draghi, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced of one thing: we must intervene on those factors that cause migration. It is necessary to combat the causes of migration processes and not migrants. We must fight wars, famines, climate change, poverty, those factors that cause hundreds of thousands of people to flee in search of more promising prospects. It is necessary to invest in the places of origin, so that people find employment opportunities in their lands and are not forced to leave. President Draghi, your proposal to the European Council to tackle together at the root the migration issue, as if it were a matter of foreign policy for Europe and not just of internal policy, can be strategic, because it allows us to shift the centre of gravity and focus on the countries of departure, in an attempt to create there the conditions for us to stop migrating in mass and to avoid too many massacres in the Mediterranean. We insist, that is, on the need to intervene upstream, so as not to limit ourselves to mourning the dead at sea, investing in advance to create development and reduce departures. It is therefore a real change of paradigm, which certainly cannot become an excuse for some countries to escape their obligations in the reception of refugees already arrived. That is why in Brussels we must continue to demand shared management, through a reform of the Dublin Regulation, which distributes them fairly among the different States, by requiring those who refuse to accept migrants to at least bear the costs of defending their external borders. Turning to the other side in the face of the migratory challenge and leaving the border countries alone is an attitude that cannot be tolerated further. Countries such as Hungary, which have for some time snubbed the migration dossier, must be forced to change their attitude. It is right to insist on a European strategy of legal entry into our countries and support for voluntary returns, also favoured by appropriate incentives, given in the light of agreements and partnerships drawn up ad hocly with various countries, starting from Libya and Tunisia, the Sahel and the Horn of Africa. In short, a change of vision that engages all the European countries to face the problem from its foundation; a vision, therefore, that can mark an important turning point in facing the migratory phenomenon, putting the development of the African continent on the agenda of the European agenda, exactly as Italy had already begun to do with the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments. Now we need coordinated action from the whole of the European Union, so that it can have a significant impact, because it is a matter of humanity, but also of common sense. By the end of this century, the African continent will see its citizens quadrupled, which means that it will express 40% of the entire world population, among other things with a very young average age, around twenty years old, compared instead to a decrease in the population in Europe, increasingly older. That is why we need a new approach to migration policies. It is a good thing that it is Italy that is responsible for it, because the future of a continent like Africa cannot be emigration, especially a wild and dangerous emigration, with which thousands of human lives are in danger every day in the Mediterranean. We must create sufficient opportunities for growth in Africa itself, so that people on the spot can benefit from it, but also those who have had the ability and intelligence to invest in that continent, Europe at the head. This is why a change of approach, which declines migration policy as a foreign policy, without neglecting the historical battles in this area, can be a useful strategy for making progress on several fronts. Also because the international chessboard is redefining. We are witnessing increasingly aggressive attitudes, even on the threshold of our home, by countries such as Turkey, Russia and China, which increasingly trample on internal rights and freedoms, harm the interests of other States through illegal attacks and fail to respect international law. The European Union has no interest in accepting all of this; indeed, starting from the Mediterranean, it is necessary to promote stabilisation processes at international level. That is why Europe should continue to condemn the violations of rights, whether civil or international, and call for unilateral provocative actions against other states to be avoided. In short, Mr President, we are on the eve of an important European Council, which coincides with the baptism of the Next generation EU, the most brilliant response that Europe could give to a dramatic pandemic like the one from Covid-19, which risked bringing the whole world to its knees. Yesterday's visit to Rome by President von der Leyen also confirmed for our country the whistle of the beginning of an extraordinary new game, a rich season of investments dedicated to the recovery and implementation of those reforms that the country needs for decades. It is a bet and we are happy, Mr Draghi, that you, on behalf of Italy, are playing this game in Europe. Good work and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u33	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr Draghi, the first item on the agenda of the European Council on 24 and 25 June is the updating of the assessments of the epidemiological and vaccination situation and the coordination efforts in response to the pandemic by Covid-19. You, Mr President, in my opinion, expressed in your speech an excess of optimism over what is happening in Italy (I tell you with due concern) and I hope that it will be optimistic that it will turn into action. The picture, Mr President, is a little different from what is probably related to it. We have a pandemic government team that, compared to what has happened since the first months of 2020, has collected a series of negative data and negative records, a palmarès of defects that would have suggested much more caution in judgments. In particular, from the first moment, in the absence of vaccines, the WHO recommended three actions, which remained in history: the need to test the presence of the virus in the population (testing); the need to trace the positives in order to isolate the outbreaks; the need to treat the virus with appropriate therapies, first among all those home. Well, Mr President, compared to these macro-colons to face the pandemic, our nation has failed miserably on all three. First of all, we are still not doing the swabs today and we have been shouting them for a long time in this House. Yesterday, during the hearing in 12a Commission, Professor Rezza woke up as Snow White after a long hibernation and said that the mistake in the spring of 2020 was that he did not make the swabs; and then we found ourselves in the second wave. So, the part about the virus research in non-symptomatics has still failed and we're not doing it. Mr President, I assure you that we are not doing this, in a totally guilty way: if we do not go looking for the non-symptomatic and do not sequence the famous variants, we will find ourselves in the same difficulty that we have had to endure in recent months. Mr Rezza and Mr Brusaferro also said this with great sunshine yesterday at the 12th plenary session of the European Parliament. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. Then I ask you, Mr President, who is to sequence in this country? Who must come to sequence our positives and hypothetical outbreaks of variants? This is the real danger compared to the mass vaccination that we are doing. The other big failure of your team - because this government's team is the same as the previous one - is tracking. We have been told that, due to the large numbers that have largely exceeded the expected size of the phenomenon, tracking has been lost. If you have lost track with the big numbers, today that the numbers are absolutely inferior do we resume that tracking or do we expect to redo the tracking with the app of Conte and Arcuri? I say this to my colleague who spoke earlier: we have seen what has happened quietly. Do we do another tracking tool again? And above all, do we increase the structures of drug-vigilanza and vaccine-vigilanza to have precise concentration and analysis of adverse events? Adverse events are and should be evaluated, tracked and addressed. The third problem is what Mr Bagnai has perfectly illustrated in his speech, namely that of treatment. The vaccine, in fact, is not the treatment of the pandemic but prophylaxis and until proven otherwise will be effective prophylaxis. However, we do not yet know the treatment, nor the home therapies, that is what the doctors of general medicine and the health of the territory must do, because there are no protocols spread by the Ministry and shared in the scientific community. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your team does not allow you - I am sorry, with all the solidarity of the case - to be optimistic. Let me give you another example: your team tells you that you have to vaccinate minors, because you have to reach that infamous, hypothetical, immunity of flock. By now the scientific community tells us unanimously - if you want me to provide you with the data, but ask my colleague Sileri, who is absolutely aware of it - that the messenger RNA vaccine does not cover the possibility of infecting. Therefore we are going to vaccinate minors, who do not need to be covered (because minors do not need them), with a vaccine whose effects we do not know in ten, fifteen or twenty years; in addition they do not need to be vaccinated, because the Pfizer vaccine, the one identified, does not cover the possibility of transmitting the infection. So we do a probable damage and a certain unnecessary cure. Furthermore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, from an ethical point of view, I would do this to myself, because vaccination of children to protect adults is something that has never been seen or done, so at least an ethical answer to this question is due. As I continue my speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to recommend two actions. You have spoken of many risks, of great problems afflicting our nation, first of all the economic one, we would miss it; but we have at our disposal the latest data on the birthday, the real great drama that your Government must face if it really wants to put its hand to the great risks of Italy. The average number of children of women of Italian citizenship is the lowest ever and is equal to 1.18; the average age in which they become mothers in Italy is 31.3 years, it is three years more than in 1995; the percentage of children born to married parents is 33.4 percent, it was 38.1 percent in 1995. The decline in the population living in Italy in 2020 was 0.6%; there are almost 16,000 fewer births than in 2019, with a decrease of 3.8 percent; the increase in deaths (and not only for Covid) is 17.6 percent. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are faced with a demographic abyss that cannot be filled by immigration, although in the first six months of 2021 we had almost 20,000 illegal immigrants and we will arrive at the end of the year with 40,000 more illegal immigrants: they tripled compared to 2020 and tenfold compared to 2019. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have you been close to your Minister for the Interior, can you tell us in reply why in two years the number of illegal migrants in Italy has been tenfold? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u35	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, yesterday President Ursula von der Leyen, during the conference for the signing of the Italian PNRR, which was promoted with full vote, spoke of the beginning of a joint journey. Italy is linked to Europe in an indissoluble way at this time. I have to say that the trip you were president of started a year and a half ago. It has begun since it was decided to share with all Member States the steps to combat the epidemic, including the purchase of vaccines along with the whole of Europe. Therefore, starting with vaccines, a path has been taken to try to combat the epidemic, almost a prelude to a health that is European-wide. This was also the case during the Global Health Summit that took place in Rome in May. I therefore believe that Italy is indeed also giving an important signal on the subject of health, to reach the green pass, the achievement of another important goal in order to have interoperability between all Member States. These are important steps that we must highlight. We also think of Covax, an important look at all countries that cannot afford vaccines. Europe, all together, has decided to buy doses and Italy is doing its part here as well. However, it is necessary to derogate, President, from the regime of the Trips Agreement in order to increase the production and manufacturing capacity of vaccines in developing countries. Mr President, yesterday, for the first time, another very important thing happened; we shared a common debt throughout Europe. It's an important passageway. That's why we're indissolubly all tied up. However, we come to the theme of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), signed yesterday. This is a very important issue, as other colleagues have said. However, I am thinking above all of mission 6, which is an important challenge. You rightly said that we must live up to it and show Europe that we deserve the trust it has given us. Of course we deserve it and it is good to structure the economy, as it has been done, but this same purpose must also be maintained for health. This is a fundamental issue, Mr President. The breath of oxygen of the Plan opens a season of investments never had and never seen in health, on which we, as a Parliament, will be vigilant in order to actually see their use. As you said, we control everything that will happen. Very well, however, we must already now think of finding resources to avoid always being in emergency because we must obviously find and stabilize the healthcare staff that we have foreseen in the PNRR and that in 2026 we need to keep in place; already think of overcoming the spending ceilings, which have been a very important tension, that has dismembered all our services and the National Health System, believing already in the next recruitments, as well as a good programming of the professional figures that we will need and that will be necessary not to find ourselves unprepared. As he said, we found ourselves unprepared to face the pandemic, but this must no longer happen. I believe that this moment must be useful for us to believe and be able to overcome these moments that have found us unprepared. This is also a challenge. Unfortunately, the economy has been seen as a statue of salt, which has failed because of the lack of a health system that would allow us to protect the health of our citizens. Mr President, we once again give you confidence in the very important European Council of tomorrow that is taking place, with all the commitments that we have made to you. Once again, I believe that Italy deserves the confidence, already granted yesterday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u37	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u38	Mr President, I will make a few minutes' speech for us Europeans, no longer a parliamentary group, but an important sub-component of the Mixed Group's Change component. We are also encouraged by the fact that compared to a few months ago, when we began to act politically, almost all of them became pro-Europeans and therefore perhaps we have sown well, perhaps someone has remained convinced of the arguments that we have always put before our political action, namely that the playing field for Italy is the European one and it is not worth wasting time and forces in secondary and provincial camps. We therefore have time to deepen the economic issues; we wish to see your assurances on the rise of core inflation in the macro-areas of Europe and America, as a risk that is not impacting on the sustainability of Italian public debt, which continues to grow, as well as on the Stability and Growth Pact, which, at least until 2023, will not be put back in the previous form. I focus on the issue of migrations in the dual role of migrations and migrations. Immigrations have an external dimension on which the European Union is working well and allocated so much economic resources. However, as convinced Europeans, we believe that the European Union, being an important soft power, cannot just put money on the table, but must offer something more. On the southern shore of the Mediterranean - from Israel to Turkey, Egypt to Morocco and Tunisia (including, as far as possible, Libya and Syria) - we must be able to offer something more. I am thinking, for example, of the customs union, because we are the most important free trade area on the planet. We must be able to offer green development. An important economic report from the European Forum on the possibility of directing the green turning point in these countries has emerged. We must be able to offer cultural and democratic development without, of course, denying our main values. I am thinking of the proposal a few years ago to reinvigorate the Euro-Mediterranean policy, in the sense - for example - of establishing a regional multilateral bank (the famous bank for the Mediterranean), having been a success the FEMIP and the operation of the European Investment Bank. However, you can still do better. As far as the internal dimension is concerned, we have read the draft of the final statement of the European Council. We do not think that it is enough for the Council to postpone to autumn 2021 the presentation, requested by the European Commission, of management action plans. We understand very well the political conditionality of Germany and France on this issue, but for us the crisis is in horas and therefore we certainly cannot wait. At least from a voluntary point of view, among the coastal countries (France, Malta, Cyprus and Greece), the commitment of the Italian Government should be in the sense of getting something before autumn. There is, among other things, the possibility of using the Conference on the Future of Europe, which we Europeans were the first to speak of in Italy on 10 March, when the founding treaties were signed in Brussels, to incorporate the principle of the possible amendment of the Treaties. We are interested in amending the Treaty of Dublin and we must be bold. President Draghi, in the House you said: who would have thought, a few months ago, that we would get to the common debt. We can be so bold as to think that the Conference on the future of Europe is a useful exercise in bringing about changes to the Treaties. Finally, I would like to focus on the issue of Italian emigration. Thank you for mentioning the important Italian community in Germany and Spain on your travels. The European Union will have to negotiate new agreements with the United Kingdom and Switzerland. In these countries there are 1.6 million Italians. You are the only representative of government representing 3.5 million citizens within the European Union. You must be proud of this and we commend you for the attention this audience deserves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, I would like to begin by thanking you for your report, which I appreciated and shared point by point. The pandemic that has upset the world still requires us to place the fight against the virus as a key point in the political agenda. It will therefore be essential at the next European Council to reaffirm the importance and need, even for the coming months, for coordination at European level in the fight against Covid-19. International solidarity to improve access to vaccines in countries that are left behind will be the only way to stop the virus and ensure health safety for all. The scientific community has repeatedly explained to us how the more it spreads, the more variants are generated. Europe must therefore move in the sign of pragmatism, also bearing in mind that countries like Russia and China are actually using vaccines as a geopolitical weapon. Then allow me to reflect in continuity with what emerged during the G7 on the role of China. It will be difficult to ascertain his responsibility in the pandemic [[Applause]] , but with confidence we know that the People's Republic of China is guilty of hiding the truth about the virus for months. We know that it does not respect the rights of workers, who lock up opponents in the camps, who persecute minorities. So, Mr President, even if the next Council is not going to discuss the issue of China in a timely manner, the advance that we believe is necessary to curb the agreement between Europe and China on investment; an agreement that is unclear and defined, which is not convenient for our country and which raises several concerns. At the same time, following the meeting between Putin and Biden, we think it is important to resume a Europe-Russia strategic dialogue, not only because sanctions have damaged our economic fabric, but also in order to fight terrorism and because interfacing with Russia means preventing the embrace between Moscow and Beijing from becoming definitive. As far as Africa is concerned, it is all too clear the importance of a more incisive intervention by Europe in the Mediterranean; the phenomenon of mass migration has been affecting our country for too many years without Europe making significant progress. Mr President, yours is an authoritative voice in Europe. It fights so that the member countries understand that Lampedusa is not only a land of Italian border, but a border of Europe. [[Applause]] The redistribution of migrants is an act of justice due to which European countries cannot escape. At the same time, Europe really needs to deal with Africa. The word "cooperation" is the key. Too many years have passed since that distant 2011, in which Libya has been militarily attacked with the consequences that we still pay today. At the time, President Berlusconi understood how only with stable and mutually beneficial partnership agreements could support the economies of African countries and the agreement with Libya was a clear example. We can, therefore, only be satisfied with the new approach of the Government, which by this way - more complicated, but certainly more fruitful - is trying to sew up solid relations with the countries of the southern shore of the Mediterranean. Control of the flow of migrants' departures will really be possible only by ensuring development to the countries of departure. If Germany looks at its routes and at the agreement with Turkey which has weighed six billion on Community funds over the years, we must look to the Mediterranean and to the agreements with Libya and Tunisia. In this respect, Mr President, in the resolution we will vote on later I asked Mr Amendola, whom I thank for his excellent work, to include a passage in which I particularly care. In this motion for a resolution it is stated that it is necessary to ensure that adequate security measures are ensured in the strategic partnerships of the European Union with the countries of North Africa for companies operating in the Mediterranean. Only a few months ago, in fact, some of our fishermen were kidnapped by Libyans and it was not an isolated case (I ask the President of the Council and also Minister Lamorgese to listen to me). We therefore need to secure our marines so that these fishermen can carry out their work peacefully without endangering their own lives. I hope that you too, Mr President, will take this point to heart and submit it to the European partners. It is also right to raise the issue of respect for rights vis-à-vis Turkey, of course, but also and above all with regard to the countries of Europe. That is why I am very concerned about the new Hungarian legislation against the LGBT community: if Hungary or Poland are not careful to receive European funds, they should also respect European values and principles. [[Applause]] Finally, our businesses, citizens and families are still being tested by the crisis and we need to ensure that they have the financial resources to provide answers in the coming months. The pandemic has put the Union in front of a choice: whether it is just bureaucracy or taking further steps to become a great and strong reality. The Stability Pact shall be suspended until 2022. Let us ensure that in 2023 the old parameters, children of other times, are revised, erasing the austerity Europe in order to continue on the path of development and growth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr Draghi, I was thinking a moment ago, listening to the words of those who preceded me and, in particular, those of Professor Bagnai. This is a season in which we must necessarily have a look at the future thinking well that what we are doing will obviously have a reverb well beyond this generation and will project on the next. The reforms, which are obviously a founding part of his government action and to which we have obviously joined precisely because of the need to give impetus to our country, must commit us particularly. Mr Draghi, however, it is worth noting that this commitment and this debate which we are submitting to us, as we also do for the rules and the impositions of Brussels, totally escapes a review or consideration by Brussels of what would be necessary to reform the European Union itself. There are basic rules that are clear that they were struggling to work before and there are basic rules that clearly cannot guarantee us stability in the future. And, lively God, we also say this in this circumstance: the European Union, like any other state, cannot be the sum of so many particular interests, but it must necessarily grow and finally become something that has general usefulness; otherwise, all this does not make sense and it is simply a projection of a national interest, perhaps, in the specific case of the German one. We must think about these things in terms of democracy and also in terms of the very institutions that represent the citizens. We, in fact, today have a European Union in which citizens are represented exclusively in Parliament, which is either marginal or not major in relation to the same action to regulate. On these things a reflection must bring it. It has managed to impose the debate on migrants on the European agenda. We are satisfied with this, but we also need the European Union to engage in a serious, complete, and not marginal debate with regard to the self-reform of the European Union. Otherwise, everything we are talking about today runs the risk of colliding with the frustrations that are projected on our people. Mr President, we must also remember that at the moment we have to deal with much broader situations, including those of the European Union. I am thinking of economic relations with China, the only country that during the pandemic has not only kept its balance in place, but has still increased its penetration capacity. This can only be done through a serious economic policy and, when necessary, protection against penetrations that have all too often and willingly been described as an opportunity for Italy. Let's be careful. He said before that at this time questions and offers put our production structures in difficulty, up to the risk of an inflationary surge. It is correct what you say and, that is, that it must be managed and monitored; otherwise, the same lack of raw materials that we wanted to refer to in the motion for a resolution and that too little so far has been the subject of debate in this House will create enormous problems because the competitiveness of our country is not only according to the rules we give, but also the costs to which our companies are subjected. The European Union must protect our market and our ability to supply raw materials. Mr President, on this we know that you have special attention, but we want a debate and also a proper conclusion. It is not the time to take money from the citizens, but to give it to them. These words you said some time ago were particularly appreciated by us, also because they drew a clear line on the objective of government. We must also work at European level to ensure that there is a review of individual tax regulations and that the dumping that still exists within the European Union does not continue to put our country in a paradoxical situation in which the largest Italian companies, which have no constraints to stay and go where they want, demobilise and move their tax or administrative headquarters to states always within the European Union where taxation - we know - is much more advantageous than the Italian one. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We have no doubt about that. At this moment it is necessary to give Italians the certainty that doing business is not a luxury; doing business is not an obstacle, but a necessity. Spending money to create growth and jobs is certain that in the future we will be able to restore that debt and return it. Of course, his voice will certainly be strong in the European debate on this issue too. You see, Mr President, in the motion for a resolution that we are about to vote on shortly, we wanted a specific note to be included in the immigration issue: it is therefore fundamental, in the mores of an organic reform of the policies of containment of immigration and of overcoming Dublin, to ensure that the flag States of European ships carrying out rescue operations at sea, cooperate in the identification of a port of disembarkation and assume responsibility for the reception of rescued persons. [[Applause]] All this is in compliance with international conventions on the law of the sea. It is an assumption of responsibility to which we must call all the other European countries, because it must end that mechanism that saw ships flying the flag of other European countries make the last mile of the scafisti and then discharge, as if they were goods, migrants in Italy. We're in the government to stop this from happening, and we know that... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u43	Thank you, Senator Candiani. If you wish, you can attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lorefice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Draghi, colleagues, members of the Government, we are once again - because this is a periodic meeting - in the process of a European meeting, one of the important ones. We have already achieved good results, but tomorrow we will resume to talk about strong issues, such as economic recovery and all the management of the post-pandemic phase, even if the pandemic is not really defeated yet. We will also talk about international relations: the issues are those related to Turkey and Russia. Last but not least (at least from my point of view), we finally return to talk about migration and asylum. Since 2018, this important issue has not been dealt with in a European Council, which sees our nation as one of the most "enhanced" from this issue. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to take a moment off the subject and, before discussing migration, to try to make demands. In addition to the ESM theme, the spread theme was often used as a sweater to attack previous governments. I would like to remind you, but also my colleagues, that, when this legislature began with the Count I Government, we found a spread of over 230 basis points; after Count I and Count II we gave it to him at about 130, so we let him down by over 100 points. Since you were there, from 130 we are at about 105 in today's closing, but we no longer talk about spreads and no longer use the spread as a sweat to attack the government. I now ask you, and I expect - and I sincerely say this - that with your careful guidance this spread can be brought closer to zero. Therefore, I would ask you to take a step forward on this issue too, although not closely linked to the meeting of the next European Council. Another issue, which has also been highlighted by Mrs Masini and on which I would ask her to take a brief step, is that of the legislation on homotransphobia; another issue that is dear to us and to the fore, not only at national level, but also at European Union level. You know very well that some states, which are opposed to or opposed to the national line on migration, have a very critical position (I do not want to use terms that are far more fitting and perhaps more appropriate); these people obviously have a different democratic approach from ours. Respect for the rights of people must always be put at the centre and not used for political ends. I shall return to the subject of migration and asylum. I am Sicilian and therefore I come from one of the most "enhanced" lands by migratory flows. We hear daily that Lampedusa, Porto Empedocle, Pantelleria and many of our first port ports are "enhanced" by thousands of poor Christs, who travel from one part of the world to the other, from the least rich to the richest one and often during these journeys they also encounter death. The European Union has been trying to tackle the problem in this last period, which I think is mildly. Some of the states that held the presidency of the European Semester, to use a football term, made melina, not least Portugal. It is precisely on 14 June that I attended a high-level interparliamentary conference, with the Portuguese Presidency, and I regret to say - but I would like to inform you of this, Mr President - that those who will be running the presidency since 1 July, namely the Slovenes, have already made clear their position, perfectly in line with the so-called Visegrád countries. Therefore, I regret to say this, but I believe that two other states will continue to take time for the next six months, as they have done before. Mr President, on that occasion I was given only a minute and a half to express the Italian position, but in those international fora I do not know how much can be made clear to the other States, in a minute and a half, that our nation, Italy, is the southern border of the European Union, but that it cannot continue to suffer such impacts. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to stand up for yourself and to make it clear that solidarity does not mean that the first port countries are burdened not only with the management of migration. Because it is one thing to receive 1,000 refugees from each of the 27 Member States and another to get 27,000 on the Sicilian coast alone and not to be able to manage them. So the issue is that of compulsory redistribution and on this, in my opinion, there is no turning back. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that we have also dealt with the issue recently with Mr Lamorgese: so, even for controlled flows, we are reopening the flows... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u46	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Granato and other senators, No 2, Senators Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Stefano, Garavini, Laforgia and Casini, No 3, Senator De Falco, and No 4, Senator Ciriani and other senators. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to make a few general points before I respond, I hope, on time to the various speeches. First of all, I thank all of you for the expressions of esteem and encouragement: knowing that there is the support of much of this House is the greatest source of strength for those who have to go out, but also for those who have to stay here and face a difficult and urgent program. [[Applause]] Secondly, this debate takes place after the G7, the NATO Summit and the various bilateral meetings held with Chancellor Merkel and the President of the European Commission. Tomorrow the European Council will take place. These meetings have basically taken note of the fact that the general atmosphere has changed. It has changed for many reasons. The first is that economies are good: in some cases they are good, in others they are good. The second reason is that there is relief, because the epidemic seems to be less serious, it seems to have subsided. The third reason for relief is the transition from Trump to Biden. The fourth reason, in a sense the consequence of the third, is that the work of rebuilding that building based on multilateralism, fairness, negotiations, compromises, if you like, on which development and prosperity have been created since the Second World War. This is the general atmosphere in which the discussions are taking place today. The third point, which I made a little earlier this morning in the House, is that, listening to all your speeches, it appears that we are all Europeans today. If we compare today's atmosphere towards Europe with that of about six months ago, not to mention a year ago, before the Commission's submission of the PNRR, we see the enormous difference. [[Applause]] But why? This sense of greater belonging to Europe on our part is, in a sense, consistent with the fact that even the Member States today realize that, in order to face challenges of this dimension, they cannot be alone. We have to do this together. In fact, just asked to put the issue of migration on the agenda, which, as I said before, was no longer on the agenda of the European Council since June 2018, the response was immediately positive. Attention, however: this does not go to the credit of the person who asked for it. This is explained simply by the awareness that the scale of the challenges we face is supranational. So, in a sense, your speeches today and the general attitude of the members of the European Council are marching by common accord towards greater and stronger recognition of Europe as a reference entity. I will try to respond promptly and briefly to the various speeches. Senator Casini, it's not exactly true that all the problems are still there. It's been done. A simplification decree has been made, a reform of public administration has been made, a reform of recruitment in public administration has been made. There will soon be a competition law. On the reform of justice, you rightly called for it to be fundamental, to be profound and not, as you said, a warm cloth: we will see. Before the end of the month will be presented the draft law delegation on the reform of the code of contracts and concessions. Then, in July, there will be the competition law. The problems are always there, but you are trying to deal with them. with speed, effectiveness and incisiveness. Secondly, it is not that in Libya we have no cards to play. We have and, in my opinion, we have at least as much as all the other actors, who must and want to be involved in that part of the world. The actor who would have more cards to play does not want to be involved in that part of the world: this was also the subject of the talks held in Cornwall. But what we are trying to do is to urge the action of the European Union as such under the auspices of the United Nations and at that point to see whether the United States can support or in any case support the action of the United Nations in that part of the world, once again in the knowledge that that challenge has become too great to be faced by individual countries. Do you remember years ago, when there were other European countries who thought they had a national strategy and the interests of the country to defend in Libya? They are no longer talking about it, indeed, they are trying to review their presence in the Sahel and, in a sense, to reduce their presence in order to rely more on a collective and agreed action. And here is the other evolution that, in my opinion, is positive: before we turned in scattered order, we were damaged and we were competitors; today we are no longer talking about different positions, but we are discussing and marching on the same line. Senator Monti, as a person of great experience of the functioning of the European Union, rightly recalled that the principle of unanimity blocks any reform, or rather action, (to say that it blocks any reform is exaggerated, because at the bottom of the road we have done so much, even with unanimity). Of course, Italy has always tried to overcome this principle, but since we have not yet succeeded in overcoming the principle of unanimity, we need unanimity. We hope that tomorrow will be the road to unanimity, otherwise it will probably be an increasingly widespread application of the principle of enhanced cooperation. This is the path that may need to be followed on the subject of immigration as well. To Senator Masini I say that I completely agree - then I will say more broadly why - on the defence of fundamental freedoms, human and civil rights and the need, not only to manage immigration - even if it is a bad word and I would prefer not to use it - but also to consider an aspect that has probably not been addressed with determination so far. I am referring to integration: once we have legal flows, we must help them to be integrated. [[Applause]] If they are not integrated - this is very important - we do first of all damage to ourselves, because we create potentially enemies of the nation and the country where they have to live by force or by reason, but without being able to count on an introduction into society that, unlike them, we by birth, culture and history automatically have and take by date. This is in general a very important aspect of the management of immigration (continuing to use an expression that, I repeat, I do not like). Senator Bonino rightly calls us to do our homework, without waiting for palingenetic reforms coming from Europe. In fact, as I said before in response to Senator Casini, several things are being done and we will continue to do so. Many speeches have touched on the issue of the attitude and political position that must be taken towards countries with autocratic aspects or in which there are violations of human rights, civil rights and political freedoms, forced imprisonment, the use of workers as slaves and so on. Some of these are great countries, so if we want to solve or address the problem of climate change, we cannot do so without cooperating with China. However, I always remember that the European Union produces only 7% of CO2 emissions in the world; 30% are from China [[Applause]] and the rest of the United States and India. That is why the return of the United States to the multilateral table, which coincided with Biden's arrival, is so important because it has joined the global struggle to combat climate change. [[Applause]] With the same logic, it is very important to cooperate with China and also India, which is the other (lower) source of CO2 production. This also applies to Russia and - although not to climate change - to Turkey. Of these countries, or for one reason or another, everyone needs something. Cooperation is only the first step. The second - and this is especially true for China - is competition. We are competitors of China and must therefore defend ourselves. Competition is not always fair, but it is often unfair (not ours), so we must Defend it. In my opinion, this is natural, as it is that we recognise that China can pursue those goals of economic magnitude, progress and development and that we must defend ourselves and pursue the same objectives. So we must defend ourselves against unfair competition. [[Applause.]] The third pillar of the strategy concerns the position that we must hold as regards, as I said before, human rights, violations of personal freedom and discrimination of all kinds. We must be frank on these issues. In other words, agreements and cooperation are important, but equally is the frankness in saying clearly that these are violations which the European Union does not tolerate and in remembering that, although we have to deal with these countries, our visions of the world are profoundly different. [[Applause]] We therefore need cooperation, competition, frankness and courage. I would like to thank Senator Alfieri for his appreciation of the G7 decision to create a task force that in the future (we will then see exactly what he will do) will have to compete with what was the silk route and with a geopolitics of vaccines, where I do not have to say how successful it is: the data that the President of the European Commission recently provided show that there is basically a huge gap between what is promised and what is being maintained. But, in short, it is another instrument of a geopolitical confrontation that is taking place all over the world, especially in Africa. So it's good that the G7 took this initiative. Senator Alfieri then asked a question about discrimination. I would like to make a moment about the discussion that is taking place in the Senate these days, without wishing to go into the substance of the matter. But what I want to say, especially with regard to the latest developments, is that ours is a secular state. [[Applause),]] non-confessional. [[Applause]] Parliament is therefore certainly free to legislate and debate: these are obvious considerations. Our legal system also contains all the guarantees to ensure that the laws always respect the constitutional principles. [[Applause]] and international commitments, including the Concordat with the Church. There are therefore preventive constitutional controls in the relevant parliamentary committees: it is again Parliament which, first, discusses constitutionality. [[Applause]] Then there are the subsequent controls of the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would like to point out a point that is found in a judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1989: secularism is not indifference of the State to the religious phenomenon, but protection of pluralism and cultural diversity. [[Applause]] Finally, to complete the information, yesterday Italy signed with 16 other European countries a joint declaration expressing concern about the articles of law in Hungary that discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation. [[Applause]] These are the statements I am making today, without of course going into the substance of the parliamentary debate. As you can see, the government is following you, but this is the time for Parliament, not the government. [[Applause]] To Senator Crucioli, who rightly reminded me how the glass can be seen as half full or half empty, I say that evidently he always sees it half empty, while I, perhaps even for constituted interest, tend to see it sometimes as half full. He is right, however, Senator Crucioli, when he says that there are millions of poor: they have increased very much, but look that they had increased even before the Covid-19; clearly they have increased also during and after the Covid. Does that mean we're bad? No, it means that there are the poor, that we have to face poverty and that, at the same time, the economy is recovering and doing it well, thank God, and this also helps us to face this problem. [[Applause]] As for what this government has done for poverty, in the two decree-laws support and support bis the government financed the emergency income for very significant amounts - I don't have the figures with me - taking back a solidarity that, with regard to the categories that most benefit from the emergency income, is often forgotten. In fact, there are the categories that rightly have all the unemployment benefits, insurance and so on, but we often forget the last ones, that is those who have increased the ranks of Caritas: until a few months ago, we had the phenomenon that, for the first time in history, more than 50% of those who were in the ranks of Caritas were Italian. We hope that this will change rapidly, but it is not a matter of ignoring the problem, but of seeing that it exists and of recognizing that the situation is improving and will also help us on that front. As for expansive politics, did I mention a few months? No, maybe even a few years. At present, the only thing I know is that we must not think of a restrictive policy at the moment, which no one is thinking of. Even from other countries, which traditionally had a great deal of budgetary austerity at heart, we are aware that the current one is necessarily an era of great spending commitments. Just think about what we discussed today: the pandemic, international cooperation, economic recovery, vaccines and donations. This is no time to think or imagine an imminent austerity. The third point raised by Senator Crucioli concerns the Stability Pact, which, if I am not mistaken, has also been raised by Senator Bagnai and others. The Stability and Growth Pact, as it was before, is overtaken and this is now a common conviction. It will be about three years that I continue to observe that the tax rules we had were no longer adequate, but today it is finally exceeded. We have plenty of time for a debate that I hope will be balanced and informed, because, on the basis of what Commissioner Gentiloni has told me, it will last for the whole of 2022 and it will start again to see whether to have budgetary rules and what should only be in 2023. Therefore we have all the time, the government is already working on it; it will also be a matter of seeing, rather than trying to make a kind of common front on a certain orientation: in this period, therefore, analytical deepening and economic diplomacy must go together. In reply to Senator Crucioli on the seasonality of the virus, there is no doubt that the vaccination and epidemiological situation has benefited from seasonality, so this call serves to tell us something else that I am concerned about. It is not a free all: this experience we had last year and we had a lesson; now we must learn to be ready with infrastructure, logistics, local transport [[Applause]] and above all to identify at the beginning the small outbreaks that can be created and to deal with them quickly. With regard to the continuation of cooperation with the Regions, I do not recall who remembered that the relationship between Government and Regions is good and it is very important that it remains so. In this regard, we must also thank the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] , Civil Protection, the Red Cross and millions of volunteers [[Applause]] These have not finished their task: we must keep the mobilization high, because we do not know what is waiting for us. I completely agree with Senator Ferro that the quality of the investments we make is crucial. I said yesterday, at the PNRR ceremony with the President of the European Commission, that what I hope, I hope and I want is that this money is well spent, and that means efficiently, but honestly. [[Applause]] So the quality of investments and the honesty of our procedures and spending are fundamental to our growth, but also to demonstrate to the rest of Europe, to countries whose citizens have paid taxes to finance our PNRR, that this money has not been badly spent. That is why it is so important and the responsibility we have is so strong for ourselves and for the rest of Europe. Senator Bagnai rightly recalled the importance of promoting early therapies: I would say that this is widely shared today and therefore territorial assistance must be organised. I have to say, however, that it is being done: the PNRR itself pays a lot of attention to it and there is a substantial investment in telemedicine, just to be able to get to the distant areas immediately. However, apart from telemedicine, territorial support is very present both in current policies and in the PNRR. As far as Senator Marco Pellegrini's speech is concerned, all I see is that we are all European, as I said before. Senator Garavini rightly points out that immigration factors must be combated. This is exactly what is meant by the external dimension of the European Union, a part of which means doing everything to combat these phenomena. Firstly, economic assistance to these countries will have to be significantly increased. It also means bringing technical assistance and know-how. Let's think about the production of vaccines, as many of you have called for. It was recalled that there was a discussion among those who wanted to suspend ownership rights on patents, followed by the defence of property rights by some producing countries, also for good reasons, not incomprehensible. The issue is heading towards a path that I would call constructive. The Commission has submitted a proposal to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) for compulsory licensing to produce vaccines, so not the suspension of property rights. At the same time, production sites are being identified in Africa, but it is not enough, because even if these two steps are taken, which are still all to be done, producing vaccines is complicated. We need to transfer know-how and, in essence, cooperation from the private sector, which I must say has already proved itself in the Global Health Summit. The first result of this discussion is that the large pharmaceutical companies, in the front line the two Biontech and Pfizer, have made in total two billion doses, which will be given to Africa and the low-income countries at the cost price and to the countries of average income with a small profit. So the debate has been extremely fruitful, because it has led to immediate action by the private sector and to a Commission proposal that is hoped to be accepted. To Senator Zaffini, who reminded us of the various problems of the World Health Organization, I would remind you that in the last G7 his reform was discussed. Let us see where this debate will lead, but it is not that the uncertainties demonstrated, especially at the beginning of the pandemic, have gone unnoticed. The senator rightly recalled the need to sequence more. This is very important, but the other point is to quickly identify the outbreaks that occur. I do not agree that vaccines should not be given to minors. Children are vaccinated for measles and meningitis, so vaccines are given to children. [[Applause]] The problem is to see if this is now a priority. As I said this morning, the priority today is to try to vaccinate people over 50 years of age and persuade even those who do not want to vaccinate. This is now the main objective, precisely in view of an autumn that we do not know what it will be like. Senator Boldrini invites caution, always on the front of vaccination. Of course: we must appreciate the improvements, but it is not the moment of triumphalism. I don't want to repeat what I just said. It's time to be... (There is a strong wheezing in the background.) Maybe it's the President who's taking my word off. I've talked too much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u48	I would not allow myself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Probably, there's some wire on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u49	Draghi, President of the Council of Ministers. I feel like I've answered a lot of questions. I'd like to remind Senator Lorefice that the immigrants he talked about are not 27,000, but 19,000. Senator Candiani, I want to say something. Business must not be a luxury - I agree - but also the protection of labour rights must not be a luxury. [[Applause]] I'm saying this to be balanced. He also recalled the need to reform the European Union. Think how much it has changed: with the PNRR, completely; we have moved from a fairly nationalistic management of positions to a shared one. As I said before, there are countries that have taxed citizens, so that they can give us PNRR grants and subsidies. That's one of the many changes. On the migration front, let us not expect triumphant results, as the negotiations are long and must be persistent and incisive, but above all continuous. At both multilateral and bilateral level there could also be results, but I do not know how fast. Thank you. I apologize for the length of the replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u50	I would ask Mr Amendola to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u51	Mr President, the opinion is against motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 3 and 4 and in favour of No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u55	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I will not use all five minutes at my disposal, because I have spoken before. I would like to say to the President-in-Office that I very much appreciated the analytical answers he gave. Parliament is not a clausometer, it is not to applaud the Government, but to establish an important dialogue with the Government. And the spirit with which you, Mr Draghi, have responded analytically to your colleagues means that you have understood exactly that our spirit is to try to make our contribution. Of course, to make our contribution means not only that we dump it on you, but that we take responsibility for the problems, because most of them, like those evoked by the so-called Zan bill, are in condominium exactly between government and Parliament. In this regard, I must say that we can divide ourselves on all merit, but we cannot discuss whether Parliament is entitled to express its own free opinion and whether ours is a secular state in which there is a distinction between religious convictions and the dimension of public institutions. If that were not the case, we would be a confessional State, which is a model that is proposed in the world, very distant from us, from countries of other cultures and religions where there is the theocratic State, but this is not our State. I would like to add, on the subject of Libya, that it is very clear to me, Mr President, that Italy and France - which you did not quote from diplomatically, but you know that these are the problems - have gone in order. Today, unfortunately, compared to before, Europe finds itself acting when Russia and Turkey have their men on the ground and that is why the Berlin Conference today calls for the date of the elections not to be postponed and for mercenary troops to leave Libya. Obviously, we will have to do everything we can to get these troops out of here, facing enormous difficulties. On behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, I support the motion for a majority resolution, of which we are convinced. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u58	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, on tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there are not only the things you rightly said, but also a fact that you did not mention, but that you know very well and it is special: for the last time Angela Merkel is participating in the European Council in the fullness of her powers, or rather, at the last ordinary European Council; the next one, in October, will probably still see the Government, because the German electoral system provides for a long negotiation before a new Executive is formed, but she will no longer see the Chancellor in full power. I should like to start from this, Mr President, by thanking you and wishing you every success, and by ensuring that you are also supported by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats - because what I have mentioned is another of the things you have indicated that are shaking and transforming Europe. Sixteen years of Merkelian leadership in Europe only much more than just a season. The government in Germany will be a change of era, not just a change of government, and, in this respect, it is interesting to understand what role Italy and the President of the Council Draghi will play. Imagine these scenes as if they were photographic slides: Friday in Spain, in Barcelona, the President of the Spanish Council Sanchez gave you a standing ovation for what he did on the role of the euro and for what he is doing in the European Council; then the meeting with Angela Merkel and finally in Cinecittà yesterday, in a symbolic and fascinating environment, such as that of Theatre 5, the meeting with Ursula von der Leyen for the presentation of the PNRR, which you remembered, Mr President, is totally changing the Europe that we knew only a few years ago, as President Monti also recalled. It makes us reflect that precisely in that study of Cinecittà Federico Fellini, in an extraordinary clip of his interview, he said: I give you only three minutes of populism. Well, after the three years of populism in this country, Italy can return to being a leader at the international level and the point of reference also because, next to the end of the Merkel experience, there is a complicated French situation and an electoral battle in France made very difficult, as we have also seen in the local elections just held. In this scenario, there is America's bullying return - Diplomacy is back - as President Biden said a few days ago, after the G7 in Cornwall - and Italy, which is the reference point of the G20, because this year the Presidency is up to our country and, after last year's parenthesis, we return to the summit in presence in Rome, in November. All this leads to saying that in this two-year season that separates us from the natural expiry of the mandate of 2023 we have the possibility to be, like Italy, not only who - as the President of the Council said - improves the economy with more 4.2 percent of GDP. In my opinion, as President Draghi said, the most interesting fact is that of trust, because it triggers the possibility of spending well not only the money of the Next generation EU, but also the small treasure - which is not small - of 180 billion that Italy has stopped in saving, grown since the beginning of the pandemic, which is more or less the equivalent of the Next generation EU. There are two Next generation EU. There is not only the need to intervene on the big and complicated issue of the pandemic emergency by being careful. I agree with the reference to the growth of infections also in those countries where there are many vaccinees and, Mr President, I would add that we should then understand what did not work, not because of a need to put dots on the i, but because it would simply be unbearable to find that, in the face of 127,000 deaths, in the meantime someone was lucrava and stealing on supplies. Alongside this national battle that concerns Italy, there is the role of Italy in the world and in Europe. Paradoxically, for a series of coincidences that someone might have guessed, while others had not, this is a phase in which between the G20, the co-leading of COP26, the end of the Merkel experience, the difficulties of the electoral campaign of France and Brexit Italy can play the leading role. Is it clear or not that our ability to support the Government, apart from the personal merits of the President of the Council and his team, becomes decisive in giving not Italy, but Europe the horizon it needs? This is all the more true of what has been said about the Stability Pact and the rules of the budget. It is true that it will be in 2023, but in 2022 the game is played against, at tables and in discussions. This also applies to the great African issue, which is not only that of the pandemic. It is very important for all countries to give doses and it is very important that we give 15 million, but at the moment there is an African issue that is not just the pandemic and - let me say it - not even immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it is time to say that immigration, given that this year we can also discuss it with greater internal tranquility, must be taken away from the influencers and must be taken up in the logic of politics. We are children of migrants; we are parents of migrants. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council and all of us, we have family experiences in which our children are already studying abroad. They are migrants other than those who arrive in Lampedusa, but we are children and fathers of migrants. Being against immigration is like being against sunrise or sunset. You may be against the fact that dawn is dawning tomorrow morning, but it will still rise. So the problem is how we deal with this big issue. What I want to say is that the African issue is not just the pandemic or just immigration; it is a much more serious issue at this stage and is linked to the return of Islamic extremism. Let us be careful, because no one talks about it, but our Mozambique - which I say "our" because it was one of the first countries that, even in the last legislature, we visited for a whole series of initiatives, interventions and investments, beginning with ENI - today is one of the advanced points of the restart of terrorism of Islamic extremism and we can win this battle only by allying ourselves with reformist Islam and with countries that have a vision ability not simply linked to fear, concern and debate from Twitter. That is why I think we need European protagonism. Mr President, I think that over the next two years there will be a lot to do in this Europe, which is paradoxically at risk, because the debate between the United States, on the one hand, and Russia and China, on the other, risks crushing us and not letting us touch on all the major issues of artificial intelligence, the Internet of things, technological innovation, the revival of a vision of personalized medicine and innovative health. Europe can make sense if we help our Government to do what Italy has always to do and has not always been able to do. Mr President, I am going back to where we have often left off, which is an island in our Mediterranean, the Mare Nostrum. How important it is that you choose to visit the Mediterranean as your first visit, particularly in Libya, also in order to avoid the hegemonic aims of Turkey, which we rightly contest for the issue of rights, but which we must also contest for a wrong view of geopolitics. I'm going back to a Mediterranean island. I'm going back to Ventotene. It was in Ventotene that Altiero Spinelli said that the way is not easy, nor safe; but it must be traveled and it will be. It goes through it, Mr President; Italy Viva and I hope that the whole of Parliament will be at your side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u61	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, Mr Draghi, you have been listening to Draghi for hours. He reminded the fantozzian a lot: "You are a beautiful director, a saint, an apostle!" I believe then that he will be happy to hear a somewhat different choir, with the sincerity and clarity typical of the Brothers of Italy. The themes are many; I have prepared slides to try to stay in the times and I started the chronometer. Positive economic framework: unfortunately that is not the case, Mr Draghi. In 2020 we had a GDP decrease of 8.9%; the Istat estimate for 2021 is more 4.7%. It's called bounce, you know it better than I do, and it means our economy is incredibly bad. We have a million jobs already lost and many at risk. Istat says that 45% of companies are at risk of being closed down; this means a dramatic situation. Listen to me, President Draghi. It also tells us that support work on the supply side has been done and that it is now up to us to support the demand side; but that is also not true. In 2020 we had a decrease in the turnover of our companies by 350 billion. In 2020 there was aid of 29 billion, that is 8% of this loss; by adding the aid that will be given in 2021, we are at 42.5 billion, a small percentage of the loss. It means that our businesses are at risk of being closed down. The priority remains to support businesses. National recovery and resilience plan: it is the time of truth. Now that he's gone, let's stop lying. Not you, but the one who preceded you said that billions would rain on businesses and citizens and that we would all be saved. Well, now that you've had time to read the PNRR, you know that's not the case. That money doesn't go to businesses in difficulty, it doesn't go to restaurateurs, tourism, gyms; none of it. They serve for a great green and technological breakthrough, but what will it mean in the short term? Since you had all boasted in the majority that you had read and understood the PNRR in twelve hours, you will have seen that on page 251 the Government states that, by virtue of the PNRR, we will have a worsening of the trade balance: increase of imports and reduction of exports. Why? Because we're not world champions in these two materials (technology and green) and so we're going to import. By who? Mainly from China. This is a bizarre green turn. To make the green turn we import from China, which is the country that pollutes the most in the world. In this respect, on 3 July, President Draghi, bioplastics, even those that deteriorate in water, will be banned. Since July 3, we have declared bioplastics to be non-productive, bringing our businesses to their knees. Since Sanchez said that, when you speak, people listen to you in Europe, let them hear and say that on July 3, we must not ban the production of bioplastics and that our companies will not be brought to their knees. If we want to save the planet, given that Europe contributes only 0.6% to plastics at sea and that the rest comes mainly from India and China, we put civilization duties: those who pollute are taxed when they import in Europe and so we are going to make a truly green policy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that the deaths are falling thanks to vaccines, but the numbers do not say that: the numbers say that we have the same pattern of deaths, in Italy and in Europe, as we had a year ago. So he's helping us more brother alone than the vaccines. With the sun the Covid dies: in the European Union, from 1 to 21 June we had 5,400 deaths and this year we have 9,800. So the dead have not fallen, but have increased. In Italy the question is the same: in 2020 the dead were 1,159 and in 2021 they are 1,070. The dead have fallen, because we go to the good season and with the arrival of the bad season we risk a new wave. We told the government a year ago, but Hope started writing the book about how we defeated the Covid and then we were overwhelmed by the second wave. [[Applause]] President Meloni handed over the proposals of Brothers of Italy to General Son on how to face the third wave. Let us hope that this document will be read this time instead of the book of Hope. I am always talking about numbers, Mr Draghi: if you listen to me, it is important. We continue to have a government that denies the official numbers of the World Health Organization, Oxford experts and the scientific community. Italy has one of the highest mortality rates in the European Union and is in line with that in Brazil. The mortality rate from Covid in Italy is 0.21 percent. In Brazil, located in the southern hemisphere, where it is now winter, this rate is 0.23 percent. We have already talked about this and I know you said that your experts say that these numbers are not correct, but they are those of the World Health Organization and Oxford. If the government has different numbers, why doesn't it provide them? We cannot accept the government saying that it is not, but the numbers are not given. I've already used six minutes and thirty-six seconds, so I'm focusing on immigration. This is the trend of immigration: we had 2,300 illegal landings in 2019 and now we are at 19,320 in the same period. The immigration emergency, however, does not affect the whole of Europe, because the numbers say that out of a total of 35,347 landings, 19,320 are in Italy. So 55% is because of us, and most of the rest is because of Spain. This is how it works in Spain: when socialists rule they land, when they rule the right they do not and the same happens in Italy. In Italy they land only because the immigrant left commands in Italy from 2011 to today: this is the only reason why they land in Italy. [[Applause]] I call on colleagues to print out the map of the European Union, because it can help when it comes to immigration. To say that Italy has a geographical situation exposed to immigration, it means never having opened a map. All the countries of Eastern Europe have more exposed external borders than ours, because it is easier to cross the border illegally from Ukraine to Poland, than not to cross the Mediterranean: it doesn't really take a genius to understand it. Even by sea it is easier to get to Malta, Spain, Cyprus or Bulgaria than in Italy. Why do they land in Italy? Because it governs the immigrant left! [[Applause]] So Brothers of Italy, in order to control immigration, asks to do what Europe asks. This is the most pro-European government in Italy's history and Europe is asking itself to control the external borders, banally, as everyone else does. There is great controversy because the bad men of Brothers of Italy ask for the naval blockade and the sinking of the illegal ships. Do you know that this is what the European Union is asking for? No, why don't you study. The Unity of 28 January 2017 publishes a beautiful photo of the Mogherini: European Union. Naval blockade in Libya against the deaths at sea. This is the solution requested by the European Commission in 2017. If any of you had read Article 1 of the Sophia mission, you would know that the mission consists in the military management of the crisis, which helps to dismantle the business model of traffic networks and trafficking in human beings in the Southern Central Mediterranean, through systematic measures to identify, stop and put out used boats and means. That's what the article says. Does it look a little like sinking the hullers' ships? Yes, and Europe is asking for it. What, on the other hand, does the majority resolution call for? And here we are at the scandal! You want to legalize the illegal activity of NGOs. In paragraph 21 of the majority resolution it says: "In order to ensure a controlled and legal management of departures... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u64	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is a very new time for us to live and, above all, for those we are called upon to build. Times that lead us, with an equally renewed sensitivity, to measure ourselves with a different approach on issues, commitments, perspectives and priorities. This month of June, especially for our country, is a significant month, which fills us with pride, as you, President Draghi, pointed out, also in these hours. If, on the one hand, day after day, we are comforted by the monitoring data of the pandemic, which finally return a curve of the contagions that thins, thanks above all to the increasingly full-bodied dam of vaccines, on the other hand, from the international point of view are many signs of a real awakening of multilateralism: with the return of democratic leadership to the White House, America is back, but, at the same time, also with Europe that returns to interpret a significant internal and external protagonism. In this sense, the issues on the table at the next European Council are to be seen as a strong incentive to continue to strengthen the Union's political path. There is no doubt that the pandemic from Covid-19 revealed the fragility of euroscepticism, bringing to light the sun, yes the weaknesses, but, at the same time, the sense of common destiny that belongs to us, as Europe and as Europeans. As you said, today it is good to finally discover us all Europeans. Here, then, the issue of vaccination becomes a central element, not only in the strategy of countering the Covid-19, but also an expression of the political direction that the Union intends to pursue and decline; a direction that we read well in our commitment to the development and production of fair and universal access to anti-Covid-19 vaccines, not only in Europe, but also in the countries of the South of the world, the weakest. The common destiny, which places not only Europe but the whole of humanity in front of the Covid-19, must make clear, even more clearly, that bond of human solidarity that the pandemic has definitely helped to reawaken, that solidarity that has had the appropriate opportunity to decline in the European Union, also in terms of generational and economic aspects, through the Next generation EU and our PNRR in particular. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in this respect, the European Commission's full promotion of the Italian Plan, which recognises that our country has dealt with specific recommendations and with the objectives of climate and digital transition, is a great success and a great start for our country and we must rightly remain proud of this. Let me therefore renew my satisfaction in this House with the work that the Government has done in recent months and to which Parliament has sincerely wished to contribute in terms of comments and proposals, because we have all read very clearly the importance and value of the instrument made available by the European Union. An epochal turning point, at which Italy has worked a lot. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also fully agree with the extent of your speech last Monday, regarding the need to commit the next few years to the total absorption of the gender and generational gap that weighs on the whole of our country. In the same way, I fully agree with his suggestion that the PNRR instrument should be given the primary role of restoring a healthy equity in our country, because the gap in opportunities, guarantees and rights between the different territories makes Italy less competitive and less ready for the processes of new development that the Plan itself provides and indicates to us, a lack of uniformity of rights that unfortunately, in most cases, finds - alas - a well-defined geographical definition, since in the Mezzogiorno, not only insists with greater impact, but unfortunately we go to add to further imbalances, inequalities and atavical delays that the pandemic has made even more dramatic. There is evidence of this in the Build back better process, of which the PNRR is an expression and which in many respects cannot be extended to the Mezzogiorno, since we cannot reconstruct what has always been lacking. This situation, in fact, makes it even more urgent to introduce services and infrastructure and to recognise universal rights that are not yet present and are actually unattainable to the citizens of the South. From this point of view, Mr President, the success or failure of the PNRR will not have any alibi, it will not need any particular committees and ex post evaluations, since it will be plastically judged by how we would have been able to improve the lives of every single citizen, especially in the most fragile territories and for the citizens of the future. Again, by taking up the agenda of the next European Council, on the migration issue, the Union needs to continue its fight against the old ghost of individualism, which has often disguised itself as an unbearable nationalist sovereignism, and seek a political solution, not only with regard to sharing in the management of arrivals, but also in search of an instrument capable of establishing in a stable manner authoritative tables with the States actors of migration movements, a commitment that requires an activity that primarily involves our European partners, because it is profoundly wrong and unsustainable an approach so to speak cherry-picking of participation in the European Union. There are burdens and honors that must be settled, and this must be made clear to everyone, even to those who like Turkey continue to listen as a human rights merchant. On the contrary, from this point of view I would add that the first element to intervene on, Mr Draghi, without discounts, is to make the Dublin Rules recognised as being passed: this is essential, otherwise the excellent work done by Mr Lamorgese may not be enough. With regard to Libya, it is certainly important and fundamental the political and diplomatic role that Italy has recovered in favour of the stabilisation process in order to be able to put it back in place as soon as possible, but a fundamental economic exchange system must be relaunched in order to contribute to normalize a territory torn apart by the conflict and the presence of foreign militias that strongly affect the life of that country. However, the commitment for the Union to put in place a new institutional framework which goes beyond the current methods which slow down the effectiveness of the action of the Commission and Parliament and which are well-placed and an opportunity for approach precisely at the next meeting of the Conference on the future of Europe, which we must make pragmatic and productive. This approach, I believe, must also include budgetary aspects, with the forecast of own resources and a fiscal union, as well as a different approach to the rules of the Stability Pact, in order to best accompany the European countries towards the horizon of a stable and lasting recovery. A recovery that we cannot just anchor to the conversion to green and digital, but that calls us to a necessary further moment of reflection on the structural weakness of Europe in the field of research, health and the supply of goods and raw materials, which the pandemic has highlighted. In order to make sense of this European spring, we must also start building a new industrial strategy for Europe. In fact, we are on the eve of a process of rethinking the policies of globalisation and the recent G7 summit in Cornwall is also an expression of a new definition, of a new order of international relations, which will lead to a greater protagonism of the European Union and the United States of America, both on the internal front and in relations with third countries. I shall conclude, Mr President. One of the many lessons that the pandemic has given us is that we can no longer afford to depend on third countries, China in the first place, for the supply of materials of any kind. [[The microphone automatically switches off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u67	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for the punctuality of your communications and also for the ability of synthesis with which you have formulated them, the same that I will try to use in the few minutes that I have allowed myself to make some comments in response to your report, but also to your reply, as well as to the debate that I have listened to very carefully. Firstly, the European Council will discuss decisive issues for Europe in the coming years, coming out of this crisis; it also takes place downstream of a series of international events, which we have also discussed here and which you yourself, Mr President, have been one of the protagonists. I think, precisely, at the G7 and NATO summit, in which a very important message emerged, namely that the link between Europe and the United States, which is of course an economic link and on the ground of technological and military cooperation, is also a historical and even sentimental link and today we can update and strengthen because of the fact that we are measuring ourselves with a new US administration and with the end - fortunately, I add - of the Trump Presidency's season. However, Mr President, there is a task for what was once called the Western democracies: to prove, in this season of history, that the so-called model of liberal democracy is still what works. In fact, the systems that we call non-democratic are somehow trying to prove the opposite and the burden of proof falls on us exactly. Of course, we must be very firm towards these systems in calling for full respect for human and civil rights, the same rights that we also need to advance in our democracies, for example, by promoting laws of civilizations such as those against hate crimes, in the sign of respect for Parliament's autonomy and the secularity of the State (and it was right to stress that). But this is not enough. In fact, if we want to show that liberal democracies are still the ones that work, it is not enough to have a final declaration at an international summit. We need, Mr Draghi, what you yourself have also mentioned in your replies, as well as in your report, which is a change of pace with regard to the mechanisms for the operation of these systems. The argument that liberal democracies do not work runs the risk of being taken first of all between our peoples and we must react to this, but by responding to political facts, which also, and above all, have consequences on the ground of the material conditions of people. We have talked about this: we cannot imagine coming out of this crisis by reconstructing the terms of a debate and the establishment of that Stability and Growth Pact as we have known it. But, as you yourself said, there is a shared conviction at European level, but there will also be a strong political battle to be waged. On growth, the figures quoted (4,2 percent this year and 4,4% for the next year of growth in gross domestic product) must make us rejoice. However, President Draghi, it is also important to look into the black box of this growth: there are data that speak of a growth that risks being from the feet of clay if it is towed, for example, from poor work, from precarious work, from underpaid work. Fixed time has grown again, just as the involuntary part time has grown again: those forms that feed, for example, further discrimination between men and women in the labour market. I think that this debate must be held at European level, but also at national level. For example, we need to address the issue of legal minimum wage within the framework of bargaining. We must also talk about what has become that chain of procurement and subcontracting in which the principle of responsibility is then lost sight: who does what and who is responsible for the serious facts that occur in that mechanism. The second issue is immigration. It is welcome that Dublin should be overcome, that we should reason in terms of the demand for co-responsibility of European countries and put the Africa chapter back at the centre of the world agenda without that unbearable rhetoric - which you, Mr Draghi, of course, have been careful to use - that is to say, let us help them at home, but as a principle of Europe's proactive work in building conditions of redemption and growth on that continent. But we must also tell ourselves that there is illegal immigration in this country because there are laws that have defined it as such; in fact, there are no possibility of legal entry into our country. This discussion will have to be done sooner or later. On the pandemic I address a prayer, obviously secular: President Dragons, banks - because only you can do so - the media and verbal incontinence of those who, even within this majority, try to put a political hat on every loosening of security measures. If today we can look with some element of hope at the prospect before us, it is because there has been someone within this majority and in the Government who has taken stock of the principle of protecting public health, and we must recognize that. We must stand on that ground, continue and tell ourselves that the graduality with which we emerge from an emergency condition must be the figure of the governmental and parliamentary initiative of the coming months. I'm gonna finish. There is a great chapter that has been discussed and it is that of vaccines and therefore also of the systems of intellectual protection of patents around the mechanism of vaccines. I am a supporter of the suspension of patents and you told us today that the European Commission has indicated a kind of third route, which has defined the compulsory allocation of licences. I have no reason to think that this route is not more or less effective than the first, namely the suspension of patents, but I know that it is a goal to be achieved as quickly as possible, because from this pandemic we come out if we cover the entire world population very quickly with vaccines. Do Europe and the world have this awareness or not? I think that this awareness must be given, and I hope, Mr President, that at least in part of these remarks you will be able to bring them authoritatively to the European Council. Thank you and I wish you well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u70	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the next European Council comes after two major international events, such as the G7 and NATO summits, which have highlighted a significant communion of intent between the main global partners, although with some distinctions within Europe; accents and sensitivities which also concern issues on the Council's agenda and which therefore need a pragmatic, conscious, non-rhetorical approach on our part, in line with what you have done during these first months of the Commission's life. Among these issues it is clear that the economic dossier and the migrant dossier have a particular importance, although personally considering fundamental for the necessary international protection of our country, especially on the Mediterranean side, the increasingly important Turkish issue and the theme of relations with Russia. European countries, despite some non-secondary errors, are proceeding towards vaccination of large sections of the population. It is necessary to continue along this path, to ensure vast and increasing supplies of vaccines to the States, not only those of Europe, but starting with those of neighbouring countries, and to prepare Community action for the future, in order to deal with the emergence of recrudescences, if necessary. Above all, however, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we believe that the borders must be definitively reopened and that, even in the autumn, we will have to learn to live with a virus that will become endemic. If, on the economic front, we record the first positive results with the approval of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, and despite the demands of an institution dear to you as the European Central Bank (ECB), which underlines the need for the economy to be supported by adequate monetary and fiscal stimuli, we can see the risks of a rigorist regurgitation, austerity policies outside the time and history to which certain member countries and some internal realities look with sympathy. It is perhaps a debate that has escaped from many, but certainly not from you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, also because some of your theorists, such as the former German minister Wolfgang Schäuble, today President of the Bundestag, call it into question, while they support, first from the columns of Il Sole 24 Ore and more recently from those of the Financial Times, the need to restore strict fiscal discipline as soon as possible. These are the words that couple with the uncontested statements by Commissioner Dombrovskis, who spoke a few weeks ago about the restoration of the Stability Pact in 2023. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have said that we have time and have spent words of optimism and we certainly cannot and must not give you suggestions and advice on this matter; but I believe that all of us, the whole of Parliament, must be well aware that within Europe the battle against rigour is not over and that it depends on our future and the areas of freedom, sovereignty and democratic agility of our country, as well as the destinies of the European Union itself, which increasingly needs a great reform, a new constituent season that puts an end to totems and fetishes that have brought it to unprepared challenges that have been epochal. We ask you for a strong commitment to this, aware that your authority can be an added value, a force to prevent a dangerous return to the past in the near future. While we must avoid dangerous runaways backwards, we have the need, by now really unavoidable, to move forward on the migrant dossier. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in no uncertain terms, but with responsibility and without dogmatism we say that the proposals contained in the new European Pact for Immigration and Asylum are in no way satisfactory for Italy. The overall system does not address the problem that we pose as a country. There is no effective mechanism for the solidarity and distribution of migrants, which requires a European reception system leading to automatic relocation between all EU countries. [[Applause]] A mandatory mechanism providing for sanctions. The European dimension of borders is the right perspective, as is the idea of developing Community agreements with North Africa, being supported in this also by the German interest in seeing the resources given in Ankara renewed. To which I would add the suggestion of extending to the MED area the same funds as European projects for a real shared development partnership. But I ask myself, and I ask you, what will we do if the interpretation in the Council is more like'mare nostrum' than a solidarity mechanism? The Mediterranean choice, which must be the choice before Europe and Italy, necessary for those who today want to play a non-negligible role in the new political and economic configuration of the international scenario, also puts us before the theme of relations in this strategic area, in which the Russian and Turkish presence are no longer secondary. Moreover, such a European position - and those who bear it - can produce, as we hope, a privileged agreement with the American ally, rightly distracted by the epochal confrontation with Beijing, whose invitations to participate in the Silk Road should not interest us because in sharp conflict with our Atlantic location. That is why I believe that the Council, as the United States tries to do, must make an effort towards Russia and avoid handing it over, if possible, permanently to the arms of Beijing, which represents the real challenge of the whole West and Europe. This does not mean maintaining an attitude of indifference and passivity with respect to fundamental issues, but it means addressing the issue of a partnership between Russia and the European Union, for example, explaining that NATO remains and will remain a strategic alliance for European realities, it also means that it is unthinkable to support the Belarusian regime, which stifles the pro-Western dissident, which calls for freedom and democracy. [[Applause]] Well, if the Union wants to engage in this dialogue, which I consider to be positive, it is also necessary to combat the Russian attacks on the interests of the European Union, it is necessary for the Union to become more robust and resilient, as Borrell said, less divided, less opportunist and less influential. We understand well the pre-eminent interest of the Central European realities to keep closed the tap of the Balkan route financing Ankara, but Turkey, its aims in the Mediterranean, are a topic that must be addressed, especially because the Turkish aggression makes the pair with their strategic difficulty in the Middle East region, as evidenced by recent events and the same swinging relations with partners such as Russia, the USA itself, especially after the recent war between Hamas and Israel. If Erdogan thinks that Turkey has done more than enough to allow Brussels to start a positive agenda with Ankara, we think that something more needs to be done, especially on regional issues - I am thinking of Libya - and I add on the human rights front. [[Applause]] Mr President, we know that our fears and hopes at European and international level are widely shared by you and we know that despite some slipping sectors of the majority, Italy's international position is clear and firm. [[Applause]] That is why we are voting in favour of the majority motion, wishing it that amount of luck which, as always, is necessary for the success of any negotiations, especially those which are more complex and difficult, such as those to which it must give life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u73	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of Resolution No 2, which bears the signature of Senators Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco and others, especially by focusing attention on two important aspects of it. The first is in point 1, which points out that the commitment to the Government is not only aimed at strengthening the European strategy on vaccines by ensuring a universal distribution, but also at strengthening research in order to find an appropriate cure. For us it is essential that research also focuses on care and that it produces and develops drugs, possibly over the counter, for Covid. Whether it's more or less convenient for the famous Big Pharma interests us a little less, but we certainly can't think of becoming a bite slave once a year or every six months, as it seems, for the rest of our lives. In the same way, we cannot think that the green pass, today a useful tool for relaunching tourism and our economy, can become in the future a definitive instrument, a system, perhaps in the hands of a therapeutic statism or a not distant technoscience ascended to a new divinity. [[Applause]] President Draghi, assure us that the League will always be at the forefront in the defence of constitutional freedoms. [[Applause]] This is also because science is a method of knowledge and not of government. [[Applause]] President Draghi, you have stated on more than one occasion that as long as the pandemic rages, the virus may undergo dangerous mutations that may undermine even the most successful vaccination campaign. This is a potential danger that you rightly mentioned during your speech. It is precisely for this reason that the element contained in the motion for a resolution (of which several colleagues have spoken and, for my Group, Senator Bagnai) on the strengthening of home care, which is not only given by the forecast of EUR 8 billion in the PNRR on territorial assistance, of which 4 for home care (these are investments), or telemedicine. It is important that targeted protocols are created at European level for early treatment and that the unjustified watchful expectation is abandoned. [[Applause]] This is the element that we want to emphasize several times, precisely by taking advantage of those doctors who have gained experience on the field, treating the sick and administering drugs that, used quickly (maybe before the outcome of the buffer), have allowed the achievement of important results, avoiding hospitalization. In Europe we also keep in mind the studies published in magazines that are part of "The Lancet" according to which a simple algorithm for the home treatment of patients with Covid can prevent hospitalization (i.e. a study published by the Mario Negri Institute). I would say giving voice and space to those who have studied and do research in this direction. They are also important, as you, Mr Draghi, rightly said, the ability - this is the real issue - to recover the tracking (as the Undersecretary Sileri, who is present in this Chamber, has said on more than one occasion); the immediate sterilization of the outbreaks, as you well mentioned; the strengthening of controls on the people who come from the countries at risk. We have seen that these controls are being carried out in European countries and we have sometimes noticed that we are not effective and effective everywhere. Therefore, these controls should be strengthened. It is also necessary to encourage the purchase of air purification devices for indoors, starting from schools, for which there has already been an investment of 200 million euros promoted by undersecretary Rossano Sasso, belonging to our Group. These are the issues that need to be discussed in Europe, on which we must find real coordination. I shall end by turning to the other point which is crucial to us, namely immigration. Nobody has highlighted this, but there is something new compared to the past: at last in the European Council, in addition to talking about immigration - already news - we will not only talk about relocations or compulsory redistribution, which has been a point that has seen Europe fail in the last ten years, which has been talked about for so long, but finally we will talk about European funding through an increase in programmes and cooperation projects to defuse - this is the right term to use - the migratory flows at the root. [[Applause]] This is the real novelty that no one wanted to talk about. When you speak of supporting the need to increase and structure the European Union's contribution, your words make us very hopeful. Of course the road can be that, because bringing investment, civilization, education and development, rather than supposed peace missions, can really help the central belt of the African continent, which is the origin of the important migratory flows and also contribute to the stabilisation of Libya, as you said. To encourage departures, Mr President: that is really the issue. I say this to the whole Assembly, also to Senator Renzi, who rightly said that on this issue of immigration we can now speak more quietly than in the past, but we can do so also because there are two leaders, at world level, the First Danish Minister and the Vice President of the United States, who invited - one through a law (the Danish Minister) and the other through very important statements - the aspiring migrants to stay in their homeland. This is a real world turn of the left. [[Applause]] Finally, therefore, we will be able to address this issue pragmatically and no longer with the ideology that characterized us before, with the awareness that time, as always, gives reason to the just. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u76	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished President Draghi, kind senators and senators, Italy comes to this European Council with the historic news of the approval of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan by the Commission von der Leyen. It is therefore officially open the way of the first tranche of financing of the Next generation EU, 25 billion euros that will arrive within a few weeks and will be financed through the issuance of common European debt, the famous Eurobonds of which the Movimento 5 Stars speaks for more than ten years [[Applause]] and that last week they had their debut in the financial markets, with an auction of 20 billion, securities that literally went to steal. In these cases, the reflection arises spontaneously, President Draghi: we only think if this step that the Movimento 5 Stars asked for from more than ten we had accomplished ten years ago. [[Applause]] Maybe we'd all be here today, but we'd all be a little bit better. However, it is certainly the culmination of a path that started just over a year ago, when the only financial instrument - which is also to be smiled - that was on the table of Europe was the ESM. [[Applause]] It has been just over twelve months, but it seems decades because of the greatness of the innovative scope of this radical paradigm shift. It was not only a change of means, but also a change of purpose because the Next generation EU is a fundamental tool not only for economic recovery, as you rightly pointed out at the beginning of your speech, but also for the ecological and digital transition of our economy. Unfortunately, we record that there are still doubts and cultural reservations about the term "ecological transition." It is an expression that continues to remain apparently empty, abstract and, at times, abstruse. Yet the Movimento 5 Stars has demonstrated in these two years how behind this word there is work and there are enterprises; it has demonstrated that behind this word there is the superbonus of 110 percent. [[Applause]] Behind this word there is the Regenerate Italy, a measure for the redevelopment of public buildings; behind this word there is the Proteggi Italia, in contrast to the hydrogeological risk of the Italian territory; behind this word there is the bill "save the sea," which waits only a push of courage from all of you so that you can finally see the sea a good protected by the Italian Republic. [[Applause]] Behind this word there is also that small great revolution - I am looking at President Girotto - of our energy communities. [[Applause]] Our municipalities are slowly entering this little big revolution. President, a few days ago, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and the European Union's Common Security Policy, Josep Borrell, explained how this result that we are celebrating today was not at all obvious. It has been achieved - and I quote what he said - thanks to the combative attitude and the determination shown by Prime Ministers Giuseppe Conte and Pedro Sanchez, thanks to the arguments solidly put forward by Italy and Spain. Borrell has practically said that all of us, that the whole country should recognize gratitude, without incense anyone because there are no supermen, to Giuseppe Conte for the crucial role he played for the birth of this extraordinary European economic instrument. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, it is only the beginning of a long battle that the 5 Star Movement by Giuseppe Conte will carry on to continue to radically reform Europe, to finally close the era of austerity, to finally achieve the radical revision of the Stability Pact, to finally prepare a European budget powered by own resources that do not weigh on national budgets, starting from the taxation of multinationals and the giants of the digital economy. We must remain on the side of the weakest. I am leaving out the forthcoming battles for the adoption of new European rules to combat wage and tax dumping in Europe, for the introduction of the European minimum wage. [[Applause]] and the fight against European tax havens. We will never be able to talk about Europe seriously if we do not break down European tax havens. [[Applause]] Mr President, you in the Council will then have the opportunity to discuss the enormous international effort to ensure universal and equitable access to anti-Covid vaccines, and thus also to the benefit of the poor countries, also in order to avoid the proliferation of those dangerous variations (I see here undersecretary Sileri), which, as the case of the United Kingdom shows, even endanger the vaccination coverage of the rich countries. We are all connected, rich and poor, in front of this emergency and on this the Movimento 5 Stars is in the front line. And that is why, in the commitments of the majority motion for a resolution that we are about to approve, we ask that our Government also be, that the Italian Government is also, working at all the locations so that we can arrive at a temporary suspension of patents and all other intellectual property rights. We have to, if we're all gonna save ourselves. [[Applause]] On the Presidency's agenda, at the request of the Italian Government (as you have rightly reminded us), the thorny issue of immigration has also been included, which still ignites the sovereignist right (we have seen it now); an issue that Italy, since the first Count Government, has put in a significant way to the attention of Europe. You will all remember what happened in June 2018, when Conte vetoed the conclusions of the European Council in Italy and managed to bring the whole of the European Union to take that first step towards a united and shared approach. Today we are not faced with the state of emergency of those days; however, we cannot deny that this is a phenomenon that Italy struggles to manage fully and fully, because Italy has been left alone, Mr President. The numbers would be perfectly manageable for a Union of 27 countries with half a billion inhabitants, if that principle of solidarity and shared responsibility prevailed only in Europe, through the introduction of an automatic and compulsory redistribution mechanism for all migrants. I could move on, but I see time is running out. Mr President, the positions of the 5 Star Movement, on these and other important issues that will be discussed at the European Council, are fully reflected in the commitments to the Government contained in the motion for a majority resolution, which we will therefore support with our strong vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u78	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u79	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, the choice to bet on Cinecittà to present the PNRR was fantastic. This plan is a fiction worthy of Cinecittà: the rain of money is a special effect, the recovery and resilience are the script that enchants, moves, makes hope, at least until the credits, when then scrolls the writing: The facts and characters of this film are the result of pure fantasy. Then we have to deal with reality, which is one: Italy will be a commissioner and you are the perfect commissioner. Other than Vatican interference, here we are at the sale of Italy and Italians in favor of finance and multinational companies. For example, in the PNRR, on page 57, repealed (previously only a proposal to repeal) the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws referring to the executive formula. In short, you are condemning thousands of families to leave the house before the real estate auction; a mortgage becomes a condemnation of desperation. The legislature began by giving back dignity to the many Brahmins of Italy. Today you are taking it away from him, making the situation worse and conning Parliament. Here is your social dimension: you are screwed to the most cannibalistic financial practices. That's where Federico Caffè would have nailed you to the definition of hooded finance. You're kicking families and small businessmen out of the house, guilty of failing to cope with a mortgage in the middle of the Covid emergency. They're vaccinated, but you make them die of despair. Dragons' gaze on society is diabolical. Your new humanism is the same that Al Pacino spoke of in the movie "The Devil's Lawyer." You fill your mouth to convert to electric, but it's just a big binge. Is the green money coming? Yay! Then finally the bills will be drastically cut, because the system charges will be completely at your expense and you will no longer have excuses. For the job? Finally you will lower taxes, not that riders can be exploited under the law, while here a waiter worker costs almost twice as much as multinationals. Will you pay the debts of the public administration, President Draghi, with Europe's money, or at least will you buy, once and for all, with creditors? Or will it be the usual round game, always for the benefit of the public administration, with the Revenue Agency in the part of the Sheriff of Nottingham? Maybe you've dropped too much into the Harry Potter part and the money appears and disappears by magic: Benetton yes and small businessmen do not. Since June 16, a piece of Italy has been waiting for your money. After "Totòtruffa" we return to the packages of Nanni Loy. This time, however, the direction is his. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u81	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u82	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the answers you have given me, for which I am grateful, do not persuade you. In economic matters, he thinks I always see the glass half empty. But the point isn't that, but I don't want that glass to always drink the same. [[Applause]] I asked you for a specific intervention, namely to extend the blockage of redundancies, but you did not give any answer to this and you rebuffed the subject. Similarly, with regard to pandemics and vaccines, I have asked you for specific questions, namely to work towards the dissemination of raw, broken down, unprocessed data and that, for example, data on new infecteds and new deceaseds should be given what percentage of them had already received the vaccine. It is an easy data to get and relevant to make evaluations. He didn't say anything about that again. I have also asked you to adopt protocols for territorial care that are not simply tachypyrin and vigilant waiting and to recognise that vaccination against children is not only not a priority, as you said, but is a mistake. [[Applause]] , because minors are not at risk of serious consequences from Covid, but may have short-term negative effects - rare, but there are - as well as medium or long-term, since studies have not been completed. Finally, as regards the vaccination pass, please go to Europe to say that the discrimination that will be introduced with this pass will be reduced, for example by making the swabs and antigen tests free, so that even those who do not vaccinate, because it is not mandatory, can move safely, without running the risk of infecting anyone. We have proposed an amendment for the gratuitousness of these tests, but it has been rejected by its majority. For these reasons, we have tabled motion for a resolution No 1, which we will vote in favour of, while rejecting all the others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u83	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Stefano, Garavini, Laforgia and Casini. (The vote was followed). I shall cancel the vote because there has been a problem. I refer again to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Stefano, Garavini, Laforgia and Casini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u84	The Conference of Leaders shall be convened immediately at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-340.ana.u86	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 24 June, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.22 p.m.
