ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law No 2169, already approved by the House of Deputies, and documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the joint general discussion and the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government took place. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting Articles 1 to 20 were approved. Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 9.53 p.m.) The session is resumed. Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u5	Mr President, I call for Amendment 20.0.101 to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u6	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u7	Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.0.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u10	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am delighted that this House is filling up and I would ask all Members present to pay attention to the substance of this amendment. In fact, I believe that this House has a duty to speak with good reason by entering into the substance of the matter in order to resolve a problem that has been dragging on for years and not continuing to postpone it indefinitely. [[Brusio in the Chamber.]] I would also ask for some silence from my fellow Members, since I believe that this House should pay attention to certain issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u11	Senator, I understand that this amendment is particularly relevant to you, as it is to us. I therefore believe that Senator Giammanco's invitation can be accepted. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 20.0.101 simply aims to unlock the resources allocated to the installation of video surveillance in nursery schools and facilities for the elderly and the disabled. The appropriation has been inserted black on white in the decree-law 18 April 2019, n. 32, so-called unblock yards. The amendment therefore has full coverage. It therefore seems paradoxical to me that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEF) did not readily give an opinion in favour of the text because for two years the figure of 160 million has been allocated to this purpose and is still waiting to be used. Among other things, the other ministries involved in the possible implementation of the amendment, before the Budget Commission blocked it, had expressed their opposition. In the meantime the text of the amendment has also been perfected, by implementing the reformulation suggested by the Ministry of Justice which has made the text respectful of 100% of the protection of the privacy and the Workers' Statute and in accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality. Despite this, in the 14th Commission we have been waiting for weeks for the technical report on the amendment by the MEF, which has never arrived, until the Budget Commission has allocated Article 81 to the text. This has happened despite - I repeat - the measure has had the full financial cover allocated by law in 2019, therefore for two years. It should also be added that in support of the feasibility of the amendment I tabled there is also a technical report from the MEF on 27 April, which I have with me and which I invite all my colleagues to read. This report estimates that the costs of the plants and the number of the structures are perfectly in line with what decided by the unblock yards in 2019. So, of course, everything is in line with what we are asking for in the amendment. The technical report attests and confirms that the resources allocated are not only sufficient, but in excess of their purpose. There is also a subsequent MEF note of 25 August last, two months ago, confirming that the funds are there and are available; between 2019 and 2020 there are residues of 40 million, which if they do not commit within two years, will be lost. The real risk is therefore not to be able to use sums already in the budget, resulting in the formation of residues, with the certainty of losing the resources allocated from here in the near future. In the light of all this, ladies and gentlemen, there sincerely arises the doubt that there is no real will on the part of all of us to use the amount allocated in 2019. Mr President, I therefore ask that Amendment 20.0.101 be put to the vote despite the contrary opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government because I trust in the sensitivity of my colleagues and in the will of this House to give a signal of attention to the most vulnerable people in society: very small children, the elderly and the disabled. I call for a signal of closeness from my fellow Members to the many families that have been waiting for years for Parliament to strike a blow, showing that it is also interested in those who have no voice and cannot vote because perhaps it is stuck in the bed of a nursing home. [[Applause]] The resources I'm talking about were allocated in 2019 by the yellow-green government and Matteo Salvini, then Minister of the Interior. In order to ensure that nothing was done, I also looked at how the Assembly had voted on the amendment to the decree unblocking yards of 2019, which established the fund necessary to finance the video surveillance facilities in the structures they wanted to provide. This is the vote No 298, Act 1248; although, out of 250 votes cast, 241 voted in favour of that amendment. [[Applause]] There has been an almost unanimous vote in favour of the establishment of resources for the installation of the systems I am talking about. That text also stated that, within the limits of the resources allocated, a specific regulatory measure should have been used to implement the measures provided for therein. But since then absolutely nothing; everything has been standing still for two years. Mr President, I would therefore ask all my colleagues to show that that vote was not just a formal vote with a propagandistic taste, expressed in the run-up to the European elections, but a real understanding. On the other hand, how is it possible to remain indifferent to so many dramatic stories, such as the one that happened in Agrigento, where the psychic disabled were kept in dirty rooms, among their excrements, isolated from the rest of the world, without any possibility of contacting family members and forced to fast? One of them would even be tied to the bed with a chain to prevent it from getting away. Such stories - stories of vexation, humiliation and constant mortification - I could list many of them. In Rome, in a nursing home, the elders were left without drinking, otherwise they would have peed too much; they were blocked, sedated, dragged by the hair, slapped, insulted, threatened, yelled at continuously: a hell for so many fragile and defenceless old people, whose images are really difficult to look at because they are heartbreaking. And so many kindergartens. The children, in a kindergarten in Perugia, were beaten, mistreated, forced to punish each other; events that will leave on these little indelible memories. I ask you, therefore, to vote in favour of this amendment, because there are so many such stories, an endless list. I would ask you to show that today, as in 2019, we are expressing ourselves in this House with the genuine will to give answers to citizens who do not have a voice and who still believe that politics is a mission for the collective good. [[Applause]] The reports of ill-treatment and harassment against very young children, the elderly and the helpless disabled are unfortunately daily and to look without doing anything, colleagues, means to remain indifferent to the pain of others; it means to be complicit in those who inflict those sufferings. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote by leaving aside all sorts of constraints, in order to follow up what this House had already voted in a compact way in 2019. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u15	Mr AMENDOLA, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the aims and also the passion expressed by Senator Giammanco are shared by the Government. We share them and have done a job in the Commission, I think, very useful, to unite all the parliamentary groups on video surveillance. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Cantù, who has contributed with an agenda. We have joined all the parliamentary groups on a choice that is consistent not only with the acts of previous governments, but also with what we have to do. We know very well that on the subject of video surveillance there have been talks with the Guarantor on the issues of workers' rights to privacy. It has done a very wise and united job (I repeat, because we have worked for almost a month and a half) and we have come to a sharing with all the parliamentary groups. The issue, however, is that we are discussing European law and not budgetary law. I would like to, but we are talking about a provision that, in order to have strength, even using resources that have been allocated, must include installation, maintenance, tax credits. In other words, in order to give meaning and strength to the choice we make, on which - I repeat - we are in favour, we must provide instruments, otherwise, in the absence of funds for the technical instrumentation necessary for video surveillance, the norm remains dead letter. The reflection on Article 81 of the Constitution in relation to this amendment has led us to a common reasoning: since the rule written by Senator Giammanco, Senator Cantù and senators belonging to other parliamentary groups has its own unity, let us take it to the dedicated session, which is that of the budget law, as European law does not provide funds to support this impact. The call for withdrawal is therefore also aimed at facilitating the budgetary session. In fact, if we go to a vote today and this amendment lapses, we would not only have a problem in moving to the House of Deputies, but we would also risk compromising an objective which, on the other hand, is within reach of two weeks in the budget law. I do not want to talk about the PNRR funds on digital, which could be used for tax credits. I am really saying this because we had reached an agreement in the Commission by turning the amendments into agendas, and I am also saying this for a matter of justice in relation to Senator Cantù's proposal, which had to withdraw an amendment in order to make an agenda and agree on the whole line. It would therefore be unfair to give a favourable opinion now, while we have asked another senator to withdraw her amendment. I repeat it officially: we also guarantee ourselves against the MEF and we are available to achieve a goal of justice, of protecting the most fragile groups (from children to the disabled and everything we have seen), to give security to our families. However, let us do this at the ordinary session, because unfortunately the European law, in view of the restrictions imposed by Article 81 of the Constitution, does not provide for the allocation of funds. We would be in danger of voting against a job that we will finish in a week's time. It is all here; there is no merit assessment against, but only a technical evaluation to achieve a goal that everyone in 14a Commission - and I thank the President - we have agreed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u16	On foreclosure, the subject deserves further consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u19	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say that the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this amendment. Video surveillance systems in socio-health facilities that welcome elderly people and children and in kindergartens are a necessity that cannot be further extended. It is astonishing that such an argument has not been immediately accepted. The various objections are objectively fragile and the topic of those who started talking about privacy is very fragile. We have a government that has established that privacy for Italian citizens no longer exists and the "Big Brother" is now among us in tax, health and administrative. We have established a system of control of every single citizen, but where video surveillance would serve it does not put itself; it is something that we objectively do not understand. [[Applause]] There's another matter. Undersecretary Amendola tells us that this is not the budget law; he is right, but he should explain to us why Article 1 provides funds to hire three more people at UNAR, the anti-discrimination structure, since this is not the budget law and has nothing to do with European law. We know that the UNAR is a structure with great discretion and has sometimes ended up in some scandal, because it has financed orgies in gay structures; let alone, that is not why we are scandalized, because it is among the most useful things that it has done that structure. [[Applause]] Instead, we are scandalized because it is the structure that had formally written a letter to the president of a party, Giorgia Meloni of Brothers of Italy, telling her that she had to change the messages she gave in the matter of immigration. For that structure there was no problem using European law to hire three more people, although this is not the budget law; instead video surveillance in structures where video surveillance would serve cannot be done because this is not the budget law. This is another reason for confirming Brothers of Italy's vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u22	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, on the amendment tabled by Mr Giammanco, I would like to add a few things and explain why the Movimento 5 Stars will vote against this amendment. Beyond the goodness of the end, which is not in question, we have made a precise path within the 14th The Commission has also agreed on an agreed text, which is not what my colleague has just presented in this House. Apart from this, the agreement reached in the Commission has shed light on the agendas to be accepted by the Government. So within these were inserted the fruit of a great work and of agreements reached. I repeat the will of the Movimento 5 Stars to reach the goal, but adding punctual themes. I am referring in particular to the compulsory training which operators must have within these structures. It is not the problem of losing resources, which we will not lose, because there is the commitment of the Government and it seems to me that the Undersecretary Amendola has been quite clear in this regard. We will all be called together to achieve the objective, finding the necessary resources in budget law and thus eliminating any doubt. [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars is there and is not opposed, but this is not the way to operate. I repeat that we are trying to force an agreement that has been reached in the Commission and, for this reason, the Movimento 5 Stars will vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u25	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we note the government's intervention. I would like to point out that we are aware that the agenda that will pass is more expensive than the amendment tabled, so that the deadline has been postponed until December 2022. However, I would also like to point out that Mr Giammanco's amendment has been declared admissible and is in line with EU legislation. Moreover, the implementing decrees will then be needed for the realization of what will have to be done and the initiative will therefore return in the hands of the Government. It should also be added that, compared to the agenda, the amendment contains what is essential and nothing more, so the funds are actually there. Without prejudice to the fact that Mrs Giammanco will decide whether or not to withdraw the amendment, at this point we are calling for a formal commitment from the Government to take up the issue, dealt with, supported and resolved within the budget law, just as it deserves every issue of civilization. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u28	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that if the amendment is maintained by Senator Giammanco, the League will vote in favour. In fact, never anyone like our movement fought, from the beginning, to put as much pressure on this topic as possible. [[Applause]] Senator Giammanco is actually right in saying that the resources have already been allocated for two years and that it has not yet been possible to put video surveillance in kindergartens, nursing homes and more. [[Applause]] It is clear that this remains our goal, but the Accounting Office has pointed out (and I appreciate the words of the Undersecretary) that in order to finally start the installation of these cameras we must consider that the resources for maintenance are still lacking. Moreover, if it is not made compulsory to install it (and I understand that not everyone in Parliament was in agreement with the obligation), it is necessary to encourage kindergartens and nursing homes to provide for it. Senator Cantù has proposed the introduction of a kind of tax credit and, again, we need additional resources to those allocated. Then there is a whole series of speeches also related to the training of staff, because with the insertion of video surveillance you need personal training, so it is clear that more resources are needed than those allocated. For this reason, the agreement agreed by all was to commit themselves to ensuring that these increased resources were allocated to the budget with the fund, which is already available to Members of Parliament, because this was communicated to us by the Presidency of the Council. The logic would be to include in the budget rule the resources that are lacking. We all agree and then we finally leave. If the amendment goes on, with the opposition of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, it is very likely, if not almost certain, that when there is a transition to the House it will be removed and the result will be that we will have achieved nothing. Is it better, then, to commit now to the budget law or to an amendment that passes, but that does not in fact have any effect? That's the reasoning we ask the senator to do. If, however, the senator maintains it, we will vote in favour of this amendment for consistency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u31	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, the subject we are dealing with is extremely sensitive. It is generally shared between all of us and, among other things, my own Group and I personally very much agree with the content of the amendment. However, we cannot fail to take note of two aspects that have emerged today. Senator Romeo's intervention has unmistakably clarified the contours of the affair and we run the risk of making a hole in the water. On the other hand, we have a formal commitment made by the Government. At this time we should probably all make an effort to maintain unity and support for government action. Perhaps the effort we will have to make in the budget law will be to find these extra resources, but I believe that, in the face of a commitment made in a very clear way in this House earlier, the best thing to do is to survive. After all, we are saying that we are wasting about a month and a half to have a rule that produces effects and not one that, instead, falls into thin air, as Senator Romeo well explained earlier. The invitation is to make an effort right now. It is probably also an effort of coherence because if we want to achieve the result, we must follow this path. It was certainly difficult, but finally it was the subject looking in our eyes and in our faces and deciding together that the issue is absolutely important and sensitive. We are all committed and I repeat that at this moment we should make a little effort by following for today and trying to go to the next deadline all together. If we do not actually maintain the commitment we have made today, we will all be able to table an amendment together and on that occasion we will all support it and make it pass. To my colleague Giammanco - I say this very clearly - I had given my support earlier, but after what I heard this morning, which clarified the outlines of this affair, it is very difficult to move forward objectively because we run the risk of making a hole in the water for the future for the arguments exhaustively exposed by Senator Romeo. The Italia Viva-P.S.I Group will vote against this amendment for the reasons set out above, although I repeat once again its content. In view of the situation, it is really impossible for us to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u34	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I understand the words of Senator Giammanco, because this path began in the last parliamentary term and because the House was given a joint work on the subject, trying to accept the different positions in order to arrive at a solution that could contemplate the needs and demands of all. This kind of path has begun again in the Senate in this legislature, with a bill that is still present today in the 1st Commission; Senator Giammanco herself had contributed, through her ability to mediate, to collect all the needs of the different forces and sensitivities, for example on the important issue of training and prevention. Then, once the amendment to the draft budget law was tabled, on the agenda that Senator Lorefice was talking about earlier, there could have been all these measures, a little different from the dry amendment that you are presenting today. For this reason I say that there was a sharing work, which also took into account the position of Senator Santù and the work done by the other Commissions. I can say that the work that led to the agenda is a job that we all feel proud of, because the Senate had worked well. However, I would add one thing after the words of the Government, represented by the Undersecretary Amendola: in the face of an opinion contrary to Article 81, the forces of the majority should struggle to vote against the opinion expressed by the Government, because it means saying something different from what the Government highlights. Moreover, it is not a matter of merit, but it is an important issue, which should be taken into account. So I would like the story to be told for what it is, and above all I would regret that a collective work action was forgotten, which had led instead to undoubtedly positive results. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u37	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to make it clear to all my colleagues in this House that I absolutely do not want to make it a test of strength. Anyone who knows me knows how to move. For years, however, mediation and a meeting point have been called for. Senator Malpezzi said well: since the last legislature we have worked on it and nothing has ever happened, this meeting point has never been found, although I always wanted to find it. I therefore request that the amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u38	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.0.101, tabled by Senator Giammanco and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 22, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u39	I am against Amendments Nos 22,100 and 22,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u40	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u41	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 22,100, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.101, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 24, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u42	The G24.100 agenda has already been approved in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u43	The Government is in favour of accepting it, provided that it is reworded by including in the commitment the words: • to assess the appropriateness of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u44	Does the Commission - in the person of the rapporteur or the President - agree with this rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u45	Personally, I would have preferred not to make this change, but I return to the will of Senator Nannicini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u46	I accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u47	As there are no discordant comments from the Commission - because this is not the usual way of proceeding - having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G24.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u48	I am against Amendment 26,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u49	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u50	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26,100, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 29, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u51	On Amendment 29,100, I am going back to the House, considering that two similar amendments to Articles 31 and 32 had already been adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u52	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u53	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29,100, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 29 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 30. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.0.100/1 has fallen. Amendment 30.0.100 is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 32. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 33, on which agendas have been presented which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u54	Mr President, the Government is prepared to accept the agendas, subject to rewording, adding to both the words: 'compatible with public finance constraints'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u55	Senator Stefano, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u56	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u57	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G33.100 (text 2) and G33.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 33. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 34. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 35. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 36. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 37. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 38. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 39. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 40. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 41. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 42. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 43. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 44. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 45. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 46. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 47. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 48. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u60	[[Brusio.]] Wait, Senator, I want you to intervene in absolute tranquillity. Let us get out of here who has to take care of something else, and I ask the Members who remain in this Chamber to pay attention to Senator Laura Garavini, whom I give the floor to. Garavini (IV-PSI). Dear President! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speeding up public competitions, deburring them and at the same time protecting their fiscal regularity, making it easier for professionals and associations to consult, but also promoting the recognition of professional qualifications and traineeships carried out and achieved outside the national territory: these are some of the actions with which, at parliamentary level, we have helped to improve the text of the European law in our examination. An important law, which concerns the everyday life of citizens; a law that goes hand in hand with the two relations (programmatic and consuntive) on the participation of Italy in the European Union for the year 2021. Therefore, important instruments that mark and characterize the role of Parliament in relation to the government's actions towards the European Union. These are measures with which we set out on very diverse areas: from free movement to justice, from taxation to consumer protection, from health to energy. With European law 2019-2020, today we are also going to eliminate 12 of the 82 infringement procedures currently being carried out by Italy. In fact, with the work put in place by the Government and the Undersecretary Amendola - which we thank - since the beginning of this year Italy is among the countries that are reducing the most and most quickly the infringements in place: all files that, if not resolved and uneducated, would cause a large economic increase to our country. Suffice it to say that Italy has already paid EUR 751.6 million for infringements, following six sentences imposed in the last ten years by the Court of Justice for infringement of EU law. These figures remind us of the responsibility for having to adopt this European law quickly. We welcome the fact that a number of requests have been received from us on a number of issues: for example, with the inclusion of the principle of non-discrimination between economic operators for the custody of architectural and engineering services, we wanted new professional players who are currently excluded, such as foundations, non-profit organisations and other companies, who can make an excellent contribution to the recovery. Furthermore, with an amendment also shared by other political forces, we wanted to heal a vulnus that had been created against the companies participating in the tenders, for which a cause of exclusion had been introduced which was strongly penalized in the event that there was an act of investigation not yet definitive. Raising the threshold of tax violations not definitively established to 35,000 euros - as we have foreseen - will be a concrete aid for many small and medium-sized companies, in a historical phase in which there is an urgent need to start growing again. At our request, thanks to the intervention of the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, who had already dealt with the matter during his mandate to foreign countries, there is also a long-standing question, on which as Italy Viva we have been insisting for a long time. I am referring to the problem of plates of vehicles circulating in Italy but registered abroad, in San Marino. In the amendment by the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whom I thank for transposing our proposal, we accept the free movement of the means in question without the need to have a specific note from the PRA, in cases where the owner of the vehicle registered with AIRE is present on board. The same applies to drivers who have lived in Italy for more than sixty days, who are driving vehicles registered in San Marino owned by companies registered there, of which they are employees or collaborators. For them too, it will be sufficient to have a simple documentation of the employment relationship. It is therefore a good news for the thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs operating in border areas, who will at last no longer have to fear very salty fines or even the confiscation of their corporate means just because they are registered across borders and in circulation on Italian soil. A common sense decision that we hope will soon be extended to vehicles registered by fellow citizens of AIRE in other border countries, such as Switzerland. We also welcome the acceptance by the Government of our agenda for the establishment of further seats, as well as in Venice, of the Euro-Mediterranean-Black Sea Observatory, an organisation that aims to support economic and sustainable development actions in a whole range of North African countries and aims to promote their participation in environmental policies. That is why we hope to see its establishment in the budget law. To sum up, Mr President, with today's vote we are going to touch on a wide range of issues, such as mobility and rights. The European law provides that foreigners who have been in Italy for at least six months, with a residence permit for reasons of work or research, are entitled to family allowances and benefits. The measure also provides for the possibility of hiring staff to ensure that Italy and local authorities can participate more actively in the European regulatory processes and in the implementation of Community projects on the territory. In particular, the staff units of the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs are increased, through which the European Policy Department of the Presidency of the Council will be able to elaborate the Italian position on individual specific topics during the formation of the European Union's legislative acts, linked to the most varied topics. In short, mobility, rights, simplifications: these are some of the advantages that derive from the approval of the European law, an important law through which we reduce the burdens on our country and with which, eliminating a series of zavorre that still remain, we manage to stimulate growth and development. Therefore, a measure which is not only theoretical and technical, but which deals with concrete issues with which we must confront ourselves immediately, all without blaming Europe, which has done nothing but call to respect the rules that have been given to us all together. If anything, it is a matter of credibility, shared responsibility and at the same time it is also a question of avoiding very onerous sanctions. That is why, President, I am voting in favour of the Group of Italy Viva on European law and the two reports on Italy's participation in the European Union. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u63	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, again this year Parliament takes its formal action to bring its own rules into line with European Union law. We could call it the ubi Major Law, the least cessation. This is what Europe says, and the Italian Parliament has only the task of obeying. However, we do not think so and the whole debate on the alleged superiority of the European system over the internal one is immediately coming to mind. Poland is now in the spotlight, because its Constitutional Court has dared to say that the Polish Constitution comes before the European order. Yet there was no scandal when the German Constitutional Court made the same statements, France made them, Denmark made them and other countries made them; there was no scandal in Europe, there was no scandal in Italy and there was no scandal in our media. On the contrary, there is scandal, because the same thing is said by Poland. It seems obvious to us that the Italian Constitution comes before the European order, as we have always said. There is a proposal for a constitutional reform law by Brothers of Italy, at first signed by Giorgia Meloni, to reaffirm this concept. We think this because we try to put certain concepts in line: Article 1 of our Constitution states that sovereignty belongs to the people, that it votes its representatives in the Italian Parliament, that it has legislative power and in this way it stands. On the other hand, if we say that supremacy is of the European order, because we all know that the legislative function in the European Union is mainly at the head of the European Council, and therefore of the governments, we are in fact transferring legislative power from the people and from Parliament to the governments, and this issue should not be taken for granted, but we take it for granted. Moreover, Article 11 of our Constitution states that Italy may place restrictions on its sovereignty, but it can do so on a level playing field with other states. What is the level playing field if Germany states that its Constitution is dominant over European standards and we do not? In fact, it means making the Italian order subordinate to the German one and it cannot be done. We therefore believe that the Italian Government must force the concept of the supremacy of national states over the European order, as the Group of European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) has always done with great transparency in the European Parliament of which Giorgia Meloni is President. We say that with transparency and transparency we demand that at least the rules are the same for everyone. Therefore, given that we must have the supremacy of the internal order, if others support the supremacy of the European order, at least they should have subsequent behavior. According to the European standard, a green pass cannot be introduced that discriminates between vaccinated and non-Vaccinated, yet our pro-European government introduces a green pass that makes clear and deliberate discrimination between vaccinated and non-Vaccinated. I therefore wonder how this supremacy of the European system works: does it go a little fantasy, depending on whether it is more or less good or who governs it? Moreover, a bond such as the green pass is introduced, without any scientific basis. We are pleased that in these days in the media is emerging the enormous anomaly of which Brothers of Italy has spoken from the first day in every place, including this, observing that the green pass lasts twelve months and asking how long the vaccine cover lasts. The green pass lasts 12 months, but the government is unable to tell us how long the vaccine cover lasts. This doesn't have a scientific basis, but it's something like a sorcerer's apprentice. The same applies to privacy: in Europe, it is forbidden to override the privacy of European citizens. In your decree-law "capacities" is inserted a wonderful norm for which all databases of the public administration can communicate with each other and act accordingly. Do you remember the controversy we had, for example, about the green pass, cashback or the receipt lottery? We were wondering if by chance you were making fun of us and one day you would adopt a rule whereby public databases would communicate with each other and act accordingly. It happens that this forecast is present in the decree-law "capacities," so the Revenue Agency will be able to avail itself of all public databases, including that of cashback; the European Union theoretically states that this cannot be done, yet you do. This is how it works in the European Union: the rule of law is invoked against the unwelcome Polish Government because it would violate the independence of the Polish judiciary, but then the Palamara scandal, which saw a judiciary not subject to the government, but directly to the Democratic Party's currents, is fine. [[Applause]] There is no reason for violation of the rule of law. It would also be nice to talk about the free press, since we have a system in which public television and entire private groups, from morning to evening, devote their time only to attacking the only opposition to the current Government, just as it works in Turkey, a friend of the Government. Europe is also asking us to control the external borders of the European Union, which everyone does and which Italy does not do. Since the beginning of the year more than 50,000 illegals have been illegally landed in Italy. In 2019, in the same period, with Salvini at the Ministry of the Interior, instead of the current Minister Lamorgese, it amounted to 8,400; six times less. In this regard, we place a problem with the rest of Europe, which calls on Italy to respect the Migration Pact by controlling its borders. Twelve European states signed a letter asking the Commission to be able to use European funds to build barriers to stop mass illegal immigration. We of Brothers of Italy think that the Italian Government must sign that letter, because so we could have European resources to block, for example, the departure of boats from North Africa, instead of asking the European Union for money to welcome more and more illegal immigrants. In regime propaganda it is said that sovereign states have signed the letter. These sovereign states are predominantly the European People's Party, the Merkel party, the Casini party and people who do not seem predominantly sovereignist to me. However, there are also the left-wing governments of Denmark or Bulgaria and also the Czech Republic and Estonia which are part of the same European group of Macron and Italy Viva di Renzi. When Renzi takes and talks about the villains of Visegrád, he does not know or pretends not to know that among them there is also the Czech Republic, whose governing party is of the same Parliamentary Group of Italy Viva. The majority resolution, therefore, cannot then be ours. On the other hand, we believe that Europe must claim its identity, assert its commercial strength at international level in order to impose civilization duties and force China and India, first, to respect the environment and human rights, and that Europe's task, first and foremost, is to defend its civilization made up of reason, democracy and freedom. That would be our Europe, but that is not the direction it is taking. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u66	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, in anticipating the Democratic Party's vote in favour of European law, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Stefano and Mr Candiani, for the important summary work they have done in the process of the provision to the Senate. I would also like to thank all the groups in the Commission who, in their relationship with the Government - in which there have been no lack of dialectical moments, as it is healthy that it is in a mature institutional system - have certainly been able to find a moment of sharing and final synthesis. The measure we are about to approve is broad, with 48 articles and various agendas. The first point I want to stress, as Mrs Bonino said yesterday in general debate, is that of course this is an important European law because it facilitates the closure of several infringement procedures. In September 2021 there were still 97 open infringement procedures, 62 of them for infringements of EU law and 35 for non-transposition of directives. This is not only a matter of credibility and the relationship between the Italian and European legal systems, but also a financial issue. Our country, following condemnations by the Court of Justice under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, has already paid 751 million euros for infringements; 751 million Italian taxpayers at a time when we are rightly concerned about how to spend important resources well and quickly, which come from the mutualisation of debt and from common instruments of Europe. It would be a shame if institutions were to waste money and public resources in this way. The speeches we have discussed in European law are very heterogeneous, from car traffic to cosmetics, procurement, finance, real estate agencies, video surveillance: we did not miss anything. It's a long list of micro-regulatory impacts. These are necessary measures, but let's face it, ladies and gentlemen, they risk giving an image of European Union measures and law as a summation of micro-regulatory interventions. In my explanation of vote, therefore, I would like to focus only on three articles, which go beyond the logic of summing up micro-regulation and try to introduce procedural innovations to strengthen Parliament's role in the debate on the political choices that are being made in Europe. The first is Article 40, which amends Law No 234 of 2012, in order to strengthen the role of Parliament in the process leading to the building of the Italian position in Europe. While respecting the flexibility of negotiations due to the Commission in the European Parliament, it is important for Parliament to express itself and discuss itself, including through acts of preventive direction, before there are important appointments in which Italy takes positions on European choices through the Government. Article 40 thus strengthens Parliament's role in European political choices through government action. Article 41 provides - as already provided for by the European delegation law - that there is also the possibility of a second half-yearly bill for European law. This has two advantages: the first is to shorten the time taken to respond to infringement procedures and thus avoid them, having in mind two measures in the course of a year; the second advantage is to have a more precise and precise debate on the choices of merit, because with two measures we come out in a better way from the logic of the omnibus bill, in which we must follow micro interventions with a thousand amendments. The third article on which I am referring is 43, in which the role of Parliament and the relevant Commissions in monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is expected and strengthened. After the six-monthly reports of the Government, the relevant Commissions are urged to assess, including through hearings of the actuators and project managers or surveyors in the territories, the implementation of the projects of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is important that Parliament also has a strong monitoring and inspection activity on such strategic choices for the future of our country. These three articles strengthen Parliament's role in discussions on European choices. However, the role of Parliament - ladies and gentlemen - is not only about procedural innovations: it is also about our ability to use innovations with strong political will and a strong awareness of our role. Today we have approved several agendas, one also in Article 24, the G24.100. We have accepted the rewording proposed by the Government (instead of which it commits itself to, it undertakes to evaluate the possibility of, but does not open a discussion on the formulas, but the substance does not change. There has been a unanimously approved agenda in the Commission that gives a clear commitment to the Government and now there is a clear agenda that gives a clear commitment to the Government in this House: in the reform and digitisation of company law anything can be done, but not to grant a de facto monopoly to the notary order. We can write that agenda as we wish, but - I say this as a Member of Parliament - there is a clear commitment from Parliament: in the competition law we will move from the agenda to the rules and in the latter Parliament will assess whether we respond to the commitments that Parliament itself gives to the Government, whatever the formula, or to the demands of some lobbyists. That too means enhancing Parliament's role. As I said before, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of European law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I think that the adoption of European law as well as that of a European delegation is certainly an absolutely fundamental act, because it is precisely the two instruments provided for by existing legislation in order to adjust the national law periodically to that of the European Union. I believe that European law - unfortunately, I must say - has also been the main instrument in our country to respond to infringement procedures, close open infringements and perhaps resolve the dispute in the pre-opening phase of the infringement procedure. In recent times we have worked quite well and we have spoken about the closure of many procedures, but there are still many of them, and - I regret to say - most of them are in the environmental field and concern the issue of waste and water purification. Some of these open procedures originate from regional laws and regulations and also deal very much with issues related to the violation of the so-called birds and habitats directives, therefore issues relating to the protection of biodiversity. Infringement proceedings are costs to the community and I believe that those attributable to the Regions should be borne by the Regions themselves. We are greatly improving the work of the European law on infringement procedures and also the work for European law 2019-2020 - we are always a little late - has certainly given positive signals in this regard. However, I believe that it remains a problem - as Senator Nannicini has just pointed out in his explanation of vote - that is, very often European law also becomes a sort of omnibus measure. I understand that there is often urgency, need for action and outstanding issues, but I believe - perhaps in the context of the next European law - that we should find a more accurate way of selecting the issues to be addressed. This is also because - I repeat - the legislative instruments that are transformed into an omnibus measure are never positive, to the detriment of the political issues that we have to face in European law and related to our participation in the European Union. I think that today we are at a very delicate stage and also in the process of passing through, with a strong debate within the European Union - we have heard the intervention of our colleague, Brothers of Italy - on the relationship between the sovereignty of national parliaments and the European Union and very clear and precise political positions. It is no coincidence that there is a very strong contrast between Brussels and Poland. These issues should be the subject of further discussion, as they are closely related to European law. Italy is placed in an idea of Europe that is not only given by all the national governments, but is to be understood in terms of federation and strengthening of the Union. We should go further and further in this direction, because we know perfectly well that only through the strengthening of the European Union and its legislative and regulatory capacity can we give strength and increasingly push to the needs of a continent which - we must always remember - is very small in the world. There is another issue at this delicate moment of passage. Just yesterday we heard of the distonic interventions compared to the positions that - fortunately - we are assuming within the European Union regarding one of the main missions on which Europe will be able to regain even more strength and authority at world level, namely the issue of climate change. The COP26 has opened and is in full swing in these hours and you understand well how fundamental Europe's unity is in pointing out and trying to bring home an agreement as close as possible to the objectives that Europe itself has set itself with the 55% reduction in emissions and the famous date of 2050. We are well aware of the contrasts and positions of China, India and Russia. In my opinion, in pushing on the objectives we have set ourselves, the European Union does a favour not only to the planet, but also to Italy itself. The question does not harm national interests - as I heard in some speeches yesterday - anything else. The pursuit with determination of the way of renewable energies and the reduction of emissions has a lot to do with national interests, because we always and constantly forget that the Mediterranean is at the center of climate chaos and is one of the most endangered areas of the planet. Italy is completely immersed in the Mediterranean and is therefore a very fragile country from a territorial point of view. So we can no longer be ambiguous. On this too we cannot say things and adhere to objectives and then pursue others. This concerns the question of energy transition. I hear about gas, but the problem is that you never understand how long the transition must last, as we talk about five, ten, twenty years, eternity. See that this is not the path that favours national interest. I'm talking not about Europe or the planet, but about our country's interest. Even the whole energy crisis we had would have gone differently. I very much welcome the inclusion of the rules that strengthen Parliament's role. I refer in particular to Article 43 concerning the six-monthly report on the state of implementation of the PNRR and Articles 40 and 41 - mentioned earlier by Senator Nannicini - because this is the way to stay in Europe: to strengthen Parliaments, the interaction and the ability to give clear indications. I will close by saying that we will vote in favour of the European law for 2019 and 2020. There are very important and interesting elements in the work of the Commission and the House. I believe that some of us could have devoted them to other measures, but others are absolutely fundamental, and I think - for example - of Articles 33 and 31. Some of the amendments adopted on animal research and protection are acceptable to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u72	Masini (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, many long months have involved the 14th Commission in the discussion and approval of European law. European law is a wide measure: it is a measure both for the many areas it deals with, both because of the complexity that characterizes it, but it is also that measure that makes clear to us regarding Italy's participation in the training and implementation of the legislation, but above all of the policies of the European Union. We could say that it is somewhat the state of the art of our nation as regards the process of forming a European culture of law, economy and society which can be said to be consistent with the principles and values we have chosen to share as members of the Union. For this reason, with its many articles, European law intervenes on provisions in force in our legal system in order to adapt its content to European law also through provisions that modify rules that are the subject of infringement proceedings against our Republic or with rules that allow to close cases of prelitigation. This is done on countless issues, on anti-discrimination rules, on the free movement of persons, goods and services, on the procurement code, on security, on justice or on the transposition of European arms directives. The issue of cybercrime is addressed, on which Italy, among other things, has not correctly transposed a directive. There is the issue of new cases of crime and the modification of the aggravated crimes of sexual exploitation of children and sexual violence against children, another area in which an infringement procedure has been opened. There is the chapter on taxation, customs, economic and monetary affairs, health, veterinary medicine, animal testing, on which our Commission has noted the inadequacy of the funds provided for the development of necessary and alternative methods. I stop, but the list would still be very long. It was necessary, however, to give an overview of how many situations this law deals with and how much the Commissioners of the 14th The Commission must work very hard on this. So there are a number of things that I can think of in relation to today's vote. First of all, there is the difficulty of making this type of measure known to Italian citizens because of its importance, although these complex texts, as far as they have been so far, strongly insist on aspects of their daily lives. The lack of awareness is undoubtedly our responsibility, that is, we are not able to make Italians feel that Europe and its system are not something abstract, distant and influential. And perhaps we legislators themselves should have made it clearer, so that we do not have to find ourselves again for months and months to put our hands on reports for bad or missing regulations in excess or in default. There are 88 infringement proceedings against Italy. There are many, there are too many and they are increasing compared to 2018. In this measure we have tried to heal some of them. The significant number of procedures, however, puts us in the face of an incontrovertible fact: unfortunately, we have little ability to be in line with Community legislation. The document that we drafted in the Commission is the result of a constructive debate, which has seen all political forces working together in an absolutely fruitful way; and it is a further extended document with respect to the already very important work that had come from the House. The central point, however, remains the complexity of the measure. The Forza Italia Group has tabled a series of amendments and agendas on which convergences have been found, which commit the Government to intervene with a series of initiatives, with particular reference for example to research - a sector that we very dear - with an agenda that undertakes to allocate appropriate financing measures for the development of new methodological approaches that do not include the use of animal testing, thus trying to heal an infringement procedure of 2013. There are also many other inputs, some of which have unfortunately failed, especially with regard to the medical sector and safety, where I would like to thank my colleague Giammanco, who has spent so much on video surveillance systems to protect minors, disabled people and the elderly. But now let me make a little note. Often and willingly in the 14th Commission we are faced with measures of this kind, in which everything is discussed, on many competences, from various points of view, although the Commissioners, despite their good will and their sensitive commitment, are not - or could be otherwise - omniscient. This - in my opinion - is a big limit, not so much for the work of us Members of the Commission, but for the Italian Parliament; and European law - as I have insisted - is an example of this limit. Having to spend so much time on a measure like this, which is in fact a corrective to Parliament's mistakes or forgetfulness, is a contradiction. We cannot pretend that Europe, its institutions and its system do not impact on our way of law-making. This approach is not effective: it is harmful and, above all, it is expensive. The experience of Covid has given us concrete evidence of how the individual Member States are interconnected and how much Europe is needed, if defined by a cohesive and clear framework from the point of view not only of value but also of procedure. The PNRR no longer allows us to legislate in complete autonomy, to the point that, in some cases, we deliberately choose to run into infringement procedures which we then have to remedy on time afterwards. I would therefore like to make an appeal for the involvement of the 14th The Commission, as well as that of the European Policy Department, is increasingly seen as a fundamental step towards effective regulation. The Italians asked us to be present, efficient and fast. There have been times when we have been slow, despite us, because what we have had to face has understandably altered the path of some measures. At other times, however - and this law is proof of this - our speed is difficult because we find ourselves having to make two, if not three times the same path. This does not mean, of course, turning to European legislation without a critical spirit, but it means strengthening the relationship with our MEPs and approaching measures with more pragmatism and precision. [[Applause]] More cohesion, more sharing and more dialogue between legislative levels are needed. Dialogue is the most beautiful form of art: a teacher of mine once told me in high school. It is a theme, that of dialogue, which all too often seems snubbed and crushed by systems with watertight compartments, deaf to one another; whereas instead they are precisely the greatest confrontation and multilevel collaboration that art possible of shaping the growth and evolution of society [[Applause]] , even in making ourselves more consciously and completely European citizens; also in making ourselves more consciously and completely good legislators at the service of those European citizens. In this spirit Forza Italia will vote "yes" to the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u75	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, "eppur moves," said Galileo Galilei, and was immediately accused of heresy. The title of the measure under consideration is a whole program ("European Law 2019-2020"), started in the Senate in October 2020, already very late, transmitted to us by the House. Maybe he's taking a step forward today, after exactly one year. And yet it moves, yes, of course; but it moves slowly, like our country. I hope that, thanks to my amendment, accepted by the Government and voted by the Commission, this bureaucratic mess that has been going on for years can also be put into order. At last we will have a European law and a European delegation law on these benches every six months and no longer every two years. Ours, seen from outside, looks like the postcard of a nation still in black and white, trying to travel within a European system that instead goes fast; so fast to communicate in 5G, so fast to reason in digital. And I say it with great regret, because the potential to run we have, but - alas - we are always as firm as that postcard in black and white, beautiful to see, romantic and nostalgic, but unfortunately completely out of time. I want to take for example an issue that is very dear to us, such as immigration, which has been present in the same way for years and with the same words in the 2019, 2020 and 2021 policy lines, without a word of novelty. If we compare the data between 2019 - then it was Minister Salvini - and 2021 - today is Minister Lamorgese - besides not having data on abusive rave parties from 6,000 people in full health emergency that no one sees, in the interval from 1 January to 2 November of their respective years to follow the difference in the number of landings is significant. And it certainly symbolizes an approach in the containment of illegal immigration that our Government successfully implemented. [[Applause.]] The 2019 figure, which I report, is 9.454 in this period of time, while the 2021 figure is 53.678: almost 600 percent more. And, precisely because we are in this government and in the face of these numbers, I wonder how it is possible not to question the wrong work of a minister. It takes courage to change things. It is clear - as the data say - that we need solutions first at national level and then at European level, but it is not only the League that says so. The fact is, it's only the League that carries this concept forward. [[Applause]] It does so through a new policy of dialogue, through shared solutions and some of these solutions we have indicated in the opinions of the immigration committees responsible during the analysis of the programme report, and for this I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission, as they were surprisingly voted by a large majority. As I said at the beginning, yet it moves, slow but moving. Therefore, we have voted on proposals to take all initiatives deemed useful in order to promote a strengthening of the external borders of the European Union in order to combat irregular migration flows and organised crime related thereto; to engage also with the objective of discouraging departures and supporting the creation, in the countries of transit and departure, of dedicated centres where to start immigrants in order to verify immediately the possible existence of the requirements required to be admitted to the granting of the right of asylum; to promote a migration policy of the European Union that is an integral part of the EU's external action in order to reach stable bilateral agreements with the countries of transit and departure in the new European framework for migration and asylum currently under discussion. In addition to these, many other indications we have given have been voted on. I address the people who are listening from home: all these things have been included by the League, with the League to the Government, because we can change the way, the ways, the tones, but our firm principles, the real ones, the ones on which our political action is based; those principles that have always made us go against the tide because convinced that we are in the right, because convinced of our ideas, will never be able to take them away from us neither in this, nor in any other Government. In recent days, we have learned that the Ministers of the interior of twelve Member States of the European Union have sent a letter to the European Commission asking for new instruments to prevent, rather than to deal with later, the serious consequences of overburdened migration and asylum systems and exhausted reception capacity, which ultimately have a negative impact on confidence in the ability to act decisively when necessary. At the same time, it is still read in a passage from the document that these European solutions should aim to safeguard the common asylum system by reducing attraction factors. How many ligistic things these European countries are saying because, apart from the usefulness of providing for the creation of such instruments with European funds or national funds, we once again highlight a concept that we have expressed dozens of times, but that some political parties pretend to forget: the Schengen system, which provides for the free movement between intra-European borders, needs to survive in a preliminary way strict control at the external borders. [[Applause]] Schengen cannot exist without the control of European borders, just as there cannot be a Europe without the control of its external borders. This is why we welcome the passages dedicated to the development of partnerships with the Southern Neighbourhood countries, which are read in the report. It is important to restore the proper centrality of the Mediterranean - as is always stated in the report - but above all it is important that these proposals be translated into concrete commitments once and for all. It is therefore essential to maintain the financial allocations of the funds for the external dimension of Europe concentrated in the southern chessboard, in particular towards the countries of North Africa, because especially in the area of stabilisation of North Africa and immigration our country will never be able to rely on the entire European Union. We have already seen what our strategic interests in North Africa are called for in Europe. The chaos post 2011 I think represents a great teaching, not to be repeated. On the contrary, Italy could move in partnership with Spain, a country that has convergent interests with ours. Moreover, it would be important for Italy to draw NATO's attention to cooperation between the two organisations, which can complement many aspects of the security and development of partnerships, rather than hypothesize projects of strategic autonomy with the European Union or common armies. On the issue of Libya, the ground of confrontation between two powers, Turkey and Russia, with Italy completely out of the way from the military point of view has now been declared. Having said that, however, we can have an important economic role: our companies and Libyan institutions want our presence and our know-how. Aiming at the economic development of this land means preventing our safety. As far as Tunisia is concerned, the important and symptomatic fact of the lack of accuracy that our country gives to foreign policy is the fact that, in 187 pages of the programmatic report, Tunisia is not named, and this is a very serious mistake for me. It is a country that is imploding from an economic, social and political point of view, with youth unemployment reaching 30% and that, during the pandemic, has seen a third of its small and medium-sized enterprises shut down. In this social fabric, which is disintegrating, it is good to remember that Tunisia is the country that has given the most fighters to the jihadist cause, in Syria and Iraq, and that already represents today the main share of migrants' origin in our territory. In 2020 Tunisia was declared a country of origin of almost 38 percent of migrants landed in Italy, confirming, moreover, a phenomenon in strong increase in previous years. It is a country on the verge of socio-economic disintegration, bordering Libya, only 78 miles away from Sicily and 39 miles from Pantelleria. Despite everything, this is an issue that is not considered in our political debate. Then there is the question of China: unlike the North African scenario, the containment of the People's Republic of China must be a matter of European interest. In this context, the EU must have no ambiguity in aligning with the transatlantic interests. It is a good thing that the programmatic report highlights the importance of making agreements with allies in Asia, as in South Korea and Japan; however, it is less good that there is no mention of the risks associated with China's rise. The European Union must also play its part and in defining strategic compasses, the document on the future strategic priorities of the Union on defence and security, which will take place in 2022, will be essential to gain ample space on the risks associated with China's military and economic expansionism. Finally, I would like to make a passage on the Stability Pact. It is noted that in spring 2022 the European Commission aims to put forward its proposal to make the path of public debt reduction sustainable. The economic repercussions of the pandemic will not end in a short time and there are several Europeans who reaffirm that this is no longer the time of austerity. The European Commission has envisaged the possibility of separating green investment from the deficit-to-GDP ratio, which we as a Group have brought into several resolutions, even during this parliamentary term. This approach must be maintained and extended to a number of themes. Investment that concerns and protects the future of the EU itself must be encouraged as much as possible. [[Call the president back.]] I'm finishing, Mr. President. The same applies to the rules of stability, which have now proved inadequate to date with history. A new major crisis has confirmed the inadequacy of the European limits. This is therefore a reflection that needs to be made, and it is a change that needs to be addressed, if we do not want to achieve new and much more serious fractures within Europe. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u78	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, almost all the speeches have already made an important point, namely that this European law, which was adopted in the Senate in October 2020, sees the light of day after more than a year. We approve European law 2019-2020 at the end of 2021. I do not dwell on this, but it is absurd that it takes more than two years for such a bill to be drawn up. European law is a so-called omnibus measure: it has, that is, a great deal of articles and arguments so large and complex that it often leads us to dilate the times. It would require a detailed examination of each issue, but for obvious reasons and for the sake of time it is not possible to do so in an intervention in explanation of vote. I am trying to draw the House's attention to a number of amendments because, thanks to the proposal of the Movimento 5 Stars and more, with the sharing and teamwork done in the 14th The Commission and so many other colleagues have succeeded in restoring Parliament's central role. Colleagues, I hear you and I see you a little distracted. I often follow your speeches and you first, without distinction of political colors, often speak of the centrality of Parliament, of respect for the role, but, not listening, it proves the exact opposite. I will return to my speech. With Amendment 34.0.1, together with all the majority forces, we have amended the reference law laying down general rules on Italy's participation in the training and implementation of EU legislation and policies. Therefore, with the amendment introduced, the Government from now on, for each appointment linked to the Council of the European Union - but also for meetings of the Eurogroup or for informal meetings - will have to report to Parliament. [[Applause]] This is important: we ask for centrality and we are doing so with an important and substantial amendment to Law No 234 of 2012. By accepting everyone's invitation, we have managed to bring this down to normal. The government will always have to deal with the two branches of Parliament. I am going ahead and I would like to move on to Article 43: another important goal that has been achieved with the other political forces. We are talking about a reference to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which we have heard of and for which we have interacted with the Commissions and the two branches of Parliament. On this front too, often due to the complexity, the cogency and the strict terms, there is no continuity in the information and communication between the Government, the directing chamber and Parliament. That is why, together with the other colleagues from all sides, we have provided for a precise article requiring the Government to come to the House to report regularly and, in any case, at least every six months. I now turn to Article 41, which amends the aforementioned Law No 234, which provides that the Government may present two laws of European delegation and two European laws per year. This is what my colleague Simone Bossi said, and I would like to stress this: it is important to ensure that laws such as today's legislation are not allowed to extend the time in an abnormal way, even reducing the effectiveness of the rules themselves. I would also like to point out that in the various debates within the Commission, even during the wide-ranging discussion between the parties, we have touched on very sensitive issues. I still dedicate a passage to video surveillance, emphasizing that the Movimento 5 Stars is aware of the scope of interest related to the theme of video surveillance in those places. We therefore reiterate that we will proceed in accordance with the arrangements and agreements made in the Commission - hopefully little by little - and in the budget law we will try to put an end or start point, depending on the point of view, on the matter referred to. In conclusion, it seems to me that two elements emerge from this European law: on the one hand we see a renewed centrality of Parliament in European political life, a Parliament that will count much more than now and that will finally be able to direct not only Italian policy but also European policy; on the other hand, we see a joint effort of all the powers of the State in addressing the greatest challenge that this country has faced since the post-war period. I am referring once again to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is an unprecedented opportunity, but let me stress that if we fail to respect ways and times, it could turn into a failure that could dig an unbreakable gap between Italy and the other countries of the Union. Therefore, everyone's greatest effort is needed to recover from the disasters that the pandemic has created and I believe that with the legislation drawn up in the Commission it will be easier to overcome this challenge. [[Brusio]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since you are so careful, I shall end this speech a few minutes in advance, so that you are free from this task, since there is no interest in it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u79	Senator Lorefice, I am sorry that you have reduced your speech by a few seconds, but attention beyond a certain limit cannot be expected. However, I believe that you are right to say that this House must try to be less noisy during the speeches made by our fellow Members. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2169, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). I would point out that the bill was passed with zero votes against. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1, adopted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u80	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments 1.1 and 1.4. We had tabled six amendments, but we withdrew three: 1.2, 1.3 and 1.5. Of course, this majority resolution does not represent us, but we have wanted to table constructive amendments and not to make presumptuous battles. Above all, we wanted to avoid unnecessary splits in the right centre. As Brothers of Italy we continue to think that this is a transitional and unnatural phase characterized by a broad government alliance, but our intention is to preserve the unity of the Right Center, in order to give Italy a different Government and patriots. Therefore, we wanted to avoid unnecessary divisions, but we have maintained principles that we hold and consider useful for Italy. The first is to give substance to what the European Union is demanding, namely to work towards defending its external borders and combating mass illegal immigration. This too is not obvious: the Italian Left believes it is right to open the borders to illegal mass immigration, but the European Union does not agree and in every place tells the Member States, but above all Italy, to control its own borders. We believe that this must be done, also in order not to make Italy the refugee camp of Europe, so we call for a concrete commitment of the Government on this. Amendment 1.4 raises a question of civilization, which Brothers of Italy has tried several times to place in every place. How can the European Union, rightly so attentive to respect for human rights, the rights of every citizen, the rights of minorities, the rights of women and the rights of homosexuals, pretend that it does not know that it is constantly entering into agreements of all natures with countries that do not respect these rights? We consider it a great anomaly and a great hypocrisy. That is why we have called for Italy to commit itself in Europe to banning cultural and training agreements with states which provide for laws in their own legal system which do not recognise full equality of rights for women and which provide for the crime of homosexuality within them. We are not saying that we do not have diplomatic relations; we are restricting the issue to cultural and educational agreements, because perhaps, as has already happened with the agreement with Qatar, with the only vote against by Brothers of Italy, it becomes bizarre to promote the cultural exchanges of our schoolchildren with Qatar, where the crime of homosexuality is foreseen. That doesn't make much sense. That is why we are calling for this commitment and we hope that the Government will accept these common sense amendments by Brothers of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u81	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Fazzolari for bringing the issue of nutrition score back to the attention of this House. We know very well that thanks to the Brothers of Italy, both in this branch of Parliament and in the House, we have defined the line of the whole Parliament with regard to this issue; a line of defence of the Italian product which, as you well know, is under attack, not so much by competition from outside Europe, but precisely by those European nations that do not intend to copy our capacity in terms of origin and quality, but rather to limit our impact in the markets through a strong discrimination of the Italian products and above all the traditions and secular methods with which our products are made. Therefore, given that the European Union is moving towards a French Presidency, which we all know is one of the biggest sponsors of the nouri-score, of this highly discriminatory system for our products, today more than ever it becomes even more important to be able to implement a contrast in all locations by doing lobbying. It must be done above all on the basis of the scientificity of the uselessness of the system, perorating what is instead the Nutrinform battery that the Italian State itself has placed as the best bulwark of public health, but being able to combine also the protection of our products. Therefore, today in the law before our examination it becomes even more important to stress once again the importance of opposing what has been highlighted, all together, without political flags; I remember that Brothers of Italy is the first party that has put the issue to the attention of Parliament, sharing it in fact with everyone, knowing that one only achieves one goal when there is maximum sharing. In this case we absolutely need it because we are not discussing a product of Brothers of Italy, but the entire national system of agri-food production, whose export, as you know, now has more than 50 billion turnover; this objectively puts in a bit 'difficult and alert the other States that would rather, discriminating us, protecting perhaps their productions or moving towards productions that have little to do with the origin and quality and perhaps very much with the laboratory. I believe that synthetic meat is a clear example of what tomorrow's world would like. We do not need to be scientists, we simply need to take the book of Bill Gates where it is written, by thread and by sign, the point of fall within which we would like to converge agricultural policies. We are convinced that our nation must be endowed instead with a strategic and serious national agricultural plan, which also takes into account the fact that many nations of Europe pretend to be friends, but in reality they tend to discriminate always our product in the name of other cultures, but above all of a system of life other than ours, which is certainly not based on the tradition and quality of food. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u82	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u83	Mr President, with regard to the proposed amendments, we are asking for amendment 1.1 to be reworded in the following terms: "to give concreteness to the indications contained in the conclusions of the European Council in June and October 2021 on migration and asylum, in accordance with... If this rewording is accepted, a favourable opinion shall be expressed. With regard to amendment 1.4, rewording is called for in the following terms: It shall assess, before the conclusion of any cultural or training agreement, whether the laws of the Member States provide in their own legal system............................................................................................................ Once again, if the rewording is accepted, the opinion is favourable. I am also in favour of amendment 1.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u84	Senator Fazzolari, do you accept the rewording of the amendments?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u85	Mr President, I accept the rewording of amendments 1.1 and 1.4. I thank the rapporteur for the fact that the inclusion of the content of amendment 1.4 in the majority motion for a resolution will enable Italy to take a huge step forward in the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u86	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u87	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.2, 1.3 and 1.5 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I note that no votes have been cast against. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senators Fazzolari and De Carlo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Stefano, Candiani, Lorefice, Nannicini, Giammanco, Ginetti, Bonino, De Petris and Steger, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 2 is therefore precluded. The adoption of motion for a resolution No 1 means that the debate on the reports on the agenda will be over.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u88	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law No 865. I would remind you that at its meeting on 28 October the rapporteur supplemented the written report and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to your speeches, which reveals the desire to remedy the serious error made by the constitutional reform introduced by Law No 3 of 2001 with regard to the amendment of Article 119 of the Constitution. We have to say this without a twist: removing from the constitutional text any reference to insularity, replacing it with a reference to territories with less fiscal capacity per inhabitant, regardless of geographical conditions, was the result of a pseudo-federalist political season, which looked to the South and the islands with little favor, sharpening the reasons for disadvantage. I will mention just a few of them, briefly. Transport: the islands are facing a problem linked to the greater complexity of the connections with the mainland. This imposes an increase in costs on the transport of persons, goods and services aimed at ensuring territorial continuity. The environment: islands are often characterised by a fragile ecosystem, particularly vulnerable to climate change and phenomena such as coastal erosion, drought and scarcity of natural resources, which is linked to energy dependence on land. In addition, threats to the environment can arise from uncontrolled tourist flows, which often constitute the main sources of income for the territories. This suggests public intervention to promote the production of energy from renewable sources and, more generally, the adoption of measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change. The reduced economic capacity, the small size and the scarcity of natural resources lead to less diversification of activities and favour specialization in economic sectors characterised by substantial seasonality, such as fisheries, agriculture and tourism. Investment in infrastructure, including information and communication, can counter this trend and foster economic development. Last but not least, in the islands there are higher rates of ageing of the resident population, given that fewer economic opportunities encourage the movement of young people to the mainland and therefore. low employment rates and lower professional skills in the labour force. This constitutional change, in particular, has distorted the idea of solidarity and economic and social development desired by the constituent Fathers, perfectly aware of all the limitations and problems that only those who live and do business in the islands suffer. It is precisely from the citizens who face the island every day that the draft constitutional law that we are going to vote on today is derived. It is a bill of popular initiative with which, as we have already seen in the previous sitting, a new paragraph is introduced in Article 119 of the Constitution, in order to explain the concept that the Republic recognizes the peculiarities of the islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages deriving from insularity. This text, which is widely shared and which marks a real U-turn, has been achieved thanks to an excellent work done in the Commission, for which I would once again like to thank my colleagues for the responsibility, seriousness and commitment shown on such an important subject for millions of Italians. In conclusion, Mr President, I hope that the adoption of this draft constitutional law of popular initiative will be a warning for future constitutional reforms, in order to preserve and improve the immense and wonderful work of the constituent Fathers, capable of paying attention to the different realities of our peninsula and drawing up a text aimed at promoting the well-being and development of all citizens, regardless of the geographical area in which they were born or lived. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u90	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u93	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I quote the words that Beppe Severgnini wrote about the Corriere della Sera about ten days ago: Hey, there's an island in the west! It is not the cry of a lookout by Christopher Columbus. It is a consideration that we should all make at the beginning of the 21st century. There is a large Italian island that we remember for four months a year, when it offers us the most enchanting water in the Mediterranean. What has happened since October and May disappears in the mist on the sea of communication. That island, of course, is called Sardinia. What are the Sardinians asking today with this bill? Do they still want money? No, the Sardinians do not want money; they want those additional costs resulting from the condition of insularity to be compensated in the name of national cohesion. He still writes Severgnini: "The Sardinians don't want money"; "they want the same conditions of departure as the other Italians. It doesn't sound like an illogical request. This draft law is certainly an important first step in that direction. It is an expected step, which has been called for for years and which finally arrives for the first reading in this area of Parliament. The Republic is finally called upon to recognize the peculiarities, but also the related disadvantage which they derive from the island territories, thus promoting all the necessary measures to remove the disadvantages related to the island status of which I have spoken earlier. It is a battle born in the islands, but it cannot fail to find the conclusion of this path in the consent of the entire country, in the name of that principle of cohesion also recalled by Severgnini. I believe that this goal represents in an exemplary way a synthesis between institutional subjects, political forces and trade unions with very distant stories and cultures that, however, have been able to enhance and share a common path. It is no coincidence that the collection of the signatures of the referendum has been supported and supported by many political parties, trade unions and business organisations, men of culture: obviously the problem is firmly felt, but perhaps never addressed in the right way, as we are finally doing in this House today. The draft law, as you said, Mr President, consists of only one article (very simple), and it is accompanied by a report which well explains the reasons for this measure, expressing the disadvantage faced by Italian citizens living on the islands; and at the same time it shows the need for the national community to recognise this condition and thus ensure that all necessary action is taken to ensure that the inhabitants of the islands also have equal opportunities and equal rights of citizenship. The condition of insularity is certainly a reality that directly affects the islands and those who live there, but in fact it is the entire country that must realize and take charge of it, putting the appropriate remedies to the disadvantages that result. So far the state has been deaf to these critical issues, but today - at last - we are taking note that the island regions have specific geographical, economic, demographic and social characteristics that pose unique challenges in the implementation of national and European policies. Small size, limited local market and difficulties in achieving economies of scale, very high transport costs: these problems we are dealing with every day are known. Who, like me, travels every week knows what it means to move people; imagine what it means to transport goods from the peninsula to the islands. A further problem is the compression of social and training services for citizens. In the document on economic programming 2021-2027, approved by the Conference of Italian Regions, it was highlighted that cohesion policy after 2020 cannot and must not leave the islands, but - on the contrary - must recognise the strategic role of the islands themselves and create the conditions for equal and consistent development with other areas of Europe. At that meeting, the European institutions were formally asked to provide for specific regulatory and policy measures to compensate for territorial discontinuity. And, again, the problem of territorial continuity has not been clarified. We think that we are extremely late, for example, in relation to Corsica, which has a much better system of territorial continuity towards France. On the contrary, it is a territorial continuity, which does not exist in Italy and in particular in Sardinia. Sardinia is different from the other islands, as it is isolated in the center of the Mediterranean and reachable only by plane or ship. Even if the Constitutional Court itself wishes to stick to the internal system, it has repeatedly focused on the issue, pointing out that the State must establish a fair partnership with territorial self-government in the management of budgetary policies, always to reduce those disadvantages that are before everyone's eyes. It is not a question of providing favorable treatment to some regions, rather than others, but of finally taking note of the characteristics and the permanent peculiarities that distinguish the island regions from the continental ones. This derives from the incontrovertible fact that the insularity, understood as territorial discontinuity, implies specificities of an economic, transport, environmental, social and demographic nature that determine an objective disadvantage and conditions absolutely different from the other Regions, thus placing the island region in a condition of "lowerness." As I said, I know these problems because I live them every day and that is why I think it is extremely urgent to change the constitution if we consider the daily prejudice and disadvantage faced by the Sardinians on a regular basis and on a daily basis. In practice, the economy of the islands slowed down during 2019 and in 2020, due to the objective conditions we know, there was a significant contraction in economic activity. In particular, Sardinia is below almost all the indicators adopted by the European Commission to express the competitiveness of the European regions, placing itself at two hundred and thirty-fourth place in 2019 on 268 European regions, with extremely negative assessments on some crucial dimensions such as infrastructure, human capital and innovation. If we were to enter into the infrastructure speech, there would be - of course I am referring to Sardinia - to talk for days. In Sardinia, in fact, half an island that has no railways and those present are narrow gauge, that is the normal trains that circulate on the rest of the territory of Italy and in the western part of Sardinia cannot go to serve, if you do not change the road and the tracks, the areas of the eastern part of Sardinia. In this context the pandemic has played a negative role It's getting worse. However, now is the time to really put a hand on these problems. For the island regions we must finally foresee that this condition is included in the Constitution in order to be able to fill the gap, the disadvantage and the diversity between territories, placing all the Regions of Italy on the same level, with the same attentions directed to the rest of the territory. 12.06 p.m. (Follow CUCCA). Insularity is a geographical condition that has a direct impact on the lives of individuals. This obviously cannot be a brake on the economic development of some territories to the detriment of others and, therefore, we must - in this sense I announce the favorable vote of Italy Viva-Partito Socialista Italiano - strongly support the measure precisely in order to put an end to the conditions of disadvantage that until now have hit the island regions, with particular reference - let me say, but in this case bell tollism is of obligation - to Sardinia, which is the largest island and which suffers the most the condition of insularity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u96	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we welcome the start of the debate on the draft law which introduces an important amendment to Article 119 of the Constitution by which, recognizing the difficulties of Italian citizens living in the islands, the Republic's will to remove the disadvantages resulting from insularity is to be incorporated directly into the Constitution. It is an important and fundamental aim to ensure that these citizens can also enjoy every right guaranteed to all others. I am thinking of the rights to health, education and, above all, to have living and working conditions as equal as possible to the citizens who live throughout the rest of the country. I believe, however, that, for intellectual honesty, it must be pointed out that within the insularity there are differences between those who live in the two major islands (Sicily and Sardinia) - which, I remind all of us, also enjoy a special statute - and those who live, instead, in the so-called minor islands, who are even more penalized because in many of them they lack essential services such as hospitals and schools. In some cases, in those paradoxically considered the luckiest there are often seasonal small garrisons. Having said that, it is certain that when we talk about islands we talk about territories that are a specificity of our country and characterize its historical, cultural, social and administrative identity. Despite this, there are still strong elements of substantial discrimination against the conditions of the communities of the major islands, and further for the smaller islands, compared to those of the continent which, if not removed, mortify the enormous potential of this reality. The most frequently proposed problems are well known to all of us and relate in particular to transport, water supply, health care, education, housing conditions and waste disposal, hydrogeological failure and population desertification. I only mentioned the most striking ones. Therefore, if we want to stop a process of progressive erosion of the island communities and in particular the transformation of the smaller islands - excused if I insist on this issue - into artificial tourist villages inhabited only in the summer months, if we want to prevent the dispersion of what remains of ancient traditions, through a creeping migration process, but not for this less forceful and unjust, we must intervene promptly with effective measures. Surely this amendment to Article 119 of the Constitution is a fundamental element in the matter, but even more decisive will be ordinary administrative action. Senator colleagues, I myself was the first signatory of a bill to establish a free zone in the smaller islands, precisely with the aim of closing that gap between those who live in the islands, and specifically in the smaller islands, compared to those who live in the remaining national territory. The draft law in question, which I signed on behalf of the Group of Brothers of Italy, provided for: exemption from income tax, total for the five first tax periods and partial for the subsequent periods up to the ninth year; exemption from regional tax on production activities for the first five tax periods, up to the EUR 300,000 tax base for each tax period; exemption from contributions on employees' wages, total for the first five years of activity, clearly within certain limits and conditions, and partial for the subsequent period up to the ninth. The measures envisaged were all directed in this direction. But, beyond the specific actions, we are convinced that only through these concrete acts, which are also a consequence of the constitutional change, can the economy of these territories be revived and balanced development promoted. This, ladies and gentlemen, must not be considered a privilege, but the only remedy to compensate for the difficulties of those living in the islands, where production costs are much higher than in the remaining parts of Italy, due to a lack of infrastructure and the high cost of transport and energy. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this bill that I have just mentioned has then merged with others into a bill approved by this branch of Parliament as a framework law for the development of the smaller islands, lagoons and lakes. Too bad, though, that there is no trace of tax breaks. Despite this, we approved it on October 17, 2018 and sent it to the House, where the discussion in the Commissions began on January 23, 2019; but to date it still seems all over the sea, a bit like our islands are there in the middle of the sea. So the desire to incorporate this principle into the Constitution, but then - I repeat - we need the political will to carry out the subsequent actions and, unfortunately, to date, we do not see and have not actually seen this political will. I conclude, President, by clearly announcing the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on this draft law. At the same time, I would like to remind myself and you, ladies and gentlemen, that with this approval we must not think that we have concluded a path, but rather that there must be the awareness that it represents the beginning of a long series of acts to enhance the natural, historical and identity heritage that characterizes our islands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u99	Mr Marilotti (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a long-awaited measure in this House by a considerable number of citizens, those who live in the large and small islands of our country. He arrives in the Senate as a bill of popular initiative, which calls for the reintegration into the Constitution of the principle of insularity, too hastily repealed with the reform of Title V. If we take into account that from 1979 until the end of the last parliamentary term 262 proposals of popular initiative have been presented, of which only three have become laws, while 151, that is 60%, have not even been discussed, that is 7.5 million signatures of citizens have been thrown in the wind, we must recognize that this is a relevant fact, which redeems part of the Upper House, many times the subject of criticism for the distance from the citizens. This time, 120,000 signatures of voters who signed the proposal have been heard and this fact is already relevant in itself. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I thank for its sensitivity and competence, wanted to incorporate, in particular in the person of its President, Senator Parrini, and the rapporteur, Senator Garruti, very well-heard requests and did so without giving up - indeed exalting him - his institutional role. Account has been taken of the evolution of Community law, which lives increasingly in synergy with our Constitution and our legal system. Already with the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997 this principle of insularity was better specified, in the second paragraph of Article 130a, which states: In particular, the Community aims to reduce the gap between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least favoured or island regions, including rural areas. Since nothing had moved within the European Union for ten years, the need to strengthen this new provision was felt by the Lisbon Treaty, signed on 13 December 2007, in which island, cross-border and mountain regions with serious and permanent natural and demographic handicaps are mentioned. Ten more years, however, have passed in vain. The European Union, always ready to take action to impose strict requirements in sectors such as agriculture and livestock, which are of interest to strong countries, has continued to ignore nothing and not to recognize the right to rebalancing in the regions which it itself calls disadvantaged. On the one hand, official documents call for principles such as this: EU competition policies ensure that companies compete fairly and on a level playing field in the European internal market; on the other hand, the European Union is highly stepmothers and very often makes inequalities. Let's take the cost of transport. That on iron practiced in the Italian Peninsula or in the European Continent has a unit cost to kilometer; that on ship to and for Sardinia has a much greater unitary cost and this surplus goes to increase the final cost, with consequent reduction of the profit. What a level playing field! The same goes for energy, which costs more for the increased transport costs or the absence of a net, that metaneria, known to be less expensive. (Brusio). Mr President, can you tell my fellow Members who are not interested in this important subject that they should stop the bustle? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let us try to allow those who intervene to carry out their interventions and those who wish to listen to them. Please, Senator Marilotti, continue. Mr Marilotti (PD). Thank you, President. Not to mention the great infrastructures, the high speed and the road system as a whole, which in the Peninsula have costs cushioned by territorial continuity, which objectively lacks in island realities. Sardinia, with this measure, as Senator Cucca also recalled, does not expect conditions of favor, but of rebalancing. The island entrepreneurs no longer ask for money, but conditions such as tax concessions that allow them to be in the market; they want to compete on an equal footing and this is a right enshrined, as well as by our Constitution, also by European standards. For example, the European Parliament resolution of 4 February 2016 on insularity, which states in point 4: The European Parliament requests that the Commission launch a study/in-depth analysis of the additional costs that the condition of insularity determines at the level of passenger and freight transport systems and energy supply as well as in terms of market access, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. This resolution has not yet been followed up, although many studies by public and private bodies have shown the real disadvantages of island status. I realize that the re-integration of the principle of insularity into the Constitution does not solve the problems with a magic wand stroke. However, it strengthens and gives greater weight to the struggles of the most disadvantaged regions in order to negotiate, through an operational table that sees Government, Regions and the European Union concretely address the problem and take the necessary measures to achieve effective cohesion between all territories. The urgency of this consultation is underlined by the re-emergence of the long-standing problem of territorial, maritime and air continuity. With the failure of Alitalia, which ensured territorial continuity with a reasonable number of flights to and from Sardinia, we have entered a grey area, in which the new low cost dealers guarantee only a small number of flights. I should like to end by thanking the promoters of this popular initiative, in particular Roberto Frongia, who died prematurely in the meantime, and Professor Maria Antoinetta Mongiu, for her passion and commitment, and all the Sardinian senators, who followed with me the process of this constitutional reform bill. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u102	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I believe that today we are faced with a very important event, not only because, unfortunately, there have been attempts in the past legislation, unfortunately, not to put Parliament's attention to the issue of insularity, which is so important for the territories, with all that it entails in terms of disadvantages and lack of balance, but also because the arrival at the attention of this House of this text is the result of a popular initiative. Despite recent amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we are unfortunately accustomed to seeing few laws of popular initiative coming to the attention of the House and being adopted. As you well understand, then, today's event is indeed an extremely important event. The draft Constitutional Law, therefore, seeks to remedy a very serious and serious error made in 2001 with the reform of Title V of the Constitution, which, with the new wording of Article 119, has led to the disappearance of any reference to the enhancement of the Mezzogiorno and the islands as a priority objective. There is therefore not only the concept of insularity, but also the strong and urgent question of the rebalancing of assistance for the Mezzogiorno and the islands. I would like to point out that the text before the 2001 reform provided for a very clear and explicit reference in Article 119: "particularly in order to enhance the Mezzogiorno and the islands, the State grants special contributions by law to individual regions." This forecast, which was contained in Article 119 before the 2001 reform, was in fact completely eliminated, which, in my opinion, was a very serious mistake compared to the same debate that was held in the constituent Assembly, in which the subject was discussed for a long time. The minutes of the Constitution recall, for example, an intervention in this sense by Emilio Lussu on 14 November 1946, during the discussion on local autonomy for the drafting of article 116: It should be noted that Sicily and Sardinia are islands [...] in order to put them in a position to function [...] granting them a particular form of self-government not only, but also of rebalancing. This debate has been deleted in fact from the reform of Title V, clearly resulting in some serious consequences, which have aggravated a difficult situation, which obviously existed already before 2001, ensuring that the conditions of disadvantage in these years become more acute. I would like to remind you of the main issues to which these disadvantages arise: think of the transport issue. Later we will discuss the decree-law on infrastructure; there has been a great transformation with the disappearance of Alitalia and will increasingly open a very strong problem, as the Sardinian senators know, regarding, for example, the question of territorial continuity. We are also talking about disadvantages with regard to the environment, for example, knowing that islands are more fragile ecosystems, particularly vulnerable to climate change. We also have the very serious problem of unemployment and depopulation. These issues have become particularly serious in recent years. This bill of popular initiative is fundamental: it is not only the formal and banal transcription of a geographical condition within the Constitutional Charter, but the recognition in our Constitution of the objective disadvantages associated with it - this is the point - which strongly raises the question of respect for Article 3, therefore of rebalancing. This is certainly a national theme, which concerns our identity, made of large islands, such as Sardinia and Sicily, but also many others. It is therefore a characteristic and identity issue for us, but also for Europe, because it concerns the right of all citizens of the Union to freedom of movement and freedom of establishment, which are among other things the founding pillars of the European community itself. The disadvantage caused by the condition of insularity affects not only the ability of people to move, but the freedom to choose whether to live or not in their own land, without having to give up opportunities for study, experiences of life, work and cultural, social and economic relationship beyond the sea. This is the fundamental point on which the amendment to Article 119 of the Constitution is based, putting all of us today in front of the fact that it is necessary to follow up the introduction of this amendment with a series of measures that can make this freedom of choice very concrete. The serious and permanent natural disadvantage of being an island produces a strong weakening of social cohesion and involves very serious problems, as we have seen in all these years, precisely in the socio-economic development of the islands. Let us take some data from Sardinia, which has been included, among other things, among the Objective 1 regions of the European Union precisely because of its underdevelopment conditions: it has a competitiveness index of 23.75 per cent, compared with the average European rate of 60.3 per cent and 57 per cent of Lombardy. Every year 3,500 young people from Sardinia, mostly graduates and graduates, leave the island because they find no job opportunities. From the CNEL's infrastructure atlas there are other very worrying data of Sardinia's delay in comparison with the rest of the country, from energy networks to road and rail networks, to economic and social infrastructure. All these analyses tell us that, even with respect to the financial resources per capita and territorial allocated in the last ten years in relation to infrastructures, for example in Sardinia, there is also a very strong drop in investments. There are delays to be filled very strongly, therefore the recognition of the condition of insularity and its insertion, finally, also in the Constitution, after its cancellation with the reform of Title V, is certainly a very important step, a constitutional recognition of the disadvantage and a commitment of the Republic to the rebalancing. That is why we will vote very strongly in favour of this draft law, in which there really is a commitment to remedy this disadvantage and to put in place all the necessary measures for rebalancing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u105	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to begin with a due thank you to the promoters of the People's Initiative. Without the mobilization of hundreds of militants and without the 200,000 signatures, between referendum and popular initiative law, we would not be here today; signatures collected both in Sardinia, in Sicily, in the smaller islands and even in many municipalities of the peninsula; signatures affixed consciously and informedly, thanks to the great media campaign made at local level in various territories. A special thanks - allow me - is addressed to the late Roberto Frongia of the Sardinian Reformers of Massimo Fantola, chairman of the committee promoting the law on insularity. Roberto Frongia's work was assiduous and extraordinary and I must say thank you. Together with him we thank all the representatives of associationism, civil society and institutions, starting with the mayors, who many in Sardinia - and not only - have joined the initiative of the promoter movement. Thanks also to the political parties for the support they have given to the trade unions and employers' organizations. Thank you very much to all of them. Being an island is a clear disadvantage in a legal framework that provides for certain forms of autonomy also provided for in the Constitution. However, the inclusion - that is to say, better than before - of the concept of insularity in the Constitutional Charter is now a fundamental step. The Italian islands will be granted the essential right to close a clear deficit against the peninsula, which will show governments not to take decisions that accentuate this difference. The fact that the Sardinian Region already has a special statute, like Sicily, which allows it to have autonomy of revenue, obviously not enough, because in any case it is subject to national laws, as well as to Community constraints, which often consider state aid legitimate island demands. The diversity between living on an island and in a national context is clear and does not need to be explained. I'm just saying that a number of scholars attribute to insularity a deficit that can be estimated at around 20% on the island economy; moreover, according to other studies, the cost of insularity can be quantified in thousands of euros per capita per year (there is talk of a figure between 3,000 and 5,000 euros). These studies have not been done in Sardinia, but are national and supported by those that have been done on my island. It is therefore clear that it is necessary to put the islands in a position to compete on equal terms with other national territories. The new text of Article 119 of the Constitution is a good one in appropriate and appropriate terms and for this reason I would like to thank my colleagues from the 1st Commission for their excellent work. The text that we are going to approve reads: The Republic recognises the peculiarities of the islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages resulting from insularity. This paragraph is added after the fifth to Article 119 of the Constitution, which concerns the entities of the territory. It now contains an even more precise definition than that contained in paragraph 3 of the same Article until 2001, when the Charter of Fundamental Rights was amended. That text recited: In order to provide for specific purposes, and in particular to enhance the Mezzogiorno and the Islands, the State grants by law special contributions to individual regions. Therefore, the text that we are going to approve makes us return to the ratio and spirit of the constituent Fathers, who imagined an all-equal Italy from North to South, including islands. We must recognise that this text seems to us to be more timely and appropriate for the purpose even of the proposed popular initiative bill, which remains the merit of having brought the problem of insularity to the Senate's examination until it reaches the Assembly's examination. The issue is to bridge an economic gap. The way to do this is to promote the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages of insularity. It is therefore not just a question of ensuring effective equality and real enjoyment of individual and inalienable rights, as stated in the initial text of the bill of popular initiative; it is a question of promoting measures that remove the disadvantages of being an island, because it is precisely the removal of disadvantages (economic and not only) that implies greater enjoyment of people's rights. It is a new economic constitution, which commits the legislator to take into account the disadvantages of being an island when issuing ordinary laws. In particular, expenditure rules and provisions relating to the tax system will have to take account of the constitutional rule which requires the removal of territorial disadvantages. To this end, the important thing is that the disadvantages of insularity are cancelled and that we can start again in competition with the regions that are now richer. The aim is to start from the same starting block, thus eliminating the competitive disadvantages that are now evident to everyone, from infrastructure to energy, networks, health care and connections that make us stand back today. I am convinced that the islanders can make it by starting again from a situation of equality and not of disadvantage, because the recognition of insularity means reducing the burdens of territorial discontinuity, with people and goods that can move at lower costs, building infrastructures, networks and connections to measure of Region. Unfortunately, the question of territorial continuity to date seems far from resolved, as Mr Marilotti said in his speech: there is no certainty for the planes, the continuity expires in seven months; we see what will happen, we certainly fly with difficulty, but this is not the time to talk about it. Continuity is not only that between the island and the continent, but also the internal one. Let us think of the absence of electrification of the railways, I should say, but better to speak of a totally inadequate or absent rail system. And, again, there are the absence of motorways, the reduced infrastructure in Sardinia and the energy that costs more than the rest of Italy. We must certainly forget - or we must not - that Italy is also part of the European Union. It should be recalled that Title XVIII of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for the provisions for social, economic and territorial cohesion in Articles 174 to 178. The provisions of this Title have continuous logical and functional links with the rest of the Treaty, which serves to ensure that social and economic differences in the Union are reduced. Article 174 in particular provides that the Union should aim to reduce the delay of the least favoured regions and, between them, the island regions: it is logically linked to Article 170, which provides for the creation of European networks to create an area without frontiers. Therefore, that European network, the corridor we are asking to create with Sardinia and the other islands, must be there. The government will have to take note today that the adoption of the constitutional bill that we are discussing brings with it a new and strong will of Parliament towards the islands, so that they are no longer isolated, which is also to be enforced in Europe. The Commission will also have to deal with the problem of insularity at European level, as well as at national level, because the links with Europe are important for social cohesion. The problem of insularity is strongly linked to social cohesion and equality of origin with other European realities, not only with Italian ones. We hope that the Draghi Government, which is now negotiating with the European Union in a strong way, will achieve what other governments have not achieved with regard to the relationship between insularity and Europe. Returning to the discussion of the insularity in the Constitution, I would like to extend a final thank you to my colleague, the Group president, Anna Maria Bernini, who from the beginning gave great importance to the insularity and supported us even when the issue was to be presented to the Senate in an important speech with President Alberti Casellati. I thank Senator Bernini and all of you. [[Applause]] The goal is not to go with the hat in hand in Italy or in Europe, but to get the recognitions that allow us to start from the same point and to contribute with our capabilities to the improvement of GDP throughout the nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u108	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote leads us to analyze a key point of our role as senators, that of guaranteeing the same opportunities for growth to all citizens. Under the same principle, the law on equal pay for men and women was passed in the Senate, an essential rule which, just like the one we have examined, should have been in force for many years now. We are gathered here to vote for the inclusion of the principle of insularity in the Constitution, in order to recognize to the islands like Sardinia and Sicily the natural disadvantage deriving from the insularity and to introduce the necessary measures to guarantee an effective equality and a real enjoyment of the inalienable individual rights. As representative of Sardinia, I believe that we cannot tolerate that a productive island can start with a huge deficit such as it has today, due to the energy problem due to the lack of methane and to those of maritime and air transport and territorial continuity, with the railways almost non-existent and dating back to 1800 and a distance from the Peninsula that increases the costs and the times for each activity. I repeat that the railways are still narrow gauges. How can we hope that Sardinian companies will have the same results as national competitors, if their purchase and sale costs will always be unfavourable? How could they remain competitive, starting from a marked disadvantage? The principle of insularity recognizes to Sardinian companies the penalization in doing business, on which it is necessary to act in order to fill the gap and place the enterprises under the same competitive conditions as the national competitors; this path must be supported by precise objectives and dedicated resources, otherwise the risk is that the words, even if written in the Constitution, remain only such. The dispute must be opened both with the State and with Europe, so that we do not clash with European regulations and fill the legal inconsistencies between European and Italian law, in order to guarantee access to funds. Agriculture is a key sector for the Sardinian economy, but also in this case we realize how disadvantaged we are? Imagine that we have the highest cost of all our competitors for the purchase of raw materials necessary for our work and we add higher and higher costs to deliver local products out of the island, as well as, dulcis in the end, a time handicap of twelve to twenty-four hours for the deliveries of products out of Sardinia: in a society like ours, based on the will everything, immediately and at low cost, we can quickly deduce how bad this situation is for the sector. The huge gaps we find in the islands are linked to credit, competitiveness, very slow bureaucracy, infrastructure, energy, transport and productivity, forcing small and medium-sized enterprises to manage with respect to competitors and to take off with great effort. If we look, President, at the transport situation, Sardinia urgently needs a functional and lasting territorial continuity, which allows citizens to move freely, without feeling isolated, and to plan their activities with serenity, without having to think whether or not they will have territorial continuity after May, as Volotea has not clarified, the Spanish airline company that currently manages flights in territorial continuity. Sicily, last August, launched an experimental project called "Sicilia fla" (Sicilia fla) by providing 75 million euros (50 for 2021 and 25 for 2022), which allowed four categories of Sicilians from August 5 to travel at discounted prices of 30% to all Italian and European destinations. The interested categories are students, off-site workers, Sicilian patients who go to cure themselves out of Sicily or seriously and seriously disabled, who will be able to buy tickets to fly from Palermo and Catania to all national and European destinations. This kind of project is essential to encourage the tourism sector, to relaunch the economy and above all to prevent the inhabitants of an island from feeling permanently isolated, as if the sea that divides us were insurmountable. [[Applause]] Sardinia is a region with a strong identity and a people attached to its roots and proud of the wild charm of the hinterland, wonderful beaches and its cultures of food and wine. However, although a Sardinian citizen is attached to his roots, the problem of depopulation becomes increasingly important on the island: this phenomenon, as the president of ANCI Sardegna Emiliano Deiana has pointed out, is a articulation of problems, from ageing to migration, to the lack of work and the absence of a business culture. For all these reasons, voting yes to the inclusion of the principle of insularity in the Constitution is indispensable in order to counter the flight of human capital and avoid the extinction of internal areas and the depopulation of small municipalities. The two points that form the principle of insularity (recognize the natural disadvantages resulting from it and introduce the measures necessary to ensure effective equality and real enjoyment of inalienable individual rights) are fundamental. The amendments to Article 119 of the Constitution that were introduced in 2001 relate to the inclusion of fiscal federalism, with the aim of creating a close link between spending decisions and direct levying and of facilitating the allocation of public resources in terms of goods and services more in line with the preferences of those who are called to bear the cost. There are several points of the principle of insularity that are essential and to mention: extension to all territorial authorities, not only to the Regions (as is currently foreseen), of the autonomy of income and expenditure, so that they enjoy autonomous resources and can fix and apply their own taxes and revenues; establishment of the Equalisation Fund, which is absent in the pre-existing constitutional text and is consistent with the logic of fiscal decentralisation, in which the territories are responsible for spending choices and decisions related to their financing; the intervention of support of territories where revenue is not adequate is a reason for less development, because measured by the lower fiscal capacity and not by the administrative inefficiency of the territorial body; additional state resources and special interventions in favour of those entities in order to pursue one of the following aims: promoting economic development, cohesion and social solidarity; removing economic and social imbalances; promoting the exercise of the rights of the person. As Professor Frosini stated at the hearing in the Commission, which I liked so much, specialties and islandity are two sides of the same coin. Insularity generates a further condition of specialty, because the regions we talk about are entirely surrounded by the sea and this affects trade, import-export and transport. In addition, being an islander indicates a deep sense of belonging, a strong identity and a particular respect for cultural, social and food and wine traditions. All of this should, however, be a point of merit, not an exclusion: the State must therefore recognize the serious disadvantage that comes from insularity and guarantee an effective equality, so as to allow us to live on our island without being isolated. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the people who have fought for this important project to come to Parliament, like Mr Frongia, who has left us with the project in our hearts. I would like to thank the promoting and scientific committee, coordinated by Dr Mongiu, as well as the special regional committee chaired by Mr Costa, all in support of this important project. In addition, allow me special thanks to Senators Borghesi, former chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Augussori and Romeo, as well as to our Parent Company for having understood the importance that this constitutional bill has for us islanders. For this reason too, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, I would like to say that we are more than in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u111	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, kind representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on this important measure concerning the recognition of the serious and permanent natural disadvantage resulting from the insularity, on which I declare that the Movimento 5 Stars will vote positively. The rapporteur reminded us that, with the adoption of this draft law, we are solving a constitutional problem, first and foremost, arising from the amendment adopted in 2001 to Title V of the Constitution. On the other hand - and this is what the citizen is most interested in - we place at the centre of our system the concept of island and islandity, with all the consequences that derive from it for the inhabitants in these areas of our country. In fact, under Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001 the national legislator deleted a paragraph of Article 119 of the Constitution which provided special contributions to enhance the Mezzogiorno and the islands. It was a rule defined by some constitutionalists of territorial social law, wanted by the Constituent to protect and encourage the areas of the country economically disadvantaged by its history and geographical location. The explicit reference to the Mezzogiorno and the Islands was consciously wanted by the Constituent, who thus wanted to constitutionalize the problem of how to enhance the civil, economic and social structure of those territories that not only represent a geographical area of the Country, but also - if not above all - a way of being of some million inhabitants. For those living in the Islands, over the years this arrangement has become an identity factor, which has often, however, turned into a damage and a disadvantage. The original constitutional rule could appear generic where it did not explicitly clarify the areas of the country that refer to the constitutional provision. Among the promoters of this legislative intervention Sicily and Sardinia, however, enjoyed a sort of valorization from the point of view both of recognition, and of constitutional protection, being an integral part of the geographical area of the Mezzogiorno, as well as Islands and Regions under special statute. Obviously, with the constitutional rule currently in force, all this still remains, but the constitutional coverage has failed, both as Regions of the Mezzogiorno and as Islands. We believe that this legal cover should be restored, also drawing on the comparative experience of other European countries and on the role of the regions in the European Union, where the issue of insularity is particularly felt. This vulnus, which has always been highly highlighted at the territorial level, has been realized through the draft law under consideration that - I want to emphasize - is a popular initiative and has seen the collection of hundreds of thousands of signatures, which also recognize the validity of this institute often inviso and little considered, but always exalted by the Movimento 5 Stars. The draft law has been submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, in addition to experts and scholars, has also heard representatives of the Regions directly involved, as well as representatives of the promoting committee, in the spirit of a loyal collaboration between the institutional levels of the Republic, which has made our work efficient and effective. This has led to the adoption of the standard that has already been set out. The inclusion of a provision with this content makes it possible to have a much more explicit constitutional parameter than the one currently in force (Article 119 of the Constitution) and, therefore, to ensure greater protection for rights that must be guaranteed in the same way as all citizens, including those residing in the Islands, removing the disadvantages resulting from insularity. So I come to tell you about the real Gordian knot that is the basis of this situation and that explains the legislative intervention that was also supported by the Movimento 5 Stars. The condition of insularity affects all aspects of the daily life of citizens who live or work there. From opening up a company, to the production of goods, to transport, to travel, to electricity or gas: everything has a higher cost and a greater difficulty than any other region of Italy. The condition of insularity and overcoming its disadvantages are not limited to the problem of territorial continuity alone, but are much more extensive and complex and affect all economic and social aspects, ranging from non-development to infrastructure deficits. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u112	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u113	Please, Senator Mantovani. MANTOVANI (M5S). Colleagues and colleagues, insularity is a situation that produces delays in social and economic development and makes islanders citizens with reduced and weakened rights compared to the citizens of the mainland. No other Italian Region suffers the same structural disadvantage due to insularity and peripherality, which significantly affects the opportunity of inhabitants and workers. With this bill we not only want to put a stop to this condition, but we also want to make the legislator aware of taking virtuous legislative behaviors and choices and, therefore, promotional rules for the structural development of the islands and for the island specialty. At the end of this speech, I think it is necessary to proceed quickly to the adoption of this rule in the hope that the process will soon be completed in the Chamber and, therefore, become the law of the State. Let us, therefore, give constitutional dignity to the islands in order to recognize all the rights of our fellow citizens in whatever part of the country they may be. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u114	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the draft constitutional law, composed of only Article 1, in the text amended as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission, with the following title: Amendment to Article 119 of the Constitution concerning the recognition of the peculiarities of the Islands and the overcoming of the disadvantages of insularity. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in first resolution. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u117	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to make a proposal to the House to reverse the agenda. Now we will have to move to the point that provides for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 121 of 2020 which, as we know, is not yet ready. At this point we would propose to move to the discussion of the constitutional bill no. 83-212-938-1203-1532-1627-1632-2160-B for the amendment of Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution and immediately after insert also the so-called saving bill and postpone the examination of the decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u118	Senator De Petris, having also been aware of the times of the Assembly, I would ask if you were in favour of putting to the vote the reverse of the agenda with regard to the constitutional bill, since the Conference of the Leaders is convened at 16.30. I ask if you do not change your proposal too much. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). President, all right. The proposal I made was complete for the organization of our work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I was clear about your intent.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u121	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we are not in favour of this request for a reversal and, indeed, we would have proposed that the debate on constitutional reform should be postponed at least until tomorrow morning in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The proposal that we would have formalized in the Capigroup is to proceed tomorrow - I imagine - to the vote on the confidence already announced on the decree transports and also of the declarations on the third reading of the constitutional reform, that they could find enough time tomorrow morning. There is a need on the part of our Group to go further in the matter at third reading. This is a very sensitive and important issue. We are therefore absolutely against it. We would prefer to discuss the so-called sea-saving law and then leave it to the Conference of Leaders to decide on such delicate issues, without using the strength of the muscles and numbers in this House, to change these issues at the pleasure of the majority, which have been debated for a long time at the Conference of Leaders and which cannot be modified at the last minute by decision of a part of the Senate. And since we have always had a responsible attitude to the prevailing power of the majority, we ask that these decisions not be communicated to the only force of opposition at the last moment, because it is not a way of proceeding, it is neither courteous nor respectful of the role of the opposition, which alone must face, with twenty senators, all the arguments that are put to the attention of the majority, without considering that there is yet another decree-law on which the umpteenth confidence will be placed. If the Commission responsible for assessing and examining the transport decree is late, the fault is not with the opposition, but with the majority, which once again arrives at the last minute before the expiry of the decree. So let us continue with the agenda as planned and let the Conference of Leaders, which will meet in about three hours' time, decide how to proceed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u122	Senator Ciriani, your point of view is obviously clear, as it is clear that there is a different proposal, which will be put to the vote by show of hands. I shall put to the vote the proposal that the agenda be reversed, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u125	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to ask for a two-hour sitting to be suspended in order to allow a meeting of the Group of the Brothers of Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciriani, let's see if the scheme that the presidency had can... CIRIANI (FdI). I made a speech on the order of business and asked for a two-hour suspension to allow a meeting of the Group of Brothers of Italy, which is conducive to the expression of our vote on the draft Constitutional Law on the protection of the environment. Is that clear enough?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u126	It's very clear, Senator Ciriani, and I was answering her. Since it is the Presidency that directs the work of this House, you will now listen as clearly to the President's proposal, which is to start with the progress of the report, and then suspend the work of this House and resume it at 3 p.m., which seemed to me that it could also meet the needs that you represented me. That doesn't sound like a force. Of course, this Presidency has the task of guaranteeing all parties. So if there's nothing to stand in your way, I'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u127	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. At the Conference of the Leaders we voted in favour and it is not acceptable for the order of business to be changed suddenly, without involving the opposition forces in any way, who are not here to do the letterheads, nor the spectators, but are trying to do their job. [[Applause]] And, in order to do their job, they must have time to examine the measures. If the third reading of the constitutional bill is so urgent and important for you, so is it for us. But, since we have a thousand open fronts, being the only opposition group and having to ensure that the voice of the opposition is present on all the measures, we simply ask that we be able to exercise our right-to-obligation to examine the measures at an appropriate time. A change in the timetable on such an important issue as the third reading of a reform of the Constitution should be addressed more seriously. That is our point of view. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u128	President Ciriani, the whole organization of the Assembly's work has as a guiding principle exactly the seriousness that means the possibility for all senators to deepen all the topics, including the one concerning the decree, in order to allow the Commission to work best. My proposal seemed to meet one of your needs. [[Comments.]] President Ciriani, you must have the patience to listen to what the Presidency says. Since the Presidency guarantees first of all the opposition in this House, I am suspending the sitting until 3 p.m. at the moment. (The sitting was suspended at 1.11 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u129	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 83-212-938-1203-1532-1627-1632-2160-B, which was first approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative constitutional bill of Senators De Petris and Nugnes; De Petris and others; Collina and others; Gallone; L'Abbate; Bonino; Calderoli and others; approved, without amendment, in first resolution, by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I also warn that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, in second resolution, the constitutional bill will be approved if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The rapporteur, Senator Maiorino, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u130	Mr President, the draft Constitutional Act introduces the principle of protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems into the text of the Constitution and gives the law of the State protection of animals. I note that the measure was approved in first resolution by the Senate on 9 June 2021 and by the House on 12 October. I recall that, since no changes have been made to the work done at first reading in the Senate, it is now possible to proceed quickly to the second resolution required by Article 138 of the Constitution, which does not provide for the possibility of making amendments, but requires a qualified majority for approval. We therefore have the possibility of a fast and supported by a broad parliamentary consensus for a timely amendment of our Constitution, which goes to include for the first time in what are the fundamental principles, namely those that most of all form the identity of a country, the protection of a right so far only implicitly recognized and guaranteed, that is, the right of all citizens to claim that the Republic protects, by every means at its disposal, the environment, biodiversity, ecosystems, and individuals the best ways for the protection of animals, the treatment of which - I would like to remind you - has a very important impact on the environment and on health. Once approved, this draft law will introduce the first constitutional revision to the fundamental principles and the first amendment to the provisions on the so-called Economic Constitution, giving Article 41 a significant innovation that strengthens the solidarity and social function of private enterprise and economic initiative. Colleagues, the vote in this House comes at the very hours of the 26th United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which, unfortunately, we must remember, risks once again disappointing the expectations of millions of young people who are very aware of the problems that the world faces, much more than we sometimes seem to imagine, and arrives a few hours after the conclusion of the G20, which also failed to bring together the greats of the Earth on the date for the zero emissions of 2050. Yet, from this House comes a sign of vision and concreteness, what we are giving today. In fact, we are going to give our Constitution, which guides us every day, a renewed spirit of modernity and service to the collective cause, not only Italian. We can say that with the approval of this proposal to amend the Constitution, politics and institutions intercept and pay attention to what in the history of German philosophy is called Zeitgeist, the spirit of time, and place a firm point for our country, from which we can no longer go back. With regard to the course of the examination in the first resolution, I recall that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate carried out, starting from October 2019, a long and thorough investigation, which allowed to find a synthesis shared between eight different proposals, most of which presented and combined during the examination. The text approved by the Senate and the Chamber consists of 3 articles, which intervene on Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution. In particular, Article 1, adding a paragraph to Article 9 of the Constitution, gives the Republic protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems, with a reference expressed to the interest of future generations. It also introduces a state law reserve governing the ways and forms of animal protection. In Article 2, with an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution, it is established that private economic initiative cannot be carried out at the expense of health and the environment, by imposing these two limits on those already in force, namely security, freedom and human dignity. A further amendment involves the third paragraph of Article 41, while reserving to the law the possibility to direct and coordinate economic activity, both public and private, not only for social purposes, but also for environmental purposes. Finally, during the discussion in the Assembly of the Senate, Article 3 was added which provides for a safeguard clause for special autonomy with reference to the Law on the Protection of Animals. I conclude by saying that this is an extremely important step and for once we can and must be proud of the great work of conciliation carried out, for which I warmly thank all my colleagues and colleagues in the majority and also in opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u131	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to cross the line of the third of four parliamentary stages towards the fundamental integration of environmental and animal protection into the fundamental principles of our Constitution, an extraordinary goal which must not be hindered in the last reading in the House. Having said that, it is also important to remember that all the major European States in their Constitutions have environmental protection provisions, which are also present in the main European treaties. In some cases they are present from the origin of the Constitutions, while in others they were inserted later. The industrial progress of the last few centuries has caused the climate crisis that is causing devastating environmental disasters today: hurricanes, floods, forest fires, melting of glaciers, temperatures beyond any record. We can no longer escape our responsibilities. There are illustrious scientific studies that remind us of what could happen in the coming decades, not in the next millennia: Venice could end up underwater by the end of the century; already today in some areas of Pakistan and the Arab Emirates temperatures have been reached considered incompatible with human survival. Within fifty years 3 billion people will live as they live today in the Sahara Desert and it is estimated that by 2050 about 250 million people will migrate due to climate change causes; 250 million migrants, other than the few thousand or tens of thousands coming from Libya today. [[Applause]] The last seven years have been the hottest ever recorded and our planet is moving towards an unknown and dangerous future for the next generations. Let us now come to the causes of this climate change and how important it is for this country to start immediately to play its part, realizing the new constitutional principle of protecting the environment, biodiversity, ecosystems and even animals, precisely because the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity are objectives that can only be achieved through the protection of animal species. The environmental impact of intensive farms is devastating: we must have the courage to admit it. According to the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), intensive farms produce 14.5 percent of total greenhouse gases and are the cause of 75 percent of emerging diseases (many animals housed in restricted spaces are the ideal environment for virus proliferation), and they also occupy about 20 percent of the land emerged as pasture and 40 percent of the land cultivated for feed production. The world's first twenty livestock farms are responsible for more greenhouse gas emissions than they produce on their own countries such as Germany, France or the United Kingdom. In Brazil, which is the world's largest exporter of beef, intensive farms and industrial slaughterhouses are responsible for over 80% of the deforestation of the green lung of the Amazon Forest. Also for this reason let us say that I found yesterday's hug between President Bolsonaro and a politician who is part of the majority of this Government shameful. [[Applause]] In Italy, Mr President, 76 percent of the animals are kept in cages for a total of 45 million: in Brescia there are more pigs than people. These 45 million animals produce greenhouse gases and consume the resources of the territory, including tons of drinking water. We are the seventeenth country in Europe for virtuous breeding; in the first places, however, unlike us, there are countries like Sweden and Germany, with only 12 and 15 percent of animals bred in cages. We must have the courage to move meat and meat production to a more sustainable food production for the planet. [[Applause]] In the much desired ecological transition, strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars, and in part still unfortunately remained only on paper, there are many of the solutions to the degradation of our planet. I am thinking of the environmentalization of buildings with the superbonus to 110% to reduce also the use of heating inside the homes that, let's remember, today produces and is responsible for 38 percent of greenhouse gases; the protection and increase of green areas to combat the unsavory cementification produced in recent years; the production of renewable energies to reduce the combustion of coal, oil and gas, especially and also for the transport system. In this regard, for the transport system, unfortunately it was not a good image nor a good example to see the greats of the Earth at the G20 not to use an electric machine [[Applause]] Similarly, it was embarrassing not to see today the special envoy for climate change, which would have been essential in these days and hours at COP26 in Glasgow. It is positive, however, always in Glasgow, the more necessary project than ever to plant 1,000 billion trees by 2030, especially if they increase the green areas in the cities making them more beautiful and clean and contrasting the consumption of soil. At the COP26 conference, it was also pointed out that China is the main responsible for CO2 emissions - we all agree on that - with the United States and the European Union well spaced. However, we must also look at these numbers and, as I said at the beginning of this speech, it is a mistake to continue to go on with this work of de-responsibility, because we must also remember that China has almost 1.5 billion people, while the United States 300 million and the per capita share of CO2 of every Chinese citizen is almost half that of an American citizen. So we can no longer hide behind certain numbers and a certain narrative. [[Applause]] Moreover, for the series we do not hide the responsibilities, we have a historical responsibility: our industrial revolution has led us to produce in the last century and a half a quantity of greenhouse gases four times that of China. We are talking about 200 billion tonnes of China's CO2 against 900 billion in OECD countries. Now we must start to set an example, and that is the way, accompanying the emerging economic giants to the green revolution. They too, of course, have their responsibilities, but they must also be accompanied and helped by Western countries. The 100 billion target, which has so much been mentioned, which has not yet been implemented because it has been postponed to 2023, is heading precisely this way. The basis for this is a general and, above all, political responsibility for the ecological transition. But every single citizen can also play their part from the very beginning because today, unlike yesterday, we have a whole series of scientific knowledge that we did not have before. The individual citizen can start consuming less meat and more vegetable foods, using sustainable means and improving the environmentalisation of their homes. We politicians, however, can no longer hide our heads in the sand and we must start building the foundations to ensure a future for our generations. I am talking about the future and I am not saying better because today we have the scientific certainty that if we go on like this, with this damage and this climate crisis, it will not be possible to have a better future for the next generations because there will be no future for humanity. [[Applause]] I therefore believe, Mr President, that we need to give an important signal. Today we are doing something important and certainly fundamental, but from tomorrow we need concrete actions that we all need to carry out together, the States, but also the individual citizens. Only in this way, President, will we be able to save the planet Earth and with it the future of all humanity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u133	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u134	Mr President, the draft law before us amending Article 9 of the Constitution gives the Republic the protection of the environment and the ecosystem, the protection of biodiversity and animals, the promotion of sustainable development with an express reference to the interests of future generations. It makes it clear as a legal concept and as a civil law, by including it as one of the fundamental principles of the Constitutional Charter, the protection of the environment which until now has been interpreted as a reference to health protection. For some years now our planet has been sending clear signals of the malaise of the environment, asking to change course to our policies, but it still does not seem clear to everyone the extent of the climate emergency that we are going through. Augusta, a city in which I reside, in the Province of Syracuse, as other areas of south-eastern Sicily has experienced dramatic hours for the passage of the cyclone Apollo, which was the most serious and dangerous expression of the bad weather of recent days and which has caused loss of human lives and considerable material damage. These extreme weather events are no longer occasional and sporadic, but are destined to occur more frequently due to the effect of the warming of the atmosphere caused by pollution. Furthermore, pollutant emissions are only one aspect of environmental degradation, together with soil and subsoil pollution, hydrogeological failure, damage caused by intensive agriculture and the progressive disappearance of flora and fauna. Political decision-makers need to make a more concrete effort to reduce environmental pollution and I hope that, as Mr Maiorino has already said, the Cop26 in Glasgow will find more courage and synergy between the nations and more stringent agreements can be reached to reduce climate emissions. It is true, as was said yesterday, that Europe is only responsible for 8-9 percent of emissions into the atmosphere, but it is equally true, as Mr Toninelli rightly said just now, that Europe and the United States began first to pollute the planet, burning billions of tons of fossil fuels. They alone are responsible for more than 50% of the global emissions of all time. They started first, they have a duty to be the first to start reducing and quitting. It is also time to stop being a planet "blah-blah-blah-blah-blah," as Greta Thunberg says, and to move to action all together, because there is no health of men without the health of the environment in which they live. [[Applause]] There is no well-being of men in an environment that is not healthy. Aware of the close correlation between environmental quality and human health, as members of the Senate Health Commission, we have proposed the inclusion in Mission 6 of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience of Measures aimed at achieving specific and appropriate occupational health training related to environmental pollution and to establish within the departments of prevention of health companies, multidisciplinary working units dedicated to environmental health. For this reason we pay particular attention to the draft law on health, environment and climate, provided for in the C1 component of Mission 6 of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which the Government will present to the Chambers by the middle of next year, defining a health policy with a one-health approach, that is, the unique health of men, animals and the environments in which they live. The policy must indicate the guidelines on which economic development must move. The present draft law, noting also Article 41 of our Constitutional Charter, reserves to the law the possibility of directing and coordinating public and private economic activity, not only for social but also environmental purposes; it stipulates that private economic initiative cannot be carried out at the expense of health and the environment, pressing these two limits to those already in force, namely security, freedom and human dignity. This means that the private economic initiative is free, but it cannot be carried out without limits in the sole pursuit of the aims of the profit of the few. It is necessary to look to the future with the eyes of our children and grandchildren. The protection of the environment and the ecosystem must be implemented in the interests of future generations. It is a generational pact that must be constantly renewed and strengthened. Every wrong action we do today is a wrong that we do to future generations, it is a subtraction of their rights. With the hope that we can really change course, because we do not have a planet B, I conclude my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u135	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u136	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft constitutional law at third reading is intended to amend Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution by introducing environmental and biodiversity protection into the basic law of the State, and by delegating the ordinary legislator to enact animal protection rules. Our Constitution was the first in the world to provide for the protection of cultural, historical, artistic and landscape heritage, expressing the strong vocation of the Italian State to preserve historical memory and its treasures. This is evident because Article 9 of our Constitution is included in the part relating to the so-called fundamental principles, values that cannot be altered at the basis of the republican order. On the other hand, more attention was devoted to environmental protection in the early 1980s. These issues have long been at the heart of the national and Community political debate, thanks also to the awareness of the younger generations, who have exercised and continue to exert forms of pressure towards the institutions. [[Brusio.]] I'd like to know if I'm not feeling well.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u137	You're welcome, Senator. Not everyone has made it clear that, sometimes, when there are few people in this House, it is even more disturbing when we talk in the background.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u138	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). One of the first commitments that the President of the Council Draghi asked Parliament was precisely to include environmental protection and biodiversity in the Constitution, and Parliament responded promptly, while not sacrificing the deepening of the matter. In fact, thanks to the work carried out at first reading in this area of Parliament and thanks to the commitment of the rapporteur and the wise conduct of the first Commission by President Parrini, it was helped first to draw up a single text of the various proposals on this subject and then to find a reasonable summary when it seemed that the text could only be adopted by a majority. The work has been so skilful, in-depth and formed by the contribution of all the Groups that the House has actually only taken note of it. I believe that having reached this goal, in conjunction with the Roman forum of the G20 and the meeting of the Cop26 in Glasgow, it has represented plastically how our country is committed to improving the environmental conditions in order to deliver to the new generations a more livable country, remedying the distortions and the unregulated exploitation of our territory. It is true, as some have said, that in our Constitution the protection of health and the environment is already present, even if in implicit form, as it constitutes one of the prerequisites of human health protected by Article 32; but having introduced it expressly has avoided having to always turn to constitutional jurisprudence and merit in the presence of interpretative contrasts. The general protection of the ecosystem and biodiversity, referred to in the third paragraph of Article 9, is also not new. In fact, the amending reform of Article 117 of the Constitution introduced, in point (s), the provision of protection of the environment and the ecosystem among the subjects reserved for the exclusive legislative power of the State, and attributed to the concurrent legislation the valorization of environmental goods, with the consequence that the State can dictate uniform standards of protection over the entire national territory, also incident on the regional legislative competences. The novelty is the inclusion of animals among the objects of constitutional protection. Here there has been a work of synthesis, which has allowed not to remove the great consensus on this rule: it has been established, in fact, that it will be the ordinary legislator to regulate ways and forms of protection of animals. For the truth, there is to be said that the ordinary legislator has already produced a vast legislation to protect animals, until introducing in the penal code a title IX- bis dedicated to crimes against the feeling for animals (see Law No. 189 of 2004). Article 41 introduces the Economic Constitution, i.e. those rules governing economic activity, according to a conciliatory presupposition of the constituent assembly which, on the one hand, combines the liberal spirit by recognizing the freedom of economic initiative and, on the other hand, the socialist idea of a planned economy geared towards promoting social progress. The reform of Article 41 introduces two new limits compared to those already existing within which private economic initiative can be carried out. In addition to not having to harm safety, freedom and human dignity, it must not harm health or the environment either. It is clear, with this formulation, that our country is irreversibly moving towards an ecological transition of economic activities. This means that, having taken this step, we will have to reflect on what concrete direction to take in order to make this transition effective. Global warming, which has risen exponentially in recent years, is the result of the exploitation of fossil materials and oil. We need to decide how to replace these sources of polluting energy with clean energy. Wind and photovoltaics are certainly good, even if it will be necessary to carry out a campaign to raise public awareness. Let me give you a concrete example of what we are talking about: in my territory, in Brindisi, we are talking about offshore wind farms, but already associations and even some politicians are preparing to raise walls for this initiative. In Taranto, for Ilva, time has expired and alternative energy solutions must be thought immediately. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to tackle the issue of nuclear power without prejudice or taboo, because it is not possible that all the risks of this energy source fall on Italy, for the power stations on the border with our territory, and no benefit. But all this is part of the near future. Today we are content to set a milestone in the protection of the environment, health and biodiversity. Therefore, I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group's constitutional amendments under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u139	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u140	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate is very important because it leads us to change our fundamental Charter. It is clear that when we take responsibility for intervening on the Constitution we assume a burden that will have an important impact on our future life, but also and especially on that of future generations. The procedure for amending the Constitution, provided for in Article 138, provides for the need for a double passage in each House at a distance of not less than three months and with the second approval by an absolute majority of the members of both branches of Parliament. Today's is the second stage in the Senate, after last June's. The inquiry was started in 2019, with 8 draft laws presented and, therefore, with the need to integrate them in order to arrive at a single and shared text. This has implicitly shown how - rightly and legitimately - this issue is felt by all of us. The final text provides for the amendment of Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution. Article 9 regulates inviolable rights. Ours is a civil law system, i.e. based not on the binding precedent, but on the law. Therefore, one of the most important criteria of interpretation of the rule is to seek the intention of the legislator. Therefore, in interpreting the value and scope of what we are going to include in Article 9 on the protection of the environment by a judge, it should be as important as we say here today. For this reason, I was shocked - I wanted to say puzzled, but the term would not be relevant, nor reasonable - by the intervention of two colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, Senators Toninelli and Pisani, who essentially constituted an attack on our country system, our history, our culture, our traditions and our economy. [[Applause]] 115,000 livestock farms were questioned by a personal consideration, not based on objective data. Ispra (and not already the League or Senator Pazzaglini) testifies that they are virtuous companies. Putting in place our system of excellences that rewards us and values us all over the world that recognizes us, for our productions, as a state-of-the-art country is, in my opinion, reckless and not just irresponsible. Coming to the changes under consideration, on which there is fortunately the sharing of all, the first is Article 9 of the Constitution, whose new wording provides for the protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems. I have no doubt about that. I live and have been mayor of a municipality seat of a national park, i.e. of an area recognized as of value. However, I would like to point out that the areas become of value not because a norm makes them such, but after the symbiosis between man and territory and the custody and maintenance of the natural environment by our ancestors give it to us and transmit it as worthy of such recognition, demonstrating the fact that men and not the norm are the ones who make the environment. [[Applause.]] 15.41 p.m. (Following Crazy People). Therefore, these guardians of the environment must be given their role and should be stimulated more and more. We do not protect the environment only by amending the Constitution; we do so by demonstrating that we can have a different relationship with it. So, we take people and schools to national parks. [[Applause]] It's okay to change the laws, but nothing is worth taking a boy to a National Park and showing him that the natural environment still exists and that it can be maintained and enhanced by a virtuous behavior. Our intention is to introduce a standard to educate people, to recognize a value; we are not convinced that only for this we will save our natural environment. The three articles of the draft law also amend Article 41, as well as Article 9, which I want to read in its entirety because, in my opinion, it contains a second fundamental element when it makes express reference to the protection of the interests of future generations. In my opinion, this is important because our intention is not to mummify everything as some previous interventions might misunderstand. Our goal, however, is to ensure that we can get to leave our children and our heirs a better environment than we have found. This is achieved by not abandoning everything to carelessness and degradation, but by developing the symbiosis that over the centuries has meant that our most valuable areas are also those where the care of the territory has been most important. I don't just want to talk about my region. I speak of Liguria, an example known all over the world, a beautiful region, where the presence of human intervention is evident everywhere. Who does not remain enchanted in front of the terraces built to ensure that man can live in symbiosis with those territories? I challenge anyone to say that it was invasive interventions that damaged the value or value of those territories. The three articles amend not only Article 9 of the Constitution, which is important to me because it is included among the first twelve, which contain inviolable rights, but also Article 41, the economic initiative of private individuals cannot take place in harm to the environment and health. This is also a very important forecast, even if in me it generates some bitterness because these modifications incredibly for a strange irony of destiny we go to introduce after a G20 and a COP26 that have been very disappointing from this point of view, because the commitments have been generic and especially because the paradox that has been created is that the virtuous countries tend to become it more and more - between these I put Italy and Europe because we do not forget that, for example, among the 120 rivers that place more plastic in the ocean only one is European - and the less virtuous countries, aiming to procrastinate more and more their commitments, tend to become it less and less. This, however, also becomes an economic suicide because it is evident that these limitations, probably in some cases just and legitimate, are detrimental to the economy. The resulting prejudice means that a system like the Italian one, already compromised by membership of a single monetary system that strengthened the already stronger economies and weakened those which, unfortunately, like ours, were weaker, would be further affected. It is therefore essential that environmental protection goes hand in hand with economic development and sustainability, which must be factual and not just in words. In my opinion, the most obvious demonstration of this is in the example always made by my colleague who spoke before me. He complained about the finding - I have not found it but I have no reason to doubt that it is so - that none of the greats of the earth arrived at the G20 on board an electric machine. I would remind my colleagues that, when it comes to the emission of climatic gases (not necessarily polluting), the production of a kilowatt of storage capacity for a battery brings 176 kilograms of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Therefore, producing a machine powered by electricity means starting from a more than 17.5 tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than is necessary for the production of a machine powered by a thermal motor. I am not saying that we need to stimulate that production, but since there are hundreds of millions of vehicles in circulation anyway and because it is shown that the production of biofuel could lead to the same desired result with electric mobility, fueling the engines already existing with biofuels, let us ensure that environmental protection is factual and not only contained in the rules, because - as I said before - it would unfortunately become political and economic suicide. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u141	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u142	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, our planet is certainly in crisis. It is now clear that our environment is degraded and we are aware of it. That is why we have our COP26, these global summits in which all Heads of State should participate. I've been there two years at COP and every time I come back a little disappointed, because I think I agree with what Greta told us: practically the leaders are out, the kids are left out and they don't come in. In fact, they are the leaders, because this Earth no longer belongs to us, but belongs to our children, to our children, to those who will come. [[Applause]] And we leave them out and we heads of state are there to talk. I do not want to discuss the type of car, but in the end, even if we try to make treaties and talk about sustainable finance, the results achieved are always few. I'm not saying they're completely disappointing, but there's no more time. We need something more, we need to move on. Surely the positive news I have learned is this $12 billion of public funds that will be allocated to restore forests (fortunately). However, I would like to remind you that an agreement of this kind has already been reached and I do not think that things have gone well in recent years. 7.2 billion private investment will also be added. We talk, we talk, but the facts unfortunately tell us something else. It is right what we are finally bringing to Parliament today, namely that the environment should be established. It is right first of all because we Italians have decided to do something that is not strange; out of 193 constitutions, 149 of them already carry the principles and values of the protection of the environment and animals. We're not, we're a little late. So it is right that we too should be consistent with those who may have been able to do something better and have already understood that this is the right way. We of the Movimento 5 Stars have understood this with our Ministry of the ecological transition, which I must say is working very well, because it is carrying out a series of implementing decrees. There are already clear plans, there are 600 million for the circular economy flagship projects, which in the end are projects to reduce CO2 indirectly. Like all other projects: ecobonus, for example, what does it do? It also reduces CO2 in a direct way, because it acts on our homes, reducing energy consumption. This is something that we should protect: it is true that there are renewables, but it is also true that we must reduce waste of energy and of matter. In this regard, I have heard from my colleague about some data on cars. Before I came here, my job was to do environmental certifications, so environmental impact assessments. All literature is currently saying that the main problem of CO2 in the atmosphere is fossil fuels. Speaking to the students, I told them that already three or four years ago a magazine like "Nature" said that, in order to avoid the 2-degree increase in the temperature of the atmosphere, we would have to leave the coal currently existing in the subsoil. Instead, we continued to extract it. I'm talking about Nature, I'm talking about all the scientific literature that tells us that we absolutely have to eliminate everything that is based on coal, because that's where CO comes from. I can understand methane as a transition and I say that because the calorific value currently developed by renewable sources does not make it; let us be careful, however, because it is a transition and "money" and public investment - then I will talk about the private ones - of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan must be on renewables. In our own market, which is very careful because it also does business, private investments are going on renewables because it is understood that that is the future. Returning to the measure we are discussing here today, we want to put environmental protection, biodiversity and ecosystems in the interests of future generations in the Constitution. That is what we want to write. In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction with this bill, which has seen, in addition to my initiative, that of Mr Perilli. Certainly a commendable work has been done, not only by the 5 Star Movimento political group, but really by the whole of Parliament. This is very important because there will be no future if we do not begin to understand that we must work together. I was impressed when last year I listened to the Head of State of the Fiji Islands, one of those archipelagos that, if it continues to increase the sea level, will no longer exist. Well, that Head of State, who was not so concerned about the economic discourse, but about the life of its islands, continued to speak in a lively way about multilateralism and cooperation. This is the future, at local level, in our Parliament, but also at world level. "Green New Deal" is nothing but this, a green pact with all nations: either we go forward together or our children, who are the children of all in this world, of every nation, will have no future. The same goes for the economic model that, as I keep repeating to my students, there will be no tomorrow, because the critical capital is the natural one. So either we protect renewable and non-renewable resources, or we will not have an economy tomorrow. There was a professor talking about decreasing returns. I tell you what it means: if the price of oil and energy continues to rise, the return of what we are going to achieve from the processing of a product will always be decreasing and this is more true when we talk about agriculture. Oil-based agriculture will continue to have very high prices. What does all this mean? It means untiring agriculture from oil, it means untiring ourselves from the wrong actions that this model has put in place. It is not that we did all this because we were unconscious as economists; perhaps we did not realize that there is a complexity and that the nature and ecology system is connected to the economic system, which is connected to the social system. Environmental degradation is also social degradation and we have experienced it in recent years with the Covid: it's all connected. I thank you, therefore, for what has been done in Parliament and for the measure that we are about to adopt, but I really urge you to leave aside for a moment the usual political begas there, really going in the same direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u143	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that during the second vote on this important constitutional bill it is essential to evaluate what has happened in the meantime, the reactions, comments and assessments that the adoption at first reading has generated and what debate has taken place in civil society on the work of Parliament. This allows us, on the one hand, to strengthen our positive judgment for this result, which is really at hand, on the other hand, also to give clarifications that can disassemble some criticisms that frankly did not seem very acceptable to me. On the epochal value of this reform I think that none of us have any doubts. All the other major European countries have for many years in their Constitutional Charter legislation similar to what we are going to introduce into ours, in some cases for many decades or since the beginning of their constitutional regime. Today in Italy, doing what we are about to do, we fill a great gap and therefore we do an act of justice and equity, not only towards the present society, but also for future generations. We do this by taking up the work done for the first time in Italy by the Bicameral Commission for Constitutional Reforms, Bozzi, in 1983, therefore thirty-eight years ago. For so many decades it has been just a speech, a chat, a proposal that has always remained on paper, but it finally becomes a reality today. In recent weeks we have seen that the environmental issue is among the most important, perhaps the most important, even in international forums and in major global summits, not only in national discussions. I quote two opposing criticisms, which in recent weeks have been addressed to me when I tried to stress the great importance of the work we had done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the help of all the people who have worked on this measure. The first of these criticisms argues that what we have done is not good, because it undermines the reformability of the first 11 articles of the Constitution, on the fundamental principles. The second criticism is opposed and argues that there is no need to amend Article 9 and the other rules of the Constitution, because the environment can already be adequately protected even by the existing Constitution, on the basis of the interpretations that the Constitutional Court has already given of the existing rules. It is, in my view, two wrong criticisms. As far as the first is concerned, I remember that we are not amending the first part of the Constitution, creating a danger. In fact, it is now clear, by a consolidated view also of the Constitutional Court, that the first articles of our Constitution, on fundamental principles, are unchangeable in the sense that the goods and values protected by those articles cannot be reduced and the area of protection cannot be reduced. But if we add values and protected goods, that part of our Constitution can also be adapted to the times and updated: I wonder why not. I believe that we have done something very positive, consistent with the spirit of the constituent's work, which, of course, was affected by the needs, values and problems that characterized that period of our history and that were very different from those that characterize the current period of our history. Even the second criticism does not seem to me to be founded, because in all European countries we have special constitutional protection. We need to have a constitutional shield to truly protect the environment and ecosystems, to do what is necessary to balance development. In this protection there is nothing anti-developer and nothing superfluous or merely rhetorical. I repeat that, in my personal opinion and in the view of the Democratic Party, we are faced with a change of time, of justice and fairness, and also with a good result of method, because in the Commission, through a fruitful dialogue between the various political groups, through a constant exchange of ideas and also through a mutual willingness to question its own stakes, we have managed to build a result of important unity, on a change that we believe is historical. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u145	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u146	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u147	Mr President, I would just like once again to thank all my colleagues and colleagues in the majority and opposition who have helped to achieve the result, namely this small, timely constitutional change of the fundamental principles of our Charter, by doing so - as has just been said - to revitalize it from the very point of view of the spirit of time and to meet the increasingly pressing needs of future generations. Thank you all so much again.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u148	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u151	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with the constitutional changes that we are going to approve in Parliament today we are going to make a fundamental step, a historic step because it is the first time - as has already been said - that we are going to change - that we are going to integrate, in fact, specifically - the part of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, in particular Article 9. In fact, this is the fourth time that we have changed the first part of the Constitution and this is the first time that we have changed the part about economic relations, because - as we know - the amendment also affects Article 41. In particular, fundamental principles such as the protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems are introduced; reference is made - and this is a very important aspect - to future generations; a state law reserve is introduced with regard to the discipline of the ways and forms of animal protection. Article 41 introduces some important aspects with regard to the protection of free private initiative, namely that it must not create harm to health and the environment, in addition to the already foreseen safety, freedom and human dignity, and must be addressed for social and environmental purposes. We know there was a vacuum in our constitution. And the fact that in our system we do not see a complete constitutional status of the environment should not be charged to the constituent Fathers. We know well that our Constitution is born in the aftermath of a destructive conflict, which has seen our country suffer, the war. It was certainly not the central theme of the reconstruction of Italy, the inclusion of environmental protection in the basic constitutional principles. On the other hand, we must consider the fact that the responsibility for this failure to incorporate into the Constitution in subsequent years is mainly due to the inability of the legal order to complete a systematic reform of the constitutional system, with which it should have been possible to give the environment a value that has always proved more necessary and urgent. The values that are incorporated in the Constitution are now an integral part of our society and can no longer be considered secondary, as is confirmed by the existing European norms and by the constant jurisprudence in place. To ensure that the Republic protects the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems is a sign of maturity and legal consciousness. The world is saved, the future is built if we recognize shared rights; the protection of ecosystems can only be achieved through the protection of animal species. It is therefore a historic step in the interest of future generations and also in order to make that ecological transition, included in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, through the European funds, actions and concrete policies that we will have to be able to put into place. The Constitutional Court has intervened several times on the subject of the environment in the past decades, identifying the need to provide specific legal institutions for the protection of the environment. We recall a 1985 judgment which gave an extensive interpretation of the concept of landscape, the one in the Constitution since its existence. That extensive interpretation deserves to be taken into account because it had the ability to intercept the cultural and institutional evolution that has characterized the Italian system over the years. The broad notion of landscape as a form of the country has certainly built an element, or rather a moment of environmental protection, but it has not been able to exhaust it, that is, it has not been able to solve the problem of the constitutional status of the environment. And it could not solve the issue of the lack of the environment within the Constitution the modification of Title V, which introduced in 2001 the theme of the environment into the Constitution in an important way, but above all and only in the context of a question related to legislative power. The famous change to Title V introduced a division of competences between the State and the Regions on the discipline of environmental issues, but alone could not be enough to represent, precisely, the attribution of constitutional status to the theme of the environment. It was therefore necessary - and this is a fundamental aspect - to make an effort and work which was first produced in the Commission and then in this House showed a common sensitivity on the part of the political forces. I believe that there has been a strong push on the part of some political forces, who have presented important draft laws, starting from the Movimento 5 Stars with Senator Maiorino, to which it must be recognized a remarkable commitment. We cannot accept the effort made in the Commission, even with the proposal that had already been put forward at the beginning of the legislature by Senator De Petris. It was the effort of all political forces to introduce corrections to those draft laws, i.e. to provide for conditions that could guarantee a broad consensus. I believe that the result has been positive: today we approve of a constitutional change that is a fundamental step, a historical event because of the scope I highlighted in the introduction of my reasoning and it is a signal that goes above all in the direction of ensuring a better world for future generations. Our effort had to be to put a point in front of so many years of battles, which then did not see the possibility of realizing the introduction of the environmental theme into the Constitution. There have been many attempts - as was mentioned earlier - from the Bozzi Commission, but also from the work that was carried out in the 2001-2006 legislature, but I did not have a conclusion. This effort is intended to restore dignity to the work of a Parliament, which in recent weeks has also experienced a complicated phase in terms of recognising its role. Today, however, we regain an important role, which is to give centrality to the issue of the environment and its protection, placing it at the centre of the constitutional principles inspiring our Republic. That is why Italy Viva will support with conviction this constitutional change and will vote for its approval. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u154	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, first of all, the Brothers of Italy are in favour of protecting the environment, nature and biodiversity. This heritage has been entrusted to us and we have a duty to leave it in good condition for the next generations. At the first reading of this provision, however, we asked for some aspects of the constitutional bill to be examined further, because we need to see what the consequences of the changes to the Constitution can be, which are not only in Article 9, to include the environment as the subject of protection of the part of the Republic, but also in Article 41, where we talk about economic activities, as well as in the paragraph in which we talk about the possibility of directing in a certain direction all economic activities, in this case in favour of the environment. Well, we have raised these concerns, but we have not had an answer in the meantime. We have reached the second reading by the Senate. At the Conference of the Leaders we agreed to the timetable for this measure and we set ourselves within the framework of our usual way of interpreting our role as patriotic opposition, which has never posed and has no intention of putting obstacles to the work of the Senate. If anything, the obstacles to the Senate's work come from elsewhere and today we have had proof of that. Today, in fact, after the measure approved in the morning, the Decree-Law No 121 of 2021 on infrastructure, arrived in the Senate at the last moment because the government majority decided to exclude this branch of Parliament as much as possible from any intervention on this measure and already this is very contrary to the Constitution. Even the little work to be done in the Commission - as we know that no action can be taken - has been delayed to a minimum, so the measure is not ready. With the intervention of our group leader, Senator Ciriani, we asked to maintain the schedule of work that was planned, according to which this measure would be discussed tomorrow. This proposal was refused to us, as the majority used its numbers, which correspond to 90 percent of the Senate, to reject it. Undoubtedly, this is not the way to act. The only opposition force set up in the Group has a duty to participate in the work and must be able to do so in the best possible way, in an informed manner and also to be able to take decisions within itself that are in conformity with what we believe to be the good of the country. We have been prevented from doing so and we have become more perplexed. Colleagues - as I said at the outset - we fully agree in the defence of the environment, nature and biodiversity, but our territory is not that of Canada and in great part is the result of man's interaction with nature. Millions of hectares of our country's territory are an extraordinary natural heritage and are a UNESCO heritage; however, beyond this recognition, they are a resource also extraordinary landscape and they are because there has been the interaction of man with the environment, which goes in one direction as in the other. The reduced human presence in mountain areas - for example - has greatly increased the area covered by woods and forests. One cannot think of an environment that excludes the human component, which risks considering it as a kind of disturbance to nature. Certainly this reasoning cannot be done in Italy. A few moments ago an authoritative Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars intervened, the major Group in the Senate, Senator Toninelli, former Minister, who told us that this measure also implies moving towards changes in eating habits, to reduce or even abolish meat consumption. Italy - as has already been mentioned by my colleague - has 112,000 farms that live on the farm and then there is the whole supply chain (there are not only these 112,000 companies). So, we can't pretend to be in another country. [[Applause]] We cannot pretend that fighting any kind of economic activity is something that goes alone and has no influence on other aspects. The risk that has been feared is that the change of the Constitution may have consequences even at the level of intervention by the judiciary in respect - for example - of the regulatory plans of Municipalities, of development plans. If you put economic activity and the environment on the same level, the interpretation that can then derive from it by some magistrate, perhaps ideologicalized - given that there is some ideological magistrate - could lead to consequences for which a mayor, a council or a municipal junta, risk being investigated for having made a certain plan that, according to someone's assessment, gave too much space to development and too little to nature. Of course, we rely on judgements, years of issues arise and problems can be created from the point of view of investment from Italy or abroad. If, in fact, there is a risk that economic activities will be subject to particular restrictions, which are not predictable, since there are, as it should be, many restrictions on existing legislation, some fear of developments certainly has its reasons to be. For these reasons we had asked to be able to discuss the measure as planned and with us as agreed. This was not possible. The majority, however overwhelming from the numerical point of view, must then take account of the fact that there is an opposition that wants to make its contribution in its continuous changes in programmes, although it has been agreed. Today - for example - we were determined to behave as we behaved in the Chamber, that is, by proposing the freedom of vote to the Senators members of the Brothers of Italy Group, so that each one could express the different sensibilities that are on the subject precisely because it is important, but insidious in some respects. The behaviour of the majority, the continuous changes of mind, the behaviours that reject the confrontation, the Government that does not answer questions and the majority that does not accept the formation of a Committee of Inquiry on Health that has been called for for for years, that has always been and that has been refused in this legislature, have forced us to announce that we will not participate in the vote. The anticipation of such an important measure, by changing the Constitution, with very few senators present in the Chamber - apparently they do not consider it so important - just because it is feared that tomorrow the numbers will become thin because, not relying too much on the overwhelming and overwhelming majority, someone could take the road home, led us to announce that we will not participate in the vote. And we reiterate our support for environmental protection, but at the same time our concern about certain points and possible consequences of the constitutional reform bill in our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u157	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, my Group has already repeated in its explanation of vote and in its vote of 9 June last how fundamental the vote is for the Democratic Party, which the Senate will shortly be called upon to express. The last words we heard from Senator Malan, on behalf of his Group, are perplexing. Mr President, the objections and the respect which the whole House naturally owes to the opposition have, in our view, been absolutely maintained. I must also say that the text is completely identical to what we voted on 9 June in the Senate Chamber: a comma has not been changed. So there have been four months to go into the text in case there is still something to go into. I am a little surprised when I hear, for example, that the environment excludes the human component. But when? The text says exactly the opposite, speaking of the protection and protection of the biodiversity of ecosystems and, therefore, of the human component. There is no division and dichotomy between man and the environment that responds to old vision outdated, thank God. The pandemic is demonstrating in an undeniable way that the environment and man are part of the same ecosystem and that in a sick environment man cannot be healthy, as the Pope repeats with insistence in the Encyclical "Laudato si'". So the old visions, the ways of saying "We" are not against the environment, but they don't hold up from any point of view. We therefore call on you to think on this issue on time, because the defence of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems is now a qualifying point for any parliamentary assembly at international level. Three weeks ago we had an important meeting at the pre-COP26 of the parliaments and I had the opportunity to hear the parliamentary representations of all the constitutional arches of 70 countries discuss: sensitivity and urgency with regard to these issues - thank God - are now at an absolutely high level. Mr President, we believe that today's vote is very important, and for countless reasons. It is - for example - because we surpass a historical gap: for the first time in the history of our Republic, in the seventy-three years of life of our great Constitution, we are going to modify one of the first twelve articles of the Constitution, the articles that define the body of fundamental principles. With respect to this, some, as "priests" of the Constitution - as Senator Parrini already said - have twisted their noses because of the fact of modifying the Constitution in the fundamental principles. In reality, we do not change anything of what exists: instead, we go to integrate, to fill an absence due to the fact that our constituent Fathers did not have the matter - they could not have had it - of what would have happened from 1947 to today, namely the climatic emergency, the raising of pollution, the exponential growth of CO and of all the climatic gases, as happened since the end of the Second World War - even before, but since then even more exponentially - to the present day. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was absolutely necessary to fill this gap; to make up for lost time; to give us the opportunity to do what other nations and other parliaments have done for a long time, throughout the world, certainly also in the European Union. We supplement Article 9, which talks about the development of culture, scientific and technical research, which, of course, remain for us inalienable principles. It is the article that speaks of the protection of the landscape, of the historical and artistic heritage. And we add the protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems in the interests of future generations. The Democratic Party believes - it is convinced - that this is a passage of historical importance: for the first time within the Constitution we place interest in future generations. We have understood that the environment is a finite resource and that we must legislate not only in the interest of those who live today, but also - and, let us, above all - of those who are coming, of our children, of our grandchildren. Of course, there has been a passage, the one on animal protection, which has seen a very heated debate within the restricted committee. I would remind you that a political force, the League, has tabled - I think - 250,000 amendments on this. We have found a form of balance, defining a state law reserve for the discipline of the forms of animal protection, understanding that there are absolutely distinct positions on this issue. We go from the Italian civil code, which still states today that animals are things that human beings can dispose of, to the opposite side, to the Treaty of Lisbon, which states, instead, that animals are sentient beings. It is clear that it is not easy to reconstruct a unified vision within such diverse and diverse positions. I want to remind you that there are also positions in our country and not only that the human being is a human animal, for example. The form we have found, however, is absolutely balanced and, when incorporating the issue of animal protection into the Constitution, it also sets out how to find the form of protection that can be as organic and balanced as possible. I would also like to mention the article in the Constitution which defines economic relations, namely Article 41, which was and is extraordinary and of great importance. Our constituent Fathers wanted to protect the private and public initiative and had established that the private economic initiative is free, but they already said that it cannot be carried out in contrast with the social utility and in such a way as to harm security, freedom and dignity: they already placed stakes. I am Venetian and I have seen with my own eyes what is happening with the PFAS: hundreds of thousands of people directly affected by the waters that, for tens of years, have drunk them, their parents and their children, with all the consequences that are resulting and with a deep and structural pollution of the slopes. So, Mr President, what was necessary? It was necessary to compose that constitutional balance between the sacrosanct right to the protection of private economic initiative and that to the protection of the environment; it had to be written and explained, because the judgments of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Cassation and everything else were not sufficient. It was necessary to balance and approach the protection of the environment alongside the planned deadline and private initiative, remembering that the world is already going in that direction: there is no contrast, there is no dichotomy, there is no contradiction between the economic initiative and the protection of the environment. By now, even if we were to see it only from the point of view of the profitability of the investment, all the worlds insurance, banking and communication have already understood that either it is done private initiative that moves in the protection of the environment, or it does not bring home the economic result. Therefore, it is a principle of economic rationality that we are placing within the Constitution. Mr President, I therefore believe that it has been quite clear that the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure, which it has helped to write. We have respected the time: from the first vote in the Senate on June 9th to the vote of the first passage to the Chamber on October 12th. We have a way of closing this constitutional change by mid-January 2022. We owe it to those who have fought against the climate crisis for a long time, understanding before us what was about to happen. We owe it to us, but above all we owe it to our children, to whom we must deliver a world system that has been lent to us under better conditions than what we have built. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u160	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have waited many years for this moment and we are finally at the third reading today; we have now reached the goal for which we have waited and worked for many years. The debate on this issue even begins with the Bozzi Commission, but it is a request that has grown over the years. I would also like to thank all those, of various political forces and also of past legislation, who have presented draft constitutional laws similar to the one we are discussing in order to include the protection of the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity in our Constitution. And we strongly wanted it to be included, as is right, in the first part of the Constitution, where the highest value of our constitutional principles is established, where the republican pact is held. I say this very clearly. There were criticisms because we wanted to make specific changes - as the rapporteur rightly said - to Part I of the Constitution, but it was not tampering. That's the point. On the contrary, going to re-read the debate in the constituent assembly, it is understood that it was a continuation of the work that the constituent Fathers and Mothers did with the writing of the admirable article 9 of the Constitution, which was a point of reference. They were, however, other times and had points of reference more related to the value of the landscape and to the same law of protection of 1939. I mean, it was a different world. It is important to make this debate today and to vote on the measure at third reading, at the same time as the development in Glasgow of COP26, where the urgency and the emergency to save life on the planet, to give ourselves binding goals and stop climate change are all issues that are being discussed not only the Heads of Government, but also all the associations, movements and young people who in recent years - and in particular in recent months - have asked us urgently to intervene. We intervene on Article 9 of the Constitution, integrating the defence and protection of the landscape and cultural heritage, which are our identity, with the protection of the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity, which are fundamental. We can live and be in harmony with creation alone and only if we extend the entire protection system. Man is not the master of creation and the universe and therefore the protection, not only, generically, of biodiversity, but also of all animal species is a central thing. Certainly we need a cultural change, with a different approach, but crucial and fundamental. The inclusion of the amendment in Part I of our Constitution makes it preceptive and peremptory to act. We must do here, in our country, the part that belongs to all of us in order to act, preserve, protect and stop what risks being an apocalyptic catastrophe. I would remind you that constitutional jurisprudence has interpreted Article 9 of the Constitution well and broadly - and less badly - but it was absolutely necessary for protection to enter the Constitutional Charter for the guarantee and protection of collective and individual rights. I'll say one more thing. We have taken care to incorporate all the views that have been expressed during the many hearings held. Many constitutionalists have rightly suggested that we also intervene on Article 41 of the Constitution to ensure that private and public initiatives, from an economic point of view, do not harm health and the environment. You understand how crucial this is. The company's social responsibility is complemented by environmental responsibility. This is an absolutely crucial issue today. Our country makes a great step forward from this point of view and the current one is, therefore, an important historical moment. We arrive after many other countries, because the Constitutions of most European countries already provide for the protection of the environment. There are those who predicted it at the beginning, when building the Constitutional Pact, and those who did it afterwards. Let us think of the German Constitution, which, as early as 1994, introduced another concept that is now crucial, namely the protection of the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity for future generations as well. Do you understand? This is something that, in my opinion, every day young people in the streets ask us why they tell us to act. I connected it with COP26 and there was an urgent need to do and adapt our Constitution. Someone said it wasn't there or that he doesn't believe it will produce some sort of effect. The urgency was there because time is running out, if it hasn't expired. The constitutional change serves to remind ourselves and the citizens of the sense of the emergency that objective facts and scientific data indicate to us. In the G20 an agreement was reached on keeping the temperature increase within one and a half degrees. Unfortunately, I have the vague impression that we have already overcome this increase, that we must equip ourselves to contain it within two degrees. But if we continue this way, we risk having - as the data of the Intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC) tell us - a temperature increase of 2.7 degrees. Think of what this would mean for our country and for future generations. I also call for the urgent need for great political and cultural involvement. The constitutional change is important because the protection, the fight against climate change and the emergency before us cannot be dealt with thinking that technology will solve everything. Technology will help us, but a great cultural change is needed. Pope Francis first reminded us of this because in the Encyclical "Laudato si'" gives us a new interpretation of the world, a new vision of the harmony of building, of no longer being the masters of the universe and of recreating a system of harmony, seen as we have mistreated creation and the universe. Life can continue on this planet only and only if we are able to reconstruct harmony with the environment and with the living species. By amending Article 41 we also do another operation: we constitutionalize a collective and individual right. For these reasons we are voting more than firmly on the constitutional bill that we have really been waiting for many in our country for a very long time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u163	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we voted for this constitutional bill amending our Constitution as early as 9 June. On that occasion I had the opportunity to speak and to say what I thought on a personal basis by speaking in general debate. Today, my Group has given me the opportunity to speak on behalf of everyone and, therefore, I also naturally feel responsible for speaking on behalf of my colleagues. That is why I must thank President Anna Maria Bernini and all my colleagues who have given me this honour. On the occasion of the third vote of amendment I fully feel the responsibility of being a Member of the Republic - in the Senate we are 315 and the Italians are 60 million - although not always the same sense of responsibility is present in some of us. And I feel it even more deeply on a subject like this, the introduction of environmental protection, biodiversity and animals into our Constitution. The President of the 1st Parrini Commission, whom I thank for his work on this amendment to our Constitution, has already said this in an admirable way. It is well known to all that I have always been against modifying our Constitution with spot interventions, but this is one of those cases where the exception confirms the rule. I think that our environment has profoundly changed and that the perception of Italian citizens has profoundly changed since 1948 to today, in 2021. I therefore fully feel the responsibility of saying 'yes'; this reform, this amendment of our Constitution is in place, it is in place. And that is why I think it is right to intervene on our Constitution, although our legislator has already intervened on more than one occasion in the past. I would like to mention, for example, the interventions, which were taken up in 2004, of the introduction into our ordinary legislation of environmental and animal standards, in particular with regard to wild animals. Today these principles are introduced in our Constitution, in our primary Charter, and I believe that this is also important because there is clarity about the confusion between regional legislation and national legislation. Our Constitutional Court, with judgments no. 63 and 88 of 2020, clarified the prevalence of the state over regional legislation, which sought to intervene with a tense focus on these issues. Beyond the exquisitely technical, legal and constitutional issues, which also fascinate me as a scholar of our Constitution and as a member of the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this is one of those very topical issues on which our Parliament and in particular the Senate (because this is where this reform of environmental protection comes from) has intervened in an appropriate and timely manner. It is right to recall that this has now become a global and international issue, not only in the 2030 UN Agenda, which includes the inclusion of issues related to the protection of the environment and biodiversity. Someone before me mentioned the just concluded G20, here in Rome, the capital of Italy, in which our President of the Council of Ministers Mario Draghi made and made us make a great figure to us Italians, because we have shown that we have a Premier up to the task that contemporary generations have to face in order to realize that much is changing. What happened with the pandemic put us in front of news that humanity did not even think remotely of having to face. They were themes that could perhaps be the subject of a film, but certainly not of real life. Yet this has put us in front of the fact that evidently the life of us men on this planet must still be faced with a series of conditions that also depend on the quality of life and the way in which man relates to the environment. We in recent years have been wrong and that is why I regret to hear more of a human component from a colleague of the Brothers of Italy. It's not like that. It's not like that. I am sorry, Mr Malan, I believe that this is an old-fashioned and outdated concept of the environment, not just here; it is a concept that is no longer good. We must be aware that it is not by chance that even the European Commission's agenda today has allowed and conditioned the disbursement of funds to this country only if Italy is able to give answers on ecological transition. We must be aware, therefore, that something has changed. In our country we must have a different attitude and a different culture compared to the protection of the environment, also as regards, for example, the supply of energy. To feel that China still tends to increase coal production, when we know perfectly well that there are international measures that provide for decarbonisation, we are deeply concerned [[Applause]] , especially because we must be aware that we are not the masters of the planet, but that we have it on loan for the generations to come. Someone said so, but we must all be aware of it: before we arrived our planet was lived by people who did not ruin it as we in fifty years managed to do. Today we need an awareness, clearly lacking in the past years and now the subject of an international debate, which finally involves the Heads of Government of the most industrialized countries in the world. The climate issue is therefore one of the issues. I know that there are people who think differently; there may have been glaciations at one time, but I am not a scientist, I am not Rubbia, a colleague of ours who is unfortunately not here today. I can only think and share the fact that I perceive on my skin that the environment has changed deeply for the worse over the last thirty or forty years. We have a duty to safeguard our environment and we have a duty to incorporate its protection into our Constitutional Charter, because only in this way will we save the planet for the generations to come. That is why Forza Italia will vote in favour of this amendment to our Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u166	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not without emotion I am preparing to make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. We are taking action to amend one of the articles that is a legislative source of one of the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter. I must remind you that the fundamental principles, even if they are explicitly included in the first 12 articles of the Charter, actually concern a much greater number of articles because up to Article 54 we can find the scale of those values that all together constitute the pillar of our national identity; a pillar around which we Italians recognize ourselves as such for a common sense of ideas, values and spirit, because we are Italians because we share a common vision of the world. This is the reason why we must approach the amendment of the Constitutional Charter with great respect and with great humility, because we must also maintain high the spirit of the constituent Fathers and respect also the style, which is difficult to match, this must be emphasized. We must not forget, among other things, that this set of values, these fundamental principles give rise to what the Constitutional Court has defined as counter-limits to the role of the European Union. So, all the more so, we must be very careful to measure our interventions. The protection of the environment, in fact, was already part of our constitutional structure, thanks to the many interventions of the judge, of the laws, of the Constitutional Court, but also of the jurisprudence of merit and legitimacy. However, our intervention cannot be said to be useless, because it serves not only to resume the moves of what the Constitutional Court has indicated, but also to map out the way to the future and to the challenges ahead. The Court has repeatedly made it clear that the environment is not a matter, but it is a value and, on several occasions, it has therefore reminded us that the environment is a good thing. On the point, the definition of Jhering still remains important, which reminds us that "bene" is all we can need, so "bene" is what can be the object of an interest. Then we can ask ourselves why the Commission has considered - and this has also been mentioned - not to deduce the environmental good as the object of a right. In some cases there has been talk of the right to the environment. I would like to point out that the Commission's choice is not intended to give the environment less protection, and I will explain this shortly. However, I must emphasize that the article we are about to vote on must not be read within the obsolete distinction between preceptive rules and programmatic rules. We are not only indicating to the legislator the future path to follow, but we are also laying down a rule, which will be the subject of direct application by the jurisprudence. This further explains the need to use a broad notion, such as that of interest. Subjective law, as a protected situation erga omnes, for a long time now for jurisprudence and doctrine does not have a central role within the general theory of law. Among other things, the concept of law adapts and adapts more to the protection of private situations. Here, in reality, we are faced with a greater good. Well said the Constitutional Court that the environment is protected as a determining element of the quality of life. Its protection does not pursue abstract naturalistic or aesthetic purposes, but expresses the need for a natural habitat in which man lives and acts and which is necessary to the community and, for it, to the citizens, according to widely felt values. The Court states that the environment is, therefore, a legal asset, as recognised and protected by rules, but it is certainly not possible to consider it to be the object of an appropriate subjective situation, since it belongs to the category of free goods, which can be used by the community and by individuals. Among other things, the notion of the environment cannot be further reduced in the area of subjective law, because subjective law is anthropocentric notion, whereas the environment to which the Commission has referred is an environment enslaved to the ecosystem, of which we are not only part, and to biodiversity. The environment is therefore a good that is not likely to be confined to the private sector of the relevant subjective law erga omnes. It is the subject of a plurality of interests and it will be up to the case law to make the most of this choice, so as to define an environmental protection that enhances the dynamic perspective of the ecosystem and the relationship of biodiversity. There is more: why the use of the notion of interest and not the concept of straight? Because of this interest we are not only bearers, but also bearers of future generations. We are therefore faced with a formula so respectful of the teachings of the Constitutional Court and the laws, but also open to future interpretations, capable of giving adequate answers to all that will bring about this century and - hopefully - even the future centuries. Let me stress that I particularly appreciated the speeches of my fellow Members Pazzaglini and Parrini: the first, because he reminded us that the broad formula that we are preparing to incorporate into the Constitution requires systemic coordination with the whole scale of values; therefore, not the environment as a totem, but as part of a system where other goods and other interests are of equal rank and must be protected and balanced. Mr Parrini's speech was also appreciated by me because it was of a technical nature where he stressed the importance of the intervention and replied to certain objections to which he gave an adequate reply, and I agree with the answers he has made. I say this at the end of my speech to underline the harmony with which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked, all aware of the importance of intervention. We then give a norm to future generations - with great emotion and with great respect - trusting that the same will accompany the Italians throughout the century before us. I therefore declare the vote in favour on behalf of the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u169	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to dedicate once again a moving thought to the people who have lost their lives because of extreme climatic events; in particular, to the deaths of the last few weeks, victims of the Mediterranean cyclone that fell on Sicily and Calabria. Today it is before everyone's eyes that one does not just die of illness, but also dies because of the climate. Only a few years ago, making such a statement, I would have been accused of environmental idealism. Yes, idealism. But how can we define idealism as what is extremely real, which unfortunately we live every year in an increasingly risky and dangerous way? How can one claim that everything we are living does not exist, when everyone can see with their own eyes what is happening? Everyone is experiencing the discomfort caused by climate change. Torrential quantities of water fall in a few hours instead of months; coasts and beaches practically no longer exist; the city of Venice is slowly swallowed up by water, our cities now called heat islands: they are just some of the effects of climate change that we are experiencing. Just in these days - before in Rome during the G20, now in Glasgow for COP26 - all the countries of the earth have gathered and are discussing not ideals, but planning and concrete decisions and actions to counter extreme events and changes that climate change is generating. What was ironically nicknamed environmental idealism, and which we have always defined as movement, has in fact succeeded in realizing, institutionalizing the fight against climate change that the whole world, unfortunately, is facing today. In fact, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres did not have half a word to describe the true situation on our planet. Just two days ago he said these words that I want to repeat here in the Chamber: The six years since the Paris Climate Agreement have been the hottest six years ever recorded. Our dependence on fossil fuels is pushing humanity to the brink of disaster. We are faced with a clear choice: either we stop it, or we stop it. It's time to say, stop. No more brutalizing biodiversity. Stop killing us with carbon. Just treat nature like a toilet. No more burning, drilling, digging deeper. We're digging our own graves. The Movimento 5 Stars, since its birth, has always put the environment at the center of its actions, not only the political ones. [[Applause]] They gave us idealists and now look at us: after years we are here, in this Palace, discussing the inclusion of environmental protection and animal protection in our Constitution. The Constitution itself created to protect democracy from the barbarism of fascism will be enriched today to protect our country and safeguard the lives of all. The Movimento 5 Stars revolutionized our political and environmental paradigm, implementing measures to protect the environment, our citizens and animals. If the country is more social, it is more green, it is more efficient, it is more circular, it is more sustainable thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars. Today we are taking a new and decisive step forward in this House to address the challenges that lie ahead of us in 2050 and to implement the process of ecological transition for a new value and cultural wealth, more attentive to social and environmental well-being. [[Applause]] We must put the common good first. Our society will undergo a profound change, which will lead us to a new ecological evolution. Inserting environmental protection into the Constitution is the first brick in this process. Like many other Member States of the European Union, our fellow citizens will also have the right to live in a healthy environment. These issues, for the sake of the future of the citizens, must not have a political color, but must find us united for the good of humanity. President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to make our Constitution even more beautiful and up-to-date, including the provision, in particular, in two articles, on 9 and 41, of the protection of the environment and animals. We have only one deadline for achieving the ecological transition, which is 2050. There are no other alternatives; we must put the environment at the centre of our work. Today we write together a piece of history of our country: we insert the protection of the environment and animals in our Constitution. And I want to renew my heartfelt thanks for the work done by my colleagues Gianluca Perilli, Alessandra Maiorino, all the Movimento 5 Stars and all the colleagues in this House. [[Applause]] Today once again our star of the environment shines. Therefore, I confirm the favorable vote of all the Movimento 5 Stars to the bill at our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u170	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required to vote on a constitutional bill in the second resolution. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot for the second resolution on the constitutional bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 221 Senators voting 220 Favorable 218 Contrars 0 Absent 2]] The Senate shall approve by a majority of two thirds of its members in the second resolution. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] The applause confirms that two thirds have been achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u171	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2437, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Astorre, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u174	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to understand who authorised the start of the general debate on the decree-law, which is still before the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not before the Commission. CIRIANI (FdI). It is.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u177	Mr ASTORRE, rapporteur. Mr President, the measure was fired at around 2 p.m. with the rapporteur's mandate to report to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u178	Mr President, the evaluation of the amendments by the Budget Committee has not been received.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u179	In fact, we will have the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u180	Yes, but I would like to understand who decided that this afternoon the general debate would begin in the absence of the opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u181	In fact, we are beginning with the general discussion of the measure, which was in the timetable of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u182	The Conference of Leaders began at 4 p.m. again without warning the opposition - I am referring to you, Mr President, so that the House knows - because the opposition is annoyance in this House and you who are chairing this House at the moment should take charge (you and those who are responsible for chairing) of guaranteeing the rights of the opposition first - I repeat once again - because the majority of your rights are asserting them without problems and do not need the help of those who are chairing this House. I find it absolutely regrettable and unacceptable that, in the presence of a conference of group leaders - which is still under way and has not acted on the timetable for tomorrow's and next week's work - it is already decided to start with the general discussion of a decree-law which still lacks the fundamental judgements of the Budget Commission, which must check whether the amendments are admissible. I am telling you, Madam President, because you may not know that the Government seems to have no intention of trusting the measure, so we have to wait until the one-off amendments are checked by the 5th Commission this time to see if they are eligible for consideration in this House. All the more so, I would ask you to suspend the work of this House and resume it only when the Conference of Leaders has decided what to do. This is to protect the House and above all the opposition, which I know is annoying, but nevertheless it does not give up its role. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u185	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to remind myself and the House that the decree-law was on schedule, that the measure was hesitated by the Commission, that the Budget Committee gave its opinion on the text, so we can start the rapporteur's report and the general debate and that, as always, before moving to the vote on the articles and related amendments, there will be the distribution - I hope - of the opinion of the Budget Commission, so there is nothing to prevent the progress of the report and the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u186	In an impeccable way, President Calderoli anticipated what I would have told you. Senator Ciriani, I give you the floor, but then I stop, I can't go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u187	Mr President, since there is no greater deafness than those who do not want to hear, if we want to play on the Rules of Procedure again, let us do it and, then, officially ask for the suspension of the work of this House until tomorrow morning and I ask for my proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u188	Senator Ciriani, I would like to reiterate to the House, precisely in order to defend the work carried out by both the Presidency Council and the Administration, that the measure is in the current timetable and therefore has not been inserted subsequently, regardless of what happened in the Group Leader. I have an assessment of the 5th Commission on the text and I am therefore authorised by the Rules of Procedure to open the general debate. However, you have the option of presenting a suspensive question at the end of the speech by the rapporteur, which will then be evaluated. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u189	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the Commission for their public works and my colleagues from the Brothers of Italy who have participated actively in the work with their proposals and discussions. I would particularly like to thank my colleagues Mr Ruspandini and Mr Malan. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us, which comes to the Senate after the House of Members has examined it, contains urgent measures on infrastructure and transport. [[Brusio]] It is difficult to continue with the report. It's a vexed question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask my fellow Members who are in the Chamber next to the rapporteur to sit down and allow the rapporteur to carry out his report properly. Mr ASTORRE, rapporteur. Thank you, President. The article, in paragraph 1, introduces changes to the road code. These amendments, which in the original text of the Decree-Law were intended to enhance the safety of the circulation of specific categories of users, were multiplied during the examination at the other branch of Parliament. In summary, the new provisions, which in many cases take up the content of a unified text of the bill under consideration in the IX Chamber Commission, strengthen the financial penalties and increase the reduction of the points of the licence for those who occupy without authorisation the spaces reserved for vehicles for the service of persons with disabilities and provide that such vehicles, if they are already occupied and unavailable to the stalls reserved for them, can be parked free of charge in the paid parking areas. These provisions reduce the total permissible masses in the case of transport carried out with exceptional vehicles, with the introduction of derogations for vehicles provided with civil protection to local authorities and the third sector; they increase sanctions in the case of throwing waste and other things from vehicles; introduce the prohibition on roads or advertising vehicles proposing sexist or violent messages, offensive gender stereotypes or messages detrimental to respect for individual freedoms, civil and political rights, religious beliefs, ethnicity, or discriminatory; allow the installation of cartels at the centre of the roundabouts to indicate the undertaking responsible for treating green when maintenance is entrusted free of charge to private companies or other bodies. Paragraph 5 affects some aspects of the discipline of the activity of haulier to specify that the assumption that it makes necessary the acquisition of the card of qualification of the driver (CQC) is the exercise and the professional transport of people or things and not the simple driving of vehicles of superior category, and to clarify the various cases that prove the possession of the CQC in relation to licenses issued from foreign States also extra European. We discussed this in the Commission. Paragraphs 5-a to 5-c govern the modalities and conditions for a maximum contribution of EUR 1,000 - and this was a point we discussed in the Commission - for the reimbursement of the costs incurred in obtaining the licence and professional ratings necessary for driving vehicles intended for the carriage of goods on behalf of third parties, from 1 January to 30 June 2022. Paragraphs 6-e to 6-novies provide that, when designing and implementing road, motorway and rail infrastructure, additional infrastructure should be provided to allow the safe passage of wildlife in areas where their presence on the territory is greatest. This is an important point, because often the opinion of the superintendence blocks the realization of public works even of great importance. Article 1-a simplifies procedures for the recognition of facilities for the purchase of vehicles for people with disabilities. Article 2 lays down provisions on motorway and water infrastructure. In particular, paragraph 1 extends to next 31 December the deadline within which the motorway dealers, whose five-year regulatory period has expired, are called upon to perfection the updating of the respective economic and financial plans, so-called PEF, for the purpose of adjusting the motorway tariffs for the years 2020 and 2021. Paragraphs 1-a and 1-b supplement the framework for the granting of the A22 Brenner motorway, providing that it can also be done through the use of project finance procedures, to be completed by 31 December 2022. The payments of the amounts due to Autobrennero SpA are also settled. Paragraph 2-a extends to next 31 December the suspension of the increases to the toll rates of the highways A24 and A25 (the so-called motorway of the Parks, which has one of the most expensive and expensive tariff systems for the users). The paragraphs 2-b and 2-c, in order to accelerate the time of realization of the Tarquinia-San Pietro road in Palazzi, in the province of Livorno (the completion of the so-called northern Tyrrhenian corridor, which today starts from the motorway Rome-Civitavecchia and arrives up to Tarquinia and which must be concluded up to Cecina), authorize the purchase by ANAS of the projects elaborated by the Tirrenic Highway Company (SAT), after payment of a fixed consideration with reference only to the design costs and quantified in 36 million euros. Paragraphs 2-e to 2-eedecies contain provisions on the management of motorways which, for the management of state highways under concession through in-house custody, authorise the establishment of a new company wholly controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and subject to the similar control of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, to which the functions and activities assigned by the provisions in force to ANAS will be transferred, with exclusive regard to state toll motorways. The new company may conclude special agreements with companies directly or indirectly controlled by the State, for the purposes of technical, operational and management assistance, as well as constitute or acquire holdings in highway management companies. Paragraph 2- terdecies states that the joint regional companies Autostrade del Lazio SpA, Autostrade del Molise SpA, Concessioni Autostradali Lombarde SpA and Concessioni Autostradali Piemontesi SpA, which, on the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law under consideration, have not initiated or concluded, with an award order, the tendering procedures for the custody of the highways of regional importance, are dissolved and put into liquidation. The allocation to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility of resources already earmarked for the realization of infrastructure of regional importance by the companies cleared and still available, to be used naturally for the same purposes. The paragraph 2-ffdecies authorizes Rome Capital to conclude with ANAS, as a central purchasing body, a convention for the realization of urgent interventions for the safety and extraordinary maintenance of the municipal roads of Rome. ANAS will be able to use the available resources up to EUR 5 million. Article 2-a provides that the Ministry of Infrastructure, in agreement with the concession concessionaires of the motorway sections, will evaluate the sites for the location - this is important - of motorway toll booths for access to railway stations and high speed. Article 3, paragraph 9-b, in relation to the realization of the Turin-Lion railway line, extends the qualification of areas of strategic national interest to the areas and sites of the Municipality of Chiomonte identified for the realization of connected works, including those of resolution of interferences, as well as the areas site in the municipalities of the valley, identified for the installation of the yards of the cross-border section, including those of resolution of interferences. Article 4 lays down provisions on investment and safety in the maritime transport sector. The paragraphs from the 1-f to the 1- novies bring changes to article 5 of the law n. 84 of 1994, in order to discipline in detail the strategic programming of the authorities of harbour system, also through the forecast of a new instrument (the document of strategic programming of system). the paragraph 2 introduces the port of Arbatax in the circuit of the port of Sardinia and the paragraph 3 assigns to the authority of harbour system of the strait 2 million euros for infrastructural participations to the ferrying in the strait of Messina. Paragraph 4 provides for compensation for the reduction of the tariff revenues related to passengers transported from 23 February to 31 December, so far provided for in favour of the only ships flying the Italian flag. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Astorre, I only interrupt you to warn you that you still have the last minute of the total ten. But you, if necessary, can go on for up to twenty minutes or deliver the written text of the intervention. I'm warning you because, as a rule, I have to let you know that your time is running out. Mr ASTORRE (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I shall then list only the subject of the articles and then give you the written text, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Mr ASTORRE (PD). Article 5 regulates mission structures at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Article 6 lays down provisions for the functionality of the National Railway Safety Agency. Article 7 lays down urgent provisions on air transport, thus relating to Alitalia and Italy air transport (ITA). Article 8 deals with the rules governing the facilitation of the purchase of low-emission vehicles (so-called ecobonus). Article 9 contains measures for the rapid implementation of the Bari Justice Park. Article 10 is very important because it defines certain procedures for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Article 11 provides for the refinancing of the price component and contributions of the fund referred to in Law No 394 of 1981 administered by Simest (this has also been discussed in the Commission). Article 12 establishes in the state of the MEF the Competitions, Design and Ideas Fund for Territorial Cohesion. Article 13 extends the benefits of the institute called "Resto al Sud" to some Italian municipalities and smaller islands. Article 15 introduces changes in infrastructure equalisation. Article 16 extends certain Commissioners to 31 December. Article 17 provides for the entry into force of the measure. I should like to conclude by making a political point. Such a measure would have deserved much more detailed consideration in the Commission. As a matter of fact, we have had half a day for the debate and we will most likely continue in this House with a vote of confidence. I think that Parliament's role must be enhanced; we must all be able to do our work in science and conscience. This time we have not been able to work as would a competent parliamentary committee on infrastructure. I would like to thank all the staff of the Commission and all my fellow senators, who have worked together under the conditions laid down, so that we can do a good job by giving a mandate to me to report to the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u190	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u191	Mr President, I will try to put an end to the ideas, given that, in this daily hustle and bustle, I was supposed to postpone my speech. This measure, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies with the issue of trust, is of considerable importance in relation to the territory I represent. In particular, Article 16 refers to the extension of special Commissioners to post-seism reconstruction. As has been done in the House, we have also tabled amendments in the Senate on this subject. The problem represented in the nine municipalities of the Province of Catania (but, as we have seen, also in Campobasso and in other territories) is relative to the slowness of the reconstruction procedures. There is a positive experience (that of the reconstruction of Central Italy, which in turn takes its cue from the rapid reconstruction of the bridge of Genoa) concerning the derogation of some strict rules in the field of reconstruction and urban planning. In this case we have proposed to extend this legislation, which, wrongly or rightly, is defined as Legnini legislation, by the name of the Commissioner who is currently dealing with the reconstruction in Central Italy, who in turn made use of the ordinances. These are, however, choices that these derogations make. If there were no confidence here in the Senate and the opportunity was given to examine every amendment and agenda, one could explain what the government said about the allocation to the South of 40% of the funds. We know that most of them are linked to bank projects, i.e. projects that are sung with local government initiatives, and are then accounted for with European funds and measures that are not revisited. Let's think about high speed: the national guidelines provide it at 300 kilometers per hour, but we are still in South Italy at 160 kilometers per hour. I would therefore like to highlight the inconsistency of what is being said with what is being done. If the attention is really high and maximum, then it will be possible to vote on these amendments, which, among other things - ironic of fate - have had the favourable opinion of Casa Italia, the Department set up at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and which is a member of the post-Sysm reconstruction. Another peculiarity is related to the emergency that we have experienced in Sicily in the last days. Yesterday I was in the affected territories and two days ago I participated in Scordia at the funeral of the couple victims of the flood. I was able to take a tour of the territories yesterday on Ramacca, Militello in Val di Catania and Palagonia and the usual speech emerged: there is no planning of prevention activities. Just now I referred to Casa Italia. I remember that in the previous years of this legislature, the XVIII, the head of the national civil protection, the engineer Curcio, held tables on precisely the reconstruction activities for the earthquake and for the natural disasters aimed at the realization of a framework law that served as a reference in the immediacy and in the necessity for standardised interventions after calamitous events. Returning to the Sicilian territories, however, the problem is prevention. I have personally seen that in the areas where maintenance has been carried out - for example in the waterways, with immediate intervention, carried out with the funds allocated after the flood event of 18 October 2018 - it has had a positive effect, in the sense that the consequences have been contained. Instead, I saw areas where no intervention had been made since the flood in 2018. There are therefore problems - which I take the opportunity to represent - related to the fact that the funds have not arrived totally at their destination - I am referring to those of 2018 - and another linked to the fact that the conversion into law of Decree No 121 of 2021 to the House took place a few days after the flood event. It could therefore be an opportunity to take immediate action. This does not mean that we could do it even now (I can simply assume one of the rapporteur or government). After all, we have seen everything today, so wanting is power. I think the rules, when you want to achieve a goal, are frequently waived. As far as Commissioner management is concerned, among the proposals put forward we have one which has received the attention of Casa Italia and other representatives. I am referring to the three-year programme - it is a proposal that I have already carried out since 2018 - for the commissioner structures, especially those responsible for post-sysm reconstruction. The purpose of the chronoprogramma is clearly intuitable: we would have a programming and in principle we could have a projection of how the funds would be clearly spent. We can talk about a sort of preventive and then final action: what was planned and planned at the end of the third year was actually achieved? Have the funds been fully used? If not, how much has been used? We would have objective indicators on the request for an extension of a commissioner's structure in order to support it or not. Article 16 provides for the extension of all Commissioners' structures. Then, on the basis of the wishes and indications that we have collected, we have also made proposals for an early deadline. This was a reading of the common feeling and not a particular intervention. (17.30) (Followed by DRAGO). I would've done it. I really hope that the majority will take into account what I have represented and that it will be consistent with the attention given to the territories that it has so far expressed in words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u192	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u193	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Unfortunately for some of my colleagues I will be repetitive today, because for a couple of days in the Commission perhaps they hear me say the same things all the time. Here we are now discussing the conversion of Decree-Law No 121, the Infrastructure Decree, about which some of the members of the parliamentary groups, starting with the rapporteur (who I have heard repeating this concept now), complain that there has been too little time to examine the text, as Article 72 of the Constitution would require. But I say one thing (I said it in the Commission and I repeat it here): all my colleagues asked the government next time to stop doing it. In all their speeches, the Commission's fellow senators have extended their hands, pitifully pardoning the Government, which will give us a little more time for the next time. No, that's not how it works: rights are claimed, you don't complain; no one can give you a right if you don't get it; otherwise, it's a concession, not a right. [[Applause]] So it is useless for the rapporteur, Mr Astorre, to complain today. No, it's not okay. There is a system and it is to tell the government that we need time to examine the measure in depth, article by article and amendment by amendment. [[Applause]] This, if it does not happen, involves an abdication in respect of an object of which the individual Member, Member or Senator, is not available. We cannot abdicate to our duty to examine the articles, because the Constitution requires us to do so. We can examine them quickly and do everything we need to be quick, quick and quick, but we cannot abdicate to objects we do not have available. Having said that, the most sensitive part of the whole measure, in my view, is Article 7, which I and no one else spoke of in the Commission. Even the government hasn't given me an answer in the person of the undersecretary Cancelleri here. What did I say? What's important in this article 7? On this basically I believe that colleagues cannot fail to agree. Article 7 actually poses a legal fiction: through it it is pretended, in essence, that between Alitalia and ITA there is not a transfer of company or branch of company, but only of individual goods or of their parts. Let's take an example: if we admitted that the whole thing is the airplane, here we would be talking about the airplane cart or parts of that good, that is, bolts. Here, the contract between Alitalia and ITA is probably about bolts, so it is true that in this way it is possible not to apply Article 2112 of the Civil Code, which is also the implementation of a Community directive. What does Article 2112 say? Very simply it says that, when there is the sale of a company or a branch of a company - and here we pretend that there is not - the company, which is composed of capital goods and human resources, must continue to be composed of capital goods and contracts related to those human resources, for which the contracts are given away. Article 2112 provides that workers' contracts shall be transferred to the transferee. The objection which can be made - and which has not been made in the Commission, because they have not responded to this - is that the European Commission has asked us for discontinuity. Great, but what is discontinuity? Who tells us what it is? The European Commission itself, in its letter of 21 January 2021, which is not secreted, with regard to discontinuity clarifies that there must be a difference between the entities that make up Alitalia's corporate asset and those that make up the corporate asset (i.e. the members) of ITA. What Europe is therefore rightly asking for is a differentiation between the two entrepreneurs, not between the two companies, which would be impossible, because there is the sale of the company. All right, let's pretend we don't know these things, and let's see what Article 7 says, which doesn't refer, for example, to this letter, to these decisions and to these indications of the European Commission. On the contrary, it refers to an act of the European Commission - in this case, a decision or a secondary measure of European standardisation - secreted. Let's talk about a secret act. The House of Deputies had asked for this act to be presented immediately. Having failed to succeed my colleague Fassina in the House, I did the same thing here in the Senate. I have been told that this act is not ostensible and will be known once it is published in the Official Journal of the European Community. We are therefore transforming into law a measure which, then we shall see, strongly harms the rights of workers and trade union relations, which are totally nullified, on the basis of a secret act which the Italian Parliament and the Italian citizens cannot know. But do we realize or not that this is a vulnus, a clear violation of the procedural rules that the Constitution imposes on us to make laws? What does the Constitution say? He says that every Member of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, when assessing a measure must examine it and, with dignity and honor, must do all his work. The examination of a measure, therefore, cannot ignore the knowledge of the presuppositions, which are also an interpretative vehicle. Therefore, if anyone really wanted to say that he is exercising his mandate in science and conscience, as Senator Astorre said earlier, he should recognize that he cannot have science, since he does not know the presupposition. As I said, this involves a huge vulnus on the formation of the law that the Constitutional Court will have to judge. Secondly, having broken to the bolt, as I said before, the sale of the company means that each of the workers - and I am not talking about the last worker, but about Alitalia's pilots themselves - is before the employer even a miner who in 1800, leaving the British mine, is in front of the master (here are the parties that call for the protection of the job) who says to him: I don't like you, you have been too often among the trade unionists; I take the other. Mr President, I shall conclude. It cannot be allowed that at this point, in labour law and union relations, there is no possibility of mediation. The worker is alone faced with the arrogance and absolute supremacy of the employer, who imposes a 55 percent reduction in the salary for Alitalia pilots - pardon, for ITA pilots - with a mountain hours brought up to sixty monthly hours. This is ignoble these days. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator De Falco. DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I have concluded and thank you for the extra time you have given me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u194	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I am interested in a part of this legislation which may seem partial, but which is actually relevant to the overall spirit of the measure. I refer to Article 12, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, thanks also and above all, if you will allow me, to an amendment, which has then grouped together others, tabled by the Forza Italia Group. Thanks to this amendment, my Region, that is Umbria, and the Marche have been inserted as Regions in transition in order to be able to access the Fund competitions, design and ideas for territorial cohesion, so as to immediately compensate for the deficits of local planning and involve professionals in the identification of projects. Clearly, we are talking about projects linked not only to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but also to the Development and Cohesion Fund and the Complementary Fund. We are not talking about a few resources, but about important resources, amounting to EUR 50 billion, which are certainly relevant for certain territories. I would like above all to say, in this regard, that during the various hearings held on the PNRR very often Members from the areas of Central Italy had pointed out that they were at risk, crushed on the one hand by the percentages of the territorial distribution of the Fund (20% and 80%), and on the other hand by the fact that there was still a prevalence vis-à-vis the South. With the adoption of this amendment, with the revision that has been made and above all with the recognition that Umbria and the Marches are Regions in transition, we have managed to balance the situation a little more, from an infrastructural point of view. We are talking about resources divided between 2021 and 2022. Therefore, precisely, the total allocation of this fund, broken down in the two-year period, is approximately €16 million for 2021 and about €145 million for 2022. As I said, they are funds mainly for municipalities with a total population of less than 30,000 inhabitants, included in the Southern Regions plus Umbria and Marche; then, for municipalities with a total population of less than 3,000 inhabitants included in the internal areas - considering that obviously these are in all the Regions, including Umbria and Marche - and then clearly to metropolitan cities and provinces. A precise classification of demographic differentiations has also been made. In essence, even if the various problems that may arise, the amendment is certainly relevant to the areas of the center, because it captures not only the problems of the regions and the internal areas, but also the importance of the connection and the necessary equation when we talk about uniform development. I'll give you one more example for the central area. In the decree-law whose conversion we are going to approve there are procedures of rapidization; in particular, I would like to remind you that, between the planned works, there is also the director Orte-Falconara, which of course has a value not indifferent to the connection that passes through Lazio, Umbria and the Marche. It is an urgent measure, but it must be read, in my opinion, in conjunction with a series of rules that have been announced - I think, for example, to school buildings and kindergartens - and that we will find in the budgetary maneuver that is coming to the Senate, which must also be linked to the 30 billion of what we have called a bottom, which has always served for an overall design. What do I mean in summary and in conclusion? Maybe we pass under so many decree-laws that sometimes we look at the detail and we miss the general plan; but if we try to frame them together with a minimum of attention and patience, in addition to the particular issues or however territorial - today I have spoken of my Region, Umbria - there is clearly a picture within which a whole series of resources (those of complementary and cohesion funds, of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience and of the so-called Bottom) are directed towards the logic of the development of the areas that are behind and that obviously must be modernized, because this can guarantee that stable growth to which the Government points, as it has stated on many occasions. I certainly thank you for this kind of measure, which has a meaning and a logic especially if you read, as I said, even looking back at the bottom and looking ahead to the budgetary maneuver. I repeat that, thanks to the changes made to the House, certainly the regions in transition, which seemed more neglected and even in part limited, found instead their specificity in Article 12, as has been reworded. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u196	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u197	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying the rapporteur's words to myself, because we are actually continuing a drift which is absolutely not fair and correct, changing the role of the Senate and tightening the time available to examine the measures. The time for discussion, which is necessary in order to be able to work well and fruitfully in the Commission, is being compressed. There is a problem in all this: in the end, the government is not the channel with the citizens, because those who then take the calls of citizens who have problems are us. We are their reference on the territory and it is we who take all their complaints, that are rightly addressed to us perhaps also for the delays of the Government (as in the implementing decrees that must issue, for example, on the increase of materials and on the possibility of giving a bit of refreshment and liquidity to all the various companies of the territory). We're the ones who get all these complaints, and the phone calls come every hour of the day from desperate people. [[Applause]] This must end: the Senate must assume its role and be treated with the dignity it deserves. On the substance of the measure, this decree-law on transport and infrastructure has many lights and some shadows, also because it is basically an omnibus decree, but there are many good things, thanks to the adoption of old amendments and new suggestions. But one question also arises: why are the amendments that we continue to table ignored when they come from the House and are then taken up cyclically by the Government? That's something else you can't really understand. [[Applause]] Two examples: the first is the revision of heavy goods vehicles, which we have been trying to carry on for three years (the last time here in the Senate, with an amendment removed at the last moment); the second is civil liability for scooters, another battle, always mine, that we have been carrying on for at least two years. There's a lot more. Then, of course, from the House came some positive changes and in the Senate we tried with some agenda (which, as we all know, can be fresh water or a little more tightening). We have tried to do something more stringent, but it is certainly not entirely binding. Now, however, it is the Government that will have to keep the promises it has made and actually commit itself to welcoming these important agendas. We want to ask again, because really, as the Senate is treated at this moment, it can only be a pact between gentlemen that binds us in these moments. In the contents the measure contains some interesting norms: for example, we define Turin-Lion a strategic work, of which we are absolutely convinced, but we continue to tolerate the attacks that are made by the social centers or by a certain part of the country to the yards and to see that they are always the usual ones to make them and that there is no unanimous condemnation, which is very serious. [[Applause]] That is what happens with the attacks on the League's premises: they destroyed them even a couple of days ago in Como, but I have not seen any heartfelt demonstrations of solidarity from Parliament. It seems strange to me, sincerely, because violence is such on one side and on the other, not only in a single sense. Having said that, there are good things in this provision, such as the rules on the parking of disabled people, mothers with children and pregnant women or on decorum, with higher fines for those who abandon waste, another really incredible problem that we have in some areas of Italy. We do not understand how, in 2021, there can still be mountains of garbage on the side of the road, especially in some areas and in some parts of our beautiful islands, which are defaced in this way. Other common rules are those on driving safety, on the use of the plate under test, on incentives for driving licences for young people of type C and type D, on scooters or on motorway and water infrastructure. Excellent are those on the Olympics or on the roads of Sardinia, always to stay on the islands. Sardinia, moreover, is an island still suffering from a serious infrastructural backwardness that prevents it from developing as it should due to the lack of suitable roads and railways. In addition, facilities are also provided for the use of PNRR funds. The text therefore presents a lot of lights, a lot of welcome things. Certainly positive is the measure that provides the incentive for cars, however we must make a reasoning and understand once and for all: in Italy 40 million vehicles are circulating and in ten years of incentives, from about 2012, we have replaced about 4 million. How can we think of totally replacing with the electric the circulating park that is in Italy? We have more than 11 million vehicles with classifications from euro 3 to euro 0, 11 million vehicles euro 4 and another 12 or 13 million with classification euro 5 or euro 6. Do we want to change at least the most polluting vehicles euro 0, euro 1, euro 2 and euro 3? Do we want to make serious incentives or do we think that the electrician is the panacea of all evils? [[Applause]] I say this because we produce energy, but we don't have enough and we buy it from abroad. We produce it in various ways and the renewables one is a small part, it doesn't even get to half. We have endless charging times, the columns are missing; in summer we had even three or four years ago periods when blackouts occurred because the river Po was dry and in the central hours of the day there were problems with electricity. Are we kidding or are we serious? We are going to encourage cars that do not pollute and in this sense the measure of Minister Giorgetti with which funds are allocated on new cars euro 5 or euro 6, but let us try to get out of demagogy and do something really useful. That being said, I come back to my conclusion at the beginning of my speech, namely that we are the way forward with citizens and territories. Mr President, I also appeal to you to stop a certain practice which does not allow us to make our contribution, which is useful and sometimes helps to improve the measures. I consider it pointless that our times should be continually compressed in this way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u198	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and timetable until 12 November. For the so-called sea-saving bill, already on the agenda for today's sitting, the Conference of Leaders unanimously decided a short referral back to the Commission, maintaining its headquarters, for a verification of the text and the postponement of the discussion by the Assembly as the first item on the next week's timetable. At tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 10.30 a.m., the debate on the decree-law on sustainable infrastructure and mobility, approved by the House of Deputies, will continue. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Economic Development and Justice. The next week's calendar, with sessions starting from Tuesday 9 November until Friday 12, if necessary, provides for discussion of the following measures: the bill saves the sea, from the drawing up office; the decree-law concerning safety at work and green certification Covid-19; the decree-law on the containment of price increases in the electricity and gas sectors. In addition, when forwarded by the Government in good time by the draft budget law, the President will make communications to the Assembly pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The budget session will begin from then on. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Wednesday 10 November, from 3.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u199	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the schedule of proceedings until 12 November: [[Thursday, November 4, h. 10,30 - Follow-up to draft law n. 2437 - Decree-Law n. 121, Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expired on November 9) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (15 hours)]] [[Tuesday, November 9 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1571 and related - Law SalvaMare (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2394 - Decree-Law n. 127, Work security and green certification COVID-19 (expires on 20 November) - Drawing of law n. 2401 - Decree-Law n. 130, Containment of price increases electric sector and gas (expires on 26 November) - Communications of the President, pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Regulation, on the draft budget law (*) (if transmitted in good time) Wednesday 10 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 11 " h. 9,30 Friday 12 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] (*) After the President's Communications, the draft budget law will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. The Commission will have to submit its reports to the 5th Permanent Commission by Thursday 18 November. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2437 (Decree-Law No 121, Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2394 (Decree-Law No 127, Work Safety and Green Certification COVID-19) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2401 (Decree-Law No 130, Containment of electricity and gas price increases) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u200	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u201	Mr President, it is a shame not to see Minister Giovannini here today; we hope that he will work in Glasgow, at COP26, to defend infrastructure and sustainable mobility, as the name of his ministry. You'll still see our speeches. We remember that in the decree-law to our examination there are acceptable and positive norms, but there are other norms, among other things probably even the most substantial ones, that concern us not little. The key issue is in fact what concerns the motorway concessions, which unfortunately in the measure before our examination is dealt with in a way too favorable to the colossus of the tollgate. But let us start from the beginning because it is essential that anyone who follows my speech, even outside the Chamber, has the opportunity to frame the subject. What are motorway concessions? They are conventional contracts between the State that grants a public good, in this case a motorway, and a private entity that takes possession of it. I say possession because I have a little knowledge of the cause. These contracts last decades, thirty-forty years, and until 2018 they were secrets, but not in the parts you could know, the most important ones, that is, the ones on money; how they earned and why you didn't know. The K factor was in another annex to the contracts. In addition to being conventional contracts between the State and the private sector, these ten-year contracts must be updated every five years with the so-called economic-financial plans, which specify the investments to be made and the fees to be paid. Everything must of course be done in compliance with the law and then with the resolution made by the Regulatory Authority for Transport (ART). In this case the law to be respected is the so-called Genoa decree and the resolution that has implemented article 16 of the aforementioned provision, which has brought a real revolution in the matter of the management of the highways, a reversal to the exclusive advantage of the road users, with more investments especially in maintenance and lower tolls. Above all, at last, with a control that returns, a real control from the state on the investments and the consequent tolls, new rules that could be, indeed, unfortunately, could have been - I explain then the reasons - summarized as follows: did you not make the investments planned? Bad, you have to block the increase in tolls or reduce tolls to people who use highways and at the same time pay penalties. This is what should have happened, starting when? From now on, from tomorrow, from 2022? No, since January 1, 2020. All this if only politics had done its duty. Instead, from 2012 to today, it has done nothing but to shield the colossus of the tollgate from the application of the new rules. How did politics get rid of these billionaire tollbooth giants? By postponing its entry into force, exactly as the measure does to our examination. So it is good that today the Italians know that these conditions are much more advantageous for them - the Italians, not the dealers - have not yet implemented them and that the measure extends its entry into force for the fourth time, for the fourth semester since they were supposed to enter into force, on January 1, 2020, until 2022. Already we fear that there will be another decree a thousand extensions, like you, President Calderoli, knows better than I myself, ready to do the same, extending further, thus in fact killing the revolution contained in the so-called Genoa decree. We ask the Minister of Infrastructure Giovannini and the Government all, in the person of the President of the Council Draghi, to no longer extend the entry into force of the decree Genoa. [[Applause]] It is unacceptable in fact that after more than three years from the collapse of the Morandi bridge, the dealers are all managing and, I can say squeamish, our public highways according to the much more favorable conditions, for them, before the collapse of the Morandi bridge. That's the situation. As if it wasn't already heavy enough to digest what I just said, in the measure we also have the extension - because you don't have to miss anything these giants - of two years to subconcessionaries, those for which you go to make gasoline inside the gas station on the highway or go to the Autogrill to eat your Camogli sandwich. Tendentially there is still the Benetton family behind Autogrill society. But above all, extending the conditions of fuel and refreshment subconcessions in the Autogrill by two years also means farewell to the revolution of the self-charging columns within the highways. [[Applause]] And as if that were not enough - because it is not enough, even if we said that there is some good "normetta," but the fat is not good - in this decree-law the first motorway concession of the history of the Italian Republic is cancelled completely public: the A22. It was the summer of 2019 when the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning decided the birth of the new convention, which entrusted the motorway to a completely public subject. This meant not only having members exclusively public, but above all end of a management aimed at making money, many, many, to be divided between shareholders (public or private that they were did not change anything) and beginning of the management in favor of the citizens, with more investments in maintenance and safety and lower tolls. A real revolution, that was to start from the summer of 2019, but that, after more than two years, was left first firm and today, with this measure, buried, dead, caput, killed. A ugliness that no one talks about, because there are too many and too powerful those who benefit from it. If the new concession had started, as agreed in 2019, important investments would have already started and tolls lowered. Who attacked me when I said in 2019 that I wanted a completely public highway, the A22, I hope that today, perhaps with some synapses activated, I understood what it was; and a little 'you should be ashamed, along with the politicians who in these weeks and these days have put down this extraordinary project of first completely public highway, without dividends, but with all the profits that return to the territories. Do you know how they buried it? Going to the project financing project, that the history - of Berlusconian memory - of the objective law has proved to be a total failure. [[Applause]] Let us continue to analyze the decree-law so as not to outrun over time. In the midst of some good rules - we have to say - there is also a gem, Mr President, which we must analyse, because it leads to a confusion that is, to say the least, extraordinary. After the heavy "helps" (let's call them so) to the powerful dealers, it suddenly appears, when no one expected anything, a norm that, seen this way, would have revolutionary. I am referring to the creation of a public company, ANAS Autostrade, created to allow public management of motorways, with direct allocation, so-called in-house. If one read only this rule, forgetting the favors and the "helps" to the billionaire dealers, he would jump from happiness, saying that finally a public subject is created able to remove the hen from the golden eggs from the hands of some "prenders" (without "im") of State. [[Applause]] If that were the reason for this rule, he would find myself and all the Movimento 5 Stars ready to defend with sword treats the Minister in this brave and just initiative of repubblization of the public highways. Too bad, however, we have some doubt that this revolution finds the foundation in the previous articles and therefore cannot appear - we hope to be wrong - only necessary to a sort of accounting transaction between ANAS Autostrade and the remaining part of ANAS, which remains in the holding Ferrovie dello Stato. But let's hope we're wrong. What I have told you is the true story contained in this decree-law within the framework of the motorway concessions and very few will tell you, because only the one who still defends citizens from the logic of maximizing profit in the use of the Italian highways, that - I remember - were built with the money of our fathers and our grandparents, public money that we paid. [[Applause]] The moment is not easy, especially after the failure to revoke the concession to Aspi of the Benetton family. But we can't stop fighting and denouncing what's wrong, even if that means going against national narration, so with this government everything always goes well. I conclude by saying that it is very difficult to accept some - I stress, some - parts of this measure, because they could (in fact, we almost have the certainty) ruin what was done good before. For this reason we ask for two precise interventions, in order to remedy the errors of the last two years, decree Giovannini included: first, the stop to the extensions of the economic-financial plans with the consequent entry - finally - into force of the so-called decree Genoa; second, the use of ANAS (since we created ANAS Autostrade as a company in public house) as manager of the Italian highways, starting just from the A22. [[Applause]] I shall end my speech, Mr President. You govern for all citizens, for the supreme good of the community; you first help the last, in this case the road users, and not those who received more than they had to manage a public good. And among these first are the very powerful, the giants of the toll booth - I know something about it, indeed I know so much - that they appear, alas, to be back - and this decree-law confirms it - more powerful than the State itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u202	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u203	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only agree with what Mr Campari said in the preamble and also in the conclusions. This House should have time to work a little more on the measures and decree-laws that come from the government, because it is certainly capable of improving them. [[Applause]] Having said that, I want to deal with the themes exquisitely from the technical point of view and always look at the glass half full. Several and varied are the themes addressed by this decree-law on infrastructure. I would just like to mention a few issues which I think have perhaps been neglected in the past and others which I think are of great importance, starting with the amendments to the road code aimed at strengthening the issue of safety. There are also investments and new safety procedures in the water road infrastructure sector, with particular reference - I should like to stress this - to artificial invades created by the construction of barriers or dams. It is an extraordinary heritage, which on average has from fifty to one hundred years of life and for some barriers we go even further, but that has not been affected in recent years by the necessary and no longer procrastinable maintenance operations. The management project's rules for the disposal, detachment and detachment of artificial invades are integrated and modified. I would like to remind you that disengagement measures are absolutely necessary to ensure the very functioning of an artificial invader, the maintenance of the invading capacity and also the quality of the water. In about 60% of the invades we have, water is used as a renewable source for the production of electricity and, very important fact, as a build-up of energy produced from renewable sources. The biggest problem we have is to be able to accumulate the electricity produced. The invaders also serve as reservoirs of accumulation and therefore also of accumulation of energy from renewable sources. This is also the least impacting system as a method of accumulation. Water is also used for hydropotable consumption, but also for irrigation of our fields to support the agro-food sector, which is a fundamental sector of our economy. This has always been the case, but especially in recent years, in which the brand Italy continues to go well. I would like to focus on the issue of infrastructure maintenance, also referring to the road and motorway network, built with the work and sacrifice of our ancestors. This network today requires urgent extraordinary maintenance everywhere, precisely because it did not intervene when it could be done with that type of maintenance that would be called ordinary. These issues are addressed with specific rules concerning the National Road and Motorway Infrastructure Safety Agency. It also intervenes in the field of railway infrastructures in order to accelerate the implementation of the National Plan for the implementation of the European system of management of the railway traffic management system (European rail traffic management system). I would like to stress that this is a system that will have to be extended to all railway lines and not just to European corridors, precisely because safety is a prerogative and a right of all passenger citizens. [[Applause]] We intervene and invest also in the field of the marine transport and improves and makes more sustainable the mobility of goods and passengers, as well as the territorial continuity to and from Sicily. The Centre for Innovation and Sustainability in Infrastructure and Mobility is set up at the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, which will support the glorious and historic Higher Council for Public Works. There is intervention in the air transport sector, including with changes to the procedures relating to Alitalia's extraordinary administration and the sale of Alitalia's business assets, trying to put an end to a long-standing and painful problem. There is also an intervention on the discipline of the facilitations for the purchase of low-emission vehicles, but I must point out that I remain a little puzzled about the continuing promotion of the production of new cars. Let us remember - we discussed this today in the Commission, industry, trade and tourism - that this is one of the sectors where huge quantities of raw materials are consumed. The subject would therefore deserve a serious in-depth study and evaluation carried out using the LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) method. The most important issue dealt with by the measure is, however, that of the procedures for implementing the PNRR, on which we play the future of Italy and Italians. We know the importance and extraordinary value of this investment plan and we need to build tools that need to work effectively. I think that first of all we must make a concrete analysis of what has not worked in Italy in recent decades and made our economy stagnant, despite the great work of many and the extraordinary inventiveness, the commitment and passion of many Italians. Of course, the large public debt accumulated in the two decades ranging from the early 1970s to the early 1990s was probably ballast, but the opportunity is certainly unique in this first quarter of the 21st century. The sense could be that we have also identified it if we talk about transition and transition to a commitment that is gradual and authentically directed towards respect for our planet. The road is steep and full of obstacles, but Italy and Europe, with a great sense of responsibility, have undertaken it. In order to relaunch the concrete process of territorial development, it is also expected to set up a competition fund, design and ideas for territorial cohesion for the Municipalities of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno and the internal areas of the Country. The Institute Rest in the South, aimed at promoting the development of entrepreneurial activities, is also spread to the smaller islands of the Centre-North. Another subject on which I would like to focus is the infrastructural equalization, based on the study and analysis of the country's infrastructure endowment and on the analysis of the atavico gap between the different geographical areas. I shall conclude with optimism. We only have to believe it, in the interests of all and above all of future generations; we just have to roll up our sleeves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u204	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u205	Mr President, I would like to speak about this measure with reference to an agenda which I have tabled and which I shall discuss at the end of the speech. I would now like to tell the story of 68 workers and their jobs. The story was born one hundred nine years ago, when our grandparents (or their fathers) built the cable car network of Savona, which connects the port to Val Bormida and in particular to the Municipality of Cairo Montenotte. It was, at the time, the longest air network in the world (18 kilometers) and was used to transport the goods. It was doubled in 1936 and made even more efficient. Paradoxically at the time the spirit with which he was born was different from what could be grounded today. There wasn't all the road transport there now and, therefore, that was one of those infrastructure necessary to avoid the length of the transport of the goods that landed at the port to go to the North of Italy. The clouds of 23 and 24 November 2019 actually caused the displacement of an important front, which also damaged the Turin-Savona motorway network with the collapse of a bridge and caused two pillars of the infrastructure to collapse. After two years this infrastructure is still down; it has not yet been rebuilt. In 2020 - Senator Margiotta is not present, but he was Undersecretary at the time - there was an almost unanimous rise of Parliament's shields and we played an important role in launching a measure that would make available for reconstruction, and therefore for the Commissioner appointed for reconstruction, as much as EUR 4 million and an integration fund that would allow the 68 workers to have a future. It is clear that at the time it was thought to be a little faster, but we are in Italy and we have arrived today. Perhaps a few days ago there was a glimpse, but he found a hiccup. This is almost paradoxical because in the first reading of this measure - I also complain that a single reading, although there are two Chambers, is an abnormal thing that perhaps should be reviewed - it was thought to have found a minimum solution because there was no fund for the call for tenders to start. It has happened that probably because of the desire to intestate something or to throw the heart beyond the obstacle - I like to think so - an amendment was tabled which, in the end, despite being the rapporteur's, did not find the light because it did not have financial cover. I tell this story because it is from my land and I feel it very much mine. The reformulation proposed not to do everything about post- and reconstruction and to limit ourselves to guaranteeing the integration fund, although it was guaranteed by an earlier amendment of the League. In this way, at least we would have safeguarded those EUR 990,000 that would have been used to start banishing the competition. Well, that was not the case either. Some Regional Councils of the Democratic Party have shown great joy and great relief for this amendment that has not seen the light. As someone said, that's the saying: don't say cat as long as you're in the bag and, therefore, we found ourselves worried. This infrastructure today is, in fact, technologically at the forefront because it is environmentally sustainable, because it somehow removes the truck from the road and makes them pass by air with the goods. I must thank the rapporteur, Senator Astorre, all the members of the Transport Committee of the League to which they have all joined, President Coltorti, Senator Margiotta and many others. Our agenda commits the Government at last, in the blackberries of the Ministry's funds or, if anything, at the latest in the budget law, to give this money so that the reconstruction of the cable cars can be implemented. Thank you all; cheer up the Savona cable car. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u206	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u207	Mr President, Undersecretary, the decree-law before us is important and full of useful measures that represent an investment accelerator of the PNRR. To the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility Giovannini, Deputy Minister Castelli and to you, Undersecretary, congratulations on a good job. At this time I want to concentrate on two amendments to thank also the rapporteurs and, in particular, the colleague who has done a great deal of work in the House for infrastructure and for relaunching Italy's PNRR. The first amendment concerns very much the Commission on feminicide and perhaps has little to do with infrastructure: I am referring to the ban on offensive messages and sexist messages in motorway signs. This is an important message, which is part of the strategy for preventing violence against women under the Istanbul Convention. Objectivization of women impressed on posters only feeds the wrong way of thinking that is the basis of violence. The second extraordinary work that has been done by the reporters - in this I am totally in discord with those who preceded me, in particular with Senator Toninelli - concerns the Brenner motorway. This motorway has an extraordinary history: it is a strategic link with Europe; more than 40% of Italy-Europe traffic passes from there; it is a strategic work in the TNT corridor; it is a work on which the PNRR invests so that it is transformed into a digital green corridor, which experiments hydrogen for the power of heavy goods vehicles. Not only that. It has a unique history because it is one in house of the territory. It was born in 1959, when ANAS did not want a motorway there, but the territories, the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, Trentino, South Tyrol, the municipalities of Trento and Bolzano strongly wanted it, they built it, they financed it with their own resources. This is how this unique jewel was born in Italy, well managed also from the infrastructural point of view, with the most modern equipment and experiments that there are in the field of infrastructure. This in such an atypical house needed a special legal dress in order to see its continuation and renewal of the concession. It took years, from 2014 to today, to find the right legal dress. We have seen article 13-a, with public aggregation, absurd for a society born from the territories as in atypical house. We have seen the almost antihistorical rule of the previous minister De Micheli, who wanted the expropriation of private partners, and, after four extensions, we have seen the right intuition: a public-private partnership that is a win-win operation, is a competitive race that allows this extraordinary company to invest across the territory crossed, setting in motion an economic flywheel that is exactly what the PNRR wants. We in Rome as a parliamentary delegation and I first fought a great battle for the A22. In Rome we have done a good job; now the witness passes to the territories, to the society, to the governors of Trentino-Alto Adige, that I hope are no longer divided between strategies that look to Veneto and strategies that look to South Tyrol, but they really think to do an excellent job to make this connection still great, because the connection is culture and dialogue and above all is NCR European. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u208	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u209	Mr President, we have here yet another very full-bodied decree-law (there are 200 pages). But at least, in homage to what the Constitution says and to what the Constitutional Court's judgments and the messages of the President of the Republic say, it should be homogeneous, because the title is very clear: Urgent provisions on investment and safety in infrastructure, transport and road traffic. Then there are some rules on the functionality of the competent Ministry, but - one might think - in short, we are there, for once we are inside the Constitution. But no, because even Article 1, which should be specifically devoted to urgent provisions for the safety of the movement of vehicles of specific categories of users, the House, with an amendment by the Presidents of the Environment and Transport Commissions, both members of the Democratic Party, without illustrating the amendment, without discussion, without analysis and without the opinions of the Commissions that would be more competent on these matters, introduces the same things as there were in the draft law Zan, rejected by the Senate with a democratic vote last week. It is, on the pretext that they are things that perhaps pass on the street, to ban any kind of billboard or form of advertising, which obviously also includes any kind of public announcement that can be made by a political party, an association, a religious group. It is prohibited on roads and on vehicles, so pay attention to what is written on cars, or any form of advertising whose content proposes sexist messages or offensive gender stereotypes (...)............................................................................................................................................................................... Who decides what is sexist, a word of which, in truth, is so widely used that it can be anything? And what are gender stereotypes? What's this? Who's judging? What are gender stereotypes? The woman who cooks is among the genre stereotypes? I suppose so, so there must always be a man who cooks and a man who cleans? Very well, there is nothing wrong with it, but that is imposed by law and that even the permission to advertise to those who have these posters posted is frankly a grotesque thing. The article continues by also providing for the prohibition of harmful messages of religious belief: since there are different creeds, if one in the car wrote "Jesus Christ is the son of God" - there are many who turn with the symbol of fish that means precisely "Jesus Christ the son of God" and so on - those who are not Christian can feel offended and we have already seen many of these cases. All this is included in a decree-law containing urgent provisions to re-launch infrastructure. Finally, according to the norm, discriminatory messages are forbidden with regard to sexual orientation and gender identity, just what many voices, even from the left and among those who agreed on the rest of the Zan bill, said that it would be a mistake to include it in the measure because gender identity means self-assignment of gender identity. On the basis of these things there are countries - I am not talking about strange countries, but about the United Kingdom, for example - in which you can no longer write than the tampons, typically intended for women for the special needs they have, are for women, because even a man can have menstruations: in fact, if a woman says she feels like a man, you can not give her a woman, because otherwise she is discriminatory towards her gender identity and being in reality a woman can have need of tampons. I could add a thousand other things like that. All this is included in the measure we are examining. Is this the way to make the laws, with amendments that have been treasoned in the Commissions that have nothing to do with certain issues? [[Applause]] It is a total shame to go against what has been decided in Parliament, and we should not discuss these matters again here because, having rejected the Zan bill, we should not touch them for six months. In any case, in the measure under discussion there are also rules that actually concern infrastructure. I listened to the intervention of the former Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, who spoke just now: since I have a limited number of minutes to intervene, I invite those who listen to me to go and review what former Minister Toninelli said, because he made a very heavy attack on the Government, accusing him of giving gifts to motorway dealers, especially to large ones, to extend the rules of justice that would allow to reduce tariffs and so on. I fully agree with what you said, although I fear that all these things will then be voted on tomorrow, when we get to the final vote, because it is part of the majority; however, we will see. I would add that there is indeed a series of rules that go to make further gifts: two years of extension, in essence, to the dealers of the grills, of the service stations, both from the fuel point of view, and from the food and catering point of view. I recall that the extension of concessions is prohibited by the European Union, but this Government is only pro-European at alternate stages. When Europe is comfortable, well; if it is not convenient, we do things on our own, preparing the great gift to the Benettons - these in comparison are precisely the change, not even the tip - which consists in paying 8 billion (more than the law would allow) the majority share of the company Autostrade by Cassa deposits and loans, at the expense of citizens, which for eighteen years will find deadly increases on the tariffs. There are also other things on which the Government does not respond regularly: the Brescia-Padova motorway concession was extended to the current manager on the basis of a document cancelled by the Council of State, cancellation confirmed by the Court of Cassation. The government not only doesn't do anything, but it doesn't answer questions. If this is the way of making decree-laws, we really have enough! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u210	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u211	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree-law that we are about to convert today undoubtedly presents important content and contains measures which, if well implemented, can have a significant impact on creating the right conditions for the recovery of our country. However, a necessary methodological premise is needed. It is, in fact, a measure whose provisions, since its adoption, stand out for a heterogeneous tendency in content: from changes to the road code to the rules on procedures for implementing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. This is the consequence of the attempt to respond to the many demands that this Government is facing at such a delicate stage; at the same time, however, there is the risk of returning the image of a legislator not only attentive to the requirements of a good technique of drafting the norms, but above all to the constitutional fact that, with reference to the decree of urgency, imposes the respect of the canon of homogeneity. And yet, we cannot fail to highlight the inevitable quota of the times that characterized the examination of the bill of conversion into the Senate. We are witnessing an undue compression of work in this House, thus inheriting a bad habit of previous governments: that of so-called alternating monocameralism, on which a clear reversal of the trend towards a more respectful approach to the centrality of the parliamentary debate is desirable. On the substance, the measure contains several novels to the road code, which were also the subject of numerous additions during the examination of the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, it is intended to stress that the safety and protection of human health, as well as the protection of the environment in road traffic, are among the primary social and economic objectives pursued by the State. Some important innovations should be reported with reference to the driving licence framework. There is no doubt that some important steps have been taken towards progressive and meritorious simplification. However, action could and should have been taken here to remedy the inconveniences that are affecting the schools of preparation for the achievement of nautical licences, which call for more time and greater certainty as to the scope of operation of the reform that introduced the new licence. With the measure under consideration, new and stringent rules on the use of electric scooters are finally introduced, waiting that until now their circulation - in exponential growth in all major urban centers - had not been subject to an organic discipline. The new rules, in addition to putting order to a phenomenon with a high impact on the city road, produced by a new category of road users, are also and above all aimed to drastically reduce the rate of road accidents, which is involved, sometimes, unfortunately, with fatal outcome, users from circulation. Moreover, as regards the accounting rules of local authorities, the deadline for deciding on budgetary changes is extended to 31 December 2021 where these changes are attributable to the proportion of resources transferred as a refreshment of the revenue decreases related to the epidemiological emergency, in order to ensure that these institutions exercise their fundamental functions. Finally, we are very much in favour of all those measures aimed at promoting infrastructure investment. Well, therefore, the norm that extends the areas considered of strategic national interest for the realization of the Turin-Lion railway line. With the measure under consideration it is previewed moreover the possibility to characterize ulterior retroportuali sites in the within of the simplified logistic zone of the port and retroporto of Genoa, with the opportunity to reappear in this way the areas of the astidian and the alessandrino. This is a regulatory innovation of primary importance for the territories involved and strategic for the entire national and European transport network, as it allows for a wider application of that system of procedural simplification and the various facilities provided for the special economic zones. A fundamental choice because it favours investments on intermodality, focusing on fast and efficient connections between railway network, ports and airports. I wanted to underline these passages because they seem to me important signs of a new perspective, a vision that recognizes the indispensable bond that exists between the revival of infrastructural investments and the development of the country system. Investment in public works is in fact a key driver for the recovery of economic activity, but much still needs to be done to increase those infrastructure settlements that have an immediate and positive impact on the local reality; interventions that are too often qualified as minor works and which are of fundamental importance also with a view to enhancing the principle of subsidiarity. A quick reconnaissance of some important realities of Piedmont allows to identify indispensable interventions, such as the works of adaptation of the railway station of Rivalta Scrivia, but also the tunnel of the Tent, the completion of the Asti-Cuneo, the ring road of Novara, the electrification of the Biella-Santhià, the foothills between Masserano and Ghemme. The decree-law in the conversion phase is obviously not limited to the above-mentioned interventions. Particular attention should be paid to innovations in the management of state highways under concession. The approval to the House of a government amendment paves the way for the establishment of a new company for the exercise of the aforementioned management activity through in-house custody. To the new company will be transferred functions and competences currently assigned to ANAS, with exclusive regard to state toll motorways. We are therefore faced with a complex measure that operates on different plans, in an attempt to address the many critical issues that afflict the country system. Nevertheless, there is no escape from a careful reader missed opportunities or interventions that, although properly undertaken, could have characterized themselves for greater courage and incisiveness. Support for the entrepreneurial fabric, which is now hard hit by the pandemic crisis, is one of the central objectives of public policy choices. To this end, however, politics must be able to make clear and precise choices and give itself priorities for the good of the country. The examination of this decree-law is therefore a valuable opportunity to reaffirm how the strengthening of the infrastructure system, which requires first and foremost serious and timely intervention of administrative simplification and increased spending capacity of the administrations, must represent one of the fundamental lines of action on which to focus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u212	Senator Barboni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u213	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, in many of the things I will say, I will repeat concepts already expressed by myself or some of my colleagues in this House. It is inevitable, because if we look at what has happened in these two days, we must point out that at 14 o'clock yesterday we received a decree-law to be converted by this weekend - because the technical terms are those - of 250 pages and 17 articles. What we are preparing to do is therefore essentially an act of faith in what the Government did before and the Chamber of Deputies after. I would like to thank the Under-Secretary for his willingness and colleagues in the Commission, as well as the rapporteur, for what we have managed to bring home in terms of address, agendas (someone ironically said that an agenda is not denied to anyone). On one of my agenda, in fact, there was a change that the Undersecretary Cancelleri announced at the Salone della nauticala, that is the fact that medical visits for the suitability for nautical licences were returned to private subjects, after the interministerial decree of 2008 - alas - of the Berlusconi Government. In the context of this procedure, in which we have been between yesterday and today, as members of the Commission and as parliamentarians, called upon to evaluate this draft law, I hope at least that we will be allowed the right to the mugno, the so-called ius murmurandi, on the substance and method. On the substance of the matter, a modus operandi has now been established in which the treatment of the draft law starts from a branch of Parliament and the measures are examined in the Commissions, in terms of hearings and examination of the amendments, there are defined and then the Assembly of the Chamber and that of the Senate are basically of the ratification of what has already been done by a small number of parliamentarians. It is understandable for some acts, the urgent ones, in particular for the Covid epidemic that we have experienced, but it is less understandable and less digestible to all as a standard of practice that has now consolidated in recent years. The second aspect that I would like to stress, given that going forward over the years you also become a little pedantic, is that strangely the omnibus decrees always pass to the Chamber of Deputies. I would not like this to affect the fact that our Presidency is generally very attentive to the extraneousness of the amendments and therefore the omnibus decrees-laws hardly get overwhelmed in the Senate, but much more easily in the House. Another aspect which technically concerns the Commission but also my person, being a 'road code operator', is the fact that in this parliamentary term, without prejudice to the bill on car seats, the 8th The Commission has virtually never dealt with the issue of the road code, which is within its competence, and I am frankly sorry for the professional and technical contribution that we could have made. I say this because when it comes to road code, it is always useful to recall the legislative decree of 30 April 1992. In fact, the code of the road in force, in its structure, is a legislation of 1992, which then has been updated and modified over time, sometimes also creating damage. I give two practical examples, so we understand each other. Article 119 (2 bis) of the current Road Code deals with medical examinations for diabetic patients and was introduced with the financial maneuver of 1996 (with regard to omnibus containers). That rule has created so much damage that in 2006 the Ministry of Health made an authentic interpretation, stating that medical visits must be carried out by the monocratic subjects referred to in article 119, paragraph 2. This rule is still in force and has been interpreted by a subordinate act; therefore, by the principle of the hierarchy of sources, if there were any dispute over that act, I do not know how the magistrate could resolve it. I add another more modern example. By Decree-Law No 132 of 2018, the so-called security decree of the yellow-green government, Article 93, paragraph 1-b, of the road code was amended. It is not a postal address, but it is simply about the circulation on the national territory of vehicles with foreign plates, by drivers with an Italian licence. This rule, which provided for derogations for the States of the European Union or the European Economic Area, was remedied yesterday by the law of a European delegation. I say this in order to make it clear how to intervene on the subject of the road code. I shall conclude this chapter by simply saying that there has been no possibility in this parliamentary term. In future, for those who will come after us, it is clear that we have also given indications in the Commission today. However, if the next parliamentary term were to update and amend the road code, it would be appropriate to do so at the beginning of the parliamentary term with serious, concrete work done that takes the necessary time, to which everyone can make a technical contribution and not a contribution of visibility, as is often the case. Since everyone has dealt with a small subject of the measure that will be voted on tomorrow, I would like to make a few small comments on electric scooters, quoting a few numbers. In the preparatory phase to the changes introduced to the Chamber of Deputies, which are something, as you said, Mr President, yesterday and I say this to you in the dialect of Romagna, because I represent Emilia-Romagna, the Piotost that gint, is mej piotost. This is the synthesis that has been made by the Transport Commission. In fact, the association of category and the organs of the State Police, given to the hand of road accidents on electric scooters, had asked many other things. We were asked for a mark, identification code or plate that was, the possession of the title of fitness for driving, at least the AM licence, the helmet for all, the means of high visibility, the prohibition of circulation in the night hours, the obligation of daylight; we find none of this in the final drafting of the text. I shall then end with the hope that in the next parliamentary term the road code will be put to the fore in a serious and articulate manner, of course reaffirming that, as a party, we will be absolutely in favour of the measure that will be voted on tomorrow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u214	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I would first like to share two issues with the other Members of the Commission. The first is thanks to the rapporteur, the Chancellors Secretary and the other members of the Commission for their work. Not even twenty-four hours of time for an important measure, which eventually contains everything and more. It's a very tight time. However, we have worked well in the Commission, but we have managed to bring something home, which is not exactly what we would have liked. We would have liked to have had a better look at the issues, we would also have liked to correct the mistakes that have occurred in the course of the measure. The work, however, was profitable, although there were only agendas, with the Government's promise to take seriously the approved proposals. I think they're proposals of common sense, like the ones we at the League are used to carrying on. I am thinking, for example, of extending to people with disabilities, suffering from cancer or serious illness, the exemption from the motorway toll for transfers, specialist medical visits and treatment, or the payment of the train ticket and the reduction of 50% for those accompanying them. I still think of the incentives to take the necessary licences for freight transport, as well as out of the House, without forgetting the transport of people. This is an important point, a fundamental deficiency affecting the drivers of heavy goods vehicles. This shortcoming can only be addressed by encouraging young people to cope with this type of work, bringing together labour demand and supply. There are other measures; the mandatory safety belts on the school buses, the allocation of resources for new hirings at the civil motorizations. We know, for example, in my province, Bergamo, but also in the neighbouring Provinces, I think of Como, what is meant by the very strong expectation of driving licences and revisions due to the lack of staff. The opportunity to extend the measures to the rest and to the south, as well as to the smaller islands, lagoons and lakes, also to the mountain municipalities. We cannot believe that our mountain municipalities are abandoned. [[Applause]] They are proposals of common sense that have taken forward the League and that have been approved as agendas; I really hope that with the commitment of the Government they can become reality. Within this measure, which comes from the other Chamber, there are really important commitments, which concern: the timely realization of the interventions of adaptation of the Olympic bob and sled track of Cortina d'Ampezzo, with an appropriation of 24.5 million euros; facilities for the society Infrastructures Milan Cortina 2020-2026; simplifications of the procedural iter and acceleration of the works previewed by the Plan. However, we cannot miss this opportunity. The Olympic Games represent an exciting challenge, an opportunity for the whole country, important to solve the junctions between our regions, which will serve, yes, for races, but also in the future for all our citizens. Keeping together more reality is a good opportunity to involve the territories and make sure that you do not miss this precious opportunity that is offered to us. Many other rules have been adopted, as other colleagues have also mentioned, such as parking spaces for pregnant women and parents of children up to two years old, the famous "pink stalls," which up to now were not completely normalized. There is also the regulation on the use of scooters. Probably what has been approved will not be enough. If it is true that, on the one hand, scooters are the green revolution (there is all this ideology about the fact that it is however a simple and green means of transport), on the other hand we must be careful that this green new does not become road rude, because for now what we have seen is this. [[Applause]] The issue of heavy-duty vehicle revisions, including for trailers and semi-trailers, has finally been resolved. There are novelties to understand in the category of vintage vehicles of interest and collectivism also mopeds and agricultural machines. There is a free parking area for disabled vehicles in paid parking spaces, if their stalls are occupied. I mean, there are so many important things. It was an opportunity, however, to be able to work as a Senate. We, with common sense, have agreed to be able to work even in such a short time. This is what distinguishes us: the common sense that we put on all the occasions that serve our citizens. I shall end my speech, Mr President, but remembering that I do not think it is acceptable to work this way anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u216	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u217	Mr President, the text of the decree-law contains a number of useful measures for the country, but my speech aims to focus on Article 2, in the section concerning the A22, the Brenner motorway, one of the best-managed motorways in Italy, which every year ensures to the granting of important dividends. Autostrada del Brennero is a company that has invested and continues to invest important resources in maintenance and safety, while also having to maintain alpine traits with extremely sharp slopes and landslides of large and small size. It is one of the best protected tracks for hydrogeological failure. But to this structure are connected two traits still to be realized, which have suffered a troubled process. It is the Campogalliano-Sassuolo and the Cispadana motorway. In particular, Cispadana is a work that should connect Ferrara and Modena and that, in the original idea of 1986, should have been an extra-urban road secondary to a lane by direction, then thought of as a free fast-driving road, but in 2006, that is twenty years later, it becomes a toll motorway and is expected to be realized with project finance, since the initial expenditure forecast is about one billion and 158 million euros, with the maximum regional contribution of 350 million. In fact, the Emilia Romagna Region allocated 150 million in 2007 and 200 million between April and November 2019. It is mainly for this infrastructure - I believe - that the decree-law speaks of project finance. I have to say, when I hear about project financing, there's always a wake-up call. In the country a long series of infrastructures have used the project finance and it is easy to verify the results, which usually consist in the lengthening of the times of realization and that, often even greater, of the costs. A striking example is the Brebemi (Brescia-Bergamo-Milan), sixty-two kilometres long, realized in the forecast that the A4 motorway, which reached the same locations, was not enough to support a traffic of about 100,000 cars per day, with peaks up to 140,000, including 40,000 heavy vehicles. The pre-feasibility study dates back to 1996, the feasibility study dates back to 1999-2000 and the final project approval dates back to 2009; the work ended in 2014. The initially estimated cost was EUR 800 million, but at the opening it had reached EUR 2.439 billion, of which EUR 700 million was paid by the European Investment Bank and EUR 820 million by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. The cost of the toll of Brebemi is 15 cents of euros per kilometer, compared to the 7 cents of the A4 motorway, required to support investments but that have prevented its use. Instead of the 60,000 vehicles deemed necessary to support the investment, there are an average of 20,000 vehicles. In order to bear the costs, the State financed EUR 300 million under the heading "Interconnection Fund for motorway sections" (20 million from 2017 to 2031). It is clear that the motorway, which should have been fully financed by private individuals, has been paid by the State and to date is not supported by the revenues of the tariffs, which are twice as much as those of neighbouring A4. It is to be asked on the basis of which evaluations the projects have been approved both by the project company Brebemi, controlled by Autostrade Lombarde for almost 87 percent, which had dealt with the design, management and implementation of the work, as well as by the Cassa depositi and loans for the granting of part of the financing. A further extremely problematic work for which project finance has been used is the Venetian pedemontana. Inserted in the regional transport plan of the Veneto of far 1990, it has seen the beginning of the intense activities in 2011. The work was supposed to cost €2.4 billion, but it went up to €3 billion in 2018; some newspapers suggest that you can even reach €13 billion. The work should have ended in 2020, but of the original project's ninety-five kilometers, only twelve have been carried out so far. The chronicles, also judicial, showed very heavy irregularities in the realization of sections especially in the gallery, where between Malo and Castel Gomberto in 2016 lost his life a worker for the collapse of the time due to the use of unsuitable materials. Meanwhile, in 2013 the Veneto Region allocated 615 million euros and another 300 million in 2018. So much for project financing! Another shining example that often rises to the honours of the chronicle is the Lombard foothills, which is another case of how the State often pays. The work, which includes a journey of ninety-seven kilometers, started in 2009 and so far only 30% of it has been realized. The project, approved by CIPE, provided for a total cost of 4 billion, of which 1,2 was borne by the State, but the concessionaire provided only 500 million. After the start of the work, the percentage of financing within the State has risen to 80%, and now a bridge loan of 200 million from the banks shareholders is expected, at a reduced rate of 7%. One of the main problems, apart from an investment that has not yet been finalized, was that in 2009 the expropriations of the land started, which involved over 12,000 citizens; a real expropriation of the rights, because the law would impose that an expropriation cannot be suspended for more than seven years. But the Lombard motorway concession company (CAL) has extended the term by more than two years, and then, with the arrival of the Covid, another two years: an act of absolute gravity, because to pay the consequences of this pirate management are the Lombard citizens. The development of the public-private partnership and therefore of project financing is mainly linked to major infrastructure projects, particularly transport projects. But by drawing the sums, in Italy until today this instrument has not worked or has worked very little. The instrument, created to facilitate the construction of public works by entrusting the investment to private individuals and rewarding them through concessions and collections of fees, has not achieved the intended objectives. The state, in fact, has always been forced to increase its financial commitments, while private individuals have often been blocked by bureaucratic delays, and the litigation, which punctually originates, extends further the time. It is necessary to apply the formula of project finance to public infrastructure interventions that turn out to be really feasible, that are of high public interest and that can guarantee an adequate profitability of the project. In operating practices contracts are often found in which public intervention is high, even exceeding half the value of the work. This is an improper use of the contract, also in relation to the parameters established at Community level. The Court of Auditors has found that when the public contribution is more than half of the value the contracts put in place can no longer be considered attributable to the species typical of the legislator, ending to have the only name of the project financing, but legal nature completely different, ending similarly in case the local institution becomes guarantor with the lender, usually a banking institution, regarding the granted credit to the promoter. In this way, the function of project financing, which cannot be reduced solely to a technique for financing public works, is degraded, but must also allow private individuals, at least in part, to transfer the risks related to the successful outcome of the project. [[Applause]] It is therefore recommended that the Ministry evaluate carefully the path of realization of this, as of many other works in the country. The 5 Star Movimento will follow these procedures carefully to try to avoid unfinished works and above all waste of public money. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u218	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. Pending the opinion of the Budget Committee, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u221	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Health and Health, the draft law No 2255, laying down provisions for the treatment of rare diseases and the support of research and production of orphan drugs, was unanimously adopted. The unified text is the result of long, articulated and synergistic work by the Commission and the Government. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Binetti, for the fruitful work she has done and all the Commissioners from the various political forces for their contribution to achieving a long-awaited goal. Rare diseases, grouped together, concern only about 2 million patients in Italy. The concept of rarity is therefore relative. I would like to remind you that rare diseases represent a heterogeneous group of complex pathologies in diagnostic recognition, multiform in clinical manifestations and difficult in the therapeutic approach. The issue is a political priority and a need to be addressed for our National Health Service. We must finally provide concrete answers to people with rare diseases and adequate support for their families. The approved text, the result of important work and a synthesis effort, places an important part in contributing more and better to the treatment of rare diseases and in support of the research and production of orphan drugs, receiving the suggestions and inputs of associations and scientific societies. It provides for the extension of neonatal diagnostic screenings, regional organisational plans linked to the National Plan for Rare Diseases and a more homogeneous and better organisation throughout our national territory. It is clear that everything can be improved. The law passed today represents only the beginning of a path, yes, difficult, but capable of creating welfare uniformity and concrete responses to fragile citizens and their families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u224	BOTTO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we heard the shocking news of the seizure of the Morandi Bridge in Catanzaro in the context of the operation called "Brooklyn" of the anti-mafia prosecutor led by the prosecutor of the Republic Nicola Gratteri, to whom I thank for the exceptional commitment to the service of our country. The investigation led to the arrest of four people, plus the seizure with the faculty of use of the viaduct Bisantis and the gallery Sansinato. The seizure on the bridge already banned from heavy traffic was necessary in order to carry out the necessary investigations to guarantee its safety as a result of what emerged from the interceptions. From these, in fact, emerge shocking and serious phrases that denounce the use of poor materials as mortar instead of concrete, as well as complaints for the reduced profit margins and for the anti-mafia controls to which the contracting company and its owners had been subjected. The various subjects, investigated in various ways, according to the interceptions, would have used a material so bad quality to bring down everything and this applies also to the decree-law that we are now dealing with in the Senate. The arrests and seizure of the Morandi bridge are part of a broader and more worrying framework, linked to controls and monitoring and to the checks that concessionaires should constantly foresee throughout the national territory. There is a really alarming state of management of public affairs and it is in everyone's eyes as the current conditions of most of the national highway network every day that passes become increasingly worrying in terms of safety, service and traffic. In particular, I refer to the Ligurian network, which is the protagonist of endless, often stopped construction sites, road breaks that damage both economic operators and the lives of citizens and those highways, however, every day in the midst of every kind of inconvenience and impossibility of planning everyday journeys that should be a obvious element in the lives of all of us. In a country that stands on the international scene as one of the most developed in the world, so much so that I have just hosted the G20, I think it is unacceptable that this type of business still finds space. As a genoese and senator, however, I cannot help but think about the issue of revocation, how important it would have been to fully respect the political commitment made and restore that relationship of trust between citizens and politics that is deteriorating and interrupting just as happens to our infrastructures. However, it seems to me that right now, with the extension to the application to the Genoa decree, the extension of the subconcessionary highways and the cancellation of the concession to the A22 highway, this is not happening. I shall conclude by saying that I will be asking a question precisely to shed light on these facts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u227	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, in Sicily the price of milk granted to producers is much lower than that of water and, in particular, in the province of Enna, where, as I have denounced several times, the cost of the highest water resource in Italy is paid (about EUR 4 per cubic metre). The ranchers are exhausted. Today the milk is paid 38 cents per litre, but the increase in energy costs and the increase in raw material prices are bringing several producers to their knees, zeroing the gains and creating a constant structural loss. Paradoxically the more they produce, the more they get in debt. In the first six months of this year the average loss on the national sector amounts to approximately 250 million euros. It has long been denounced by the trade associations engaged in the technical table set up at the Ministry of Agricultural Policies whose work we hope will be a quick and positive outcome. Minister Patuanelli, who spoke in the Chamber of Deputies on initiatives to support farmers, said that the issue of the selling price is not an element that can escape the policies of the government. We ask the chain for a gesture of co-responsibility in order to increase the cost per litre to the stable. We believe that there is space, since the reduction of feed costs for the raising of 3 cents of the price to the barn. The dairy companies and the large-scale organized distribution on which the increase in energy is due do not seem, unfortunately, willing to accept increases in the price of the raw material and this is creating some delays on the work of the ministerial table. This attitude keeps under check the farmers whose condition is aggravated by the import of milk and semi-finished products from Eastern Europe at the expense of quality and healthy competition, irreparably damaging the food excellence of Made in Italy. For weeks the situation has changed, so much to risk the crisis to the entire sector, especially in the South of Italy. For example, in Puglia, in the last year, some 121 farms have ceased their activity. It is essential that producers make arrangements and that trade associations play their role with determination and authority. Government and Parliament will play their part, acting on a regulatory level, allocating more resources through supply chain contracts and with interventions to support the sector already by the next budget law. But I remain convinced that it is necessary to define a minimum production price, while respecting the free market, which recognises fair compensation to Italian farmers, giving dignity to their work and without burdening the final cost to the consumer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u228	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-374.ana.u229	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 4 November, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.16 p.m.)
