ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 29 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 30 April 2021 Dear President, I inform your Lordship that with decrees of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, after approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to article 10, paragraph 3, of law 23 August 988, n. 400, of the delegation of functions conferred by the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, has been attributed the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicastery sen. Mr Teresa BELLANOVA and Mr Alessandro Morelli. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u5	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the session of constitution of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on activities related to family communities that receive minors, already scheduled for today, at 9 am, is convened for Thursday 13 May 2021, at 9 am, at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u6	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a moving thought of closeness and condolence to Senator Luciano Modica's family, colleagues and friends. Man of deep culture and brilliant intelligence, Luciano Modica has been one of the most authoritative Italian academics in recent years. Sicilian of origins, he had moved to Tuscany to graduate in mathematics at the "Scuola normale superiore" in Pisa and undertake with passion the university career; a career of absolute prestige, national and international, that saw him obtain, at only thirty years, the chair of ordinary mathematics analysis at the University of Pisa, university of which only a few years later he would become young and esteemed rector, assuming in the same period the delicate role of president of the Conference of Italian Rectors; assignments that Luciano Modica knew to cover with tireless dedication and convinced innovative spirit. He was in particular one of the main supporters of the programmatic objectives of the 1998 Joint Declaration of Sorbonne for the architecture of a higher system of European education; a project in which - as he said on several occasions - Italian universities could have made a great contribution of didactic and scientific quality, as well as historical and cultural. His commitment to active politics had begun with the candidacy for the supplementary elections held in Tuscany on 27 October 2002 and the subsequent election to the Senate of the Republic among the ranks of the left-wing democrats. During his only parliamentary term as a Member of Parliament, Luciano Modica devoted himself with great commitment to the many issues related to the world of education and university. He was among the first to promote, with a bill signed by him, the idea of setting up an independent body for the evaluation of the university system and of research; a third guarantor that, without affecting the constitutional autonomy recognized by universities, could nevertheless help to stimulate a constant improvement of the educational offer and make investments and strategies for the development of national universities responsible: a project that Luciano Modica supported and helped to realize in the 15th legislature as Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of University and Research in the 2nd Prodi Government. Retreating from active politics in 2008, he returned to devote himself with inexhaustible energies and enthusiasm to study, teaching and many projects aimed at culture, university and life of the city of Pisa, to which he joined the affection of a lifetime. With Luciano Modica we lose a person of extraordinary human and cultural value, a great mathematician, an essay interpreter of the complex dynamics of the university world, a balanced politician, dialogue and concrete. In memory of Senator Luciano Modica, I therefore invite the Senate Assembly to observe a minute's silence. (The sitting was suspended at 3 [[observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u9	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, to the fine words you have dedicated in your commemoration of Luciano Modica, I would just like to add a few more. And I would leave with a verb, "accompany" because it is what Luciano Modica has done in these years, accompanying all of us who have a passion for school, university, research, high education, with that generosity that distinguished him, in all the choices we have tried to carry on in these years, in the two Education and Culture Commissions of the Chamber and Senate. Luciano continued to support the work also intrigued by the ways in which we approached to try to experience new goals and paths. And he has always done so with that gaze as a master eager to explain why certain questions concerning those worlds remained anchored and in what ways some passages, some regulatory interventions could be modified. Luciano Modica knew how to write the rules and knew how to do it very well, with great clarity and clarity and did not have a time problem. He explained, with the same passion with which he exercised his teaching role, the history of the Italian university system and what the objectives to achieve. He has never stopped and has always tried to innovate and find further routes. He was not afraid to indicate the criticalities of the different projects and, in front of a council, always highlighted the perspectives, but also the limits and worked to help all of us to overcome them. In recent years he has dedicated himself particularly to various trials. I am thinking of when he took up the challenge, launched by us by the Committee on Culture, Science and Education of the House of Deputies of the last parliamentary term, about the enabling degrees, which were new and which are about to see the goal today. He dedicated himself to that experimentation with great passion, starting from the small and from what could already be advanced. I am also thinking of his ability to transform into a norm the great listening path that later led to Decree-Law of 13 April 2017, n. 59, on the initial training of the teachers of the upper secondary school, but also the so-called transitional phase, then curated also by the minister Fedeli in close collaboration with Manuela Ghizzoni. For us who were in the House of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, it was common to see it together with Mrs Ghizzoni's work, in an attempt to find new perspectives. Luciano, who wrote well, has never escaped from helping us in the realization and publication of short texts concerning worlds dear to him, to revive themes so that they could become the subject of discussion. Two days ago, just with me, he had had the opportunity to tell, once again, the blockade of the AFAM issue, very dear to him. It leaves a void in all of us who have had the privilege of working together with him. We know that we have really been privileged and that we have had a great witness of seriousness and professionalism. We too join in greeting and closeness to the family and all its loved ones. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u12	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, as a Member of Parliament and as a Leader in the Committee on Public Education, Cultural Heritage, I too feel more than ever obliged to recall an extraordinary colleague who has just left us, Luciano Modica. It is an unexpected loss that leaves a deep void not only in the political-institutional world, but also in the academic world, as you rightly mentioned earlier in your speech. Promising student of the Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa, after graduating in mathematics, burned all the stages of the academic career and that, barely thirty years old, was already ordinary of mathematical analysis at the University of Pisa, where he held all the most prestigious positions. Brilliant scholar - as has already been said - has been able to transfer his knowledge outside the university environment, to make it available to all institutions, as senator - I too have a personal memory of when we were together, as my colleague Malpezzi rightly said - and then as Undersecretary to the Ministry of University and Research. We remember him for the enthusiasm that characterized him and that guided him in his scientific activity, centered on numbers and equations and that has led him to actually make a great political contribution for many years. Man of science, but also of institutions, has been able to combine two seemingly very different worlds: academic and political. Today, unfortunately, both academic and institutional realities have to regret the disappearance of an intellectual who has always shown his academic and political commitment in a serious and impeccable way and his contribution must remain very valuable for us. I, too, strive for affection and closeness to his family and friends, also on behalf of the Italia Viva-P.S.I. Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u15	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I met Luciano Modica in the early 1990s, when he was already president of the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities and that was an extraordinary season for Italian universities, in the sense that there was a great ferment. These were the years in which the law on university autonomy was being prepared and there was a huge wealth of ideas for reflection, creativity in the organizational models, in the division of curricula and above all in the revision of an academic life that could combine very well also the generational transition with a class of young teachers who came from important experiences of PhDs of research, conducted in collaboration with international structures. Luciano Modica, in his specific role as president of the CRUI, was the great director of that time: a director particularly attentive - for example - to the topic of evaluation, even before the Anvur took shape, starting from a strong awareness, that was that of the third-party structure that observed the university and, observing the university, evaluated it from the outside. This wealth was preceded by the awareness that the university should be able to evaluate itself. I remember all the great debate on evaluation indicators. Mathematical intelligence, which clearly distinguished his way of dealing with problems, always led him to look for the quantitative consideration through the selection of a qualitative indicator. The management that today seems to us on the agenda, the great theme of big data, for him was already a theme that tried to make pass in a long, slow and deep work of training of university teachers. The great awareness was that the university teacher, who normally came from a specific experience gained in his own scientific-disciplinary field, had to learn to be a teacher in a structure that was all the more important at the service of innovation and renewal of a country. It took shape with him what today is an acquired reality, the sense of the third mission of the university: a university that was not a hortus conclusus, locked up in itself, but was able to engage in dialogue, even with the business world. The great project called "More" was born, which meant university and enterprise, the collaboration between university and enterprise and the possibility of the famous open traineeships, so that students would get into the field and compete with things. Luciano Modica had this wealth, in which the awareness of the rigor of the method, which came precisely from the specificity of his competence as a mathematician, combined with a political and academic sensitivity at three hundred sixty degrees. It was years when all the truly innovative projects of the university were born from CRUI. They were not born in the Ministry, or in Parliament, but they were born from the awareness of the role of intellectual independence that explores his knowledge, makes him available and, making it available, somehow confronts everything around him. In those years I did not deal with politics; I was dealing with a young university that was being born at that time. Then when I found him in Parliament as a senator and then - as colleagues Malpezzi and Sbrollini recalled - as a protagonist compared to a work that was being built, he also certainly suffered from the weight of a bureaucratization of choices that in some way could perhaps do more loosely in his role as president of the CRUI, demonstrating that a quality policy can be made by playing different types of roles. Parliament is one, perhaps the most important and most qualifying point, but it is not the only one or the exclusive one. I therefore remember him with great pleasure for the truly extraordinary contribution offered to the university and its renewal. I also express closeness to the family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u18	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Senator Modica was born in Catania, as he was reminded; then he became a professor at the Normale di Pisa: a brilliant academic career as a mathematician, a pupil of De Giorgi. He taught at prestigious universities all over the world: Paris, New York University, Edinburgh, Bonn, Minneapolis. His political career began in 2002: elected during the supplementary elections and later, with Prodi, Undersecretary of the Ministry of University and Research. I didn't know Luciano Modica but, by an incredible coincidence, I am a friend, I esteem a person who knew him personally and esteemed him. By Luciano Modica today, beyond the strictly scientific merits that concern his subject matter, we remain the writings and reflections regarding the measurement of the performance of the Italian university and research. Let me read the foreword of a 2002 volume by Luciano Modica, in which he wrote: The autonomy of the university, recently completed with the reform of didactics, strongly poses the university system in the face of the challenge of quality. (...) The key elements to overcome this challenge are linked to the ability to keep constantly under control and to measure what is concretely achieved within each university; to transform this information into opportunities for learning, growth and continuous improvement; to make this same reading ability an element of transparency always available to those who have to choose, whether it be a student or a political decision-maker. This morning I had the opportunity to talk to the common friend who knew him and I asked him what Luciano's position was today in front of those goals that he, twenty years ago, had contributed to sketching. He replied: very bitter, because in recent years he had tried in vain to limit the bureaucratic drift of that evaluation system. He was very bitter, my friend tells me. I then asked him that he knew him if he thought that I could remember in this House his last years and his bitterness. He told me absolutely yes, he would have liked it, partly because he felt that, precisely because of his critical attitude towards the aforementioned drift, he had been removed from politics. I am described as an intellectually honest man, capable of looking forward because certainly that of the efficiency of the university and part of the public administration is an issue that interests all of us and is cross-cutting. He was an intellectually honest man - I repeat - capable of grasping the negative drifts that sometimes human systems assume, in spite of good intentions. Such a man will be missed by all because we need intellectually honest men. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2191, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Garruti and Alessandrini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Garruti.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u20	Mr President, Decree-Law No 30 of 13 March 2021 sets out urgent measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 and to support workers with children in distance teaching or quarantine. The measure, already approved at first reading by the House of Deputies, consists of six articles and an annex. In explaining the content of the decree-law, I will focus on the parts within the competence of the first Commission, i.e. paragraphs 1 to 7 of Article 1 and articles 1-a and 2-a, the latter included in the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. Article 1, paragraphs 1 to 7, contains some measures which have largely already taken effect. In fact, restrictive provisions have been envisaged for the period between 15 March and 6 April 2021, aimed at remodulating the containment and combating of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 on national territory, in view of the increased spread of the virus and its variants, in order to further limit the movement of people and avoid a worsening of the epidemic. In particular, the application to the Autonomous Regions and Provinces in the yellow zone of the measures provided for those located in the orange zone and, for the Easter holidays of 3, 4 and 5 April, the application throughout the national territory, with the exception of the white zone, of the measures planned for the red zone has been established. The penalties applicable to infringements of the requirements were therefore laid down. In addition, a daily communication by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to the Ministry of Health of the number of swabs carried out on its territory is planned and regulated. Article 1-a provides that movements for the conduct of talks with relatives or other persons, to whom prisoners, internees or accused persons are entitled, are also permitted by way of derogation from the rules adopted for the containment of the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19, where the same interviews are necessary to safeguard the physical and mental health of the same persons held or interned. Finally, Article 2-a stipulates that the provisions of the decree-law in question are also applicable in regions with special statutes and in the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano, compatible with their respective statutes and their implementing rules. The work of Joint Commissions 1a and 11a was completed without any change to the text adopted at first reading in the House of Deputies. A number of agendas have been adopted, and I believe that it is appropriate to mention the change in the agenda of amendment 1-a.1 concerning provisions for access for visitors to residential, socio-assistant and hospice facilities, which commits the Government to restoring, as soon as possible, access to the entire national territory of relatives and visitors, with the green certification of Covid-19, to long-term hospitality facilities, nursing homes (RSA), hospices, rehabilitation facilities and facilities for the elderly. [[Applause.]] PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. I call the rapporteur, Senator Alessandrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u21	Mr President, as regards the provisions of this Decree-Law, which relate more directly to the areas of work and social policies, it is first noted that paragraphs 7-a to 7-d of Article 1 concern the private hospital structure and medical research applied by Mater Olbia. In particular, paragraph 7-a excludes for the period 2021-2026 the beds accredited for this facility from the calculation relating to the relationship between the number of beds accredited to the Regional Health Service and the number of inhabitants. It is recalled that the general rule requires, in this respect, that the ratio does not exceed the value of 3,7 places-bed per thousand inhabitants, including 0,7 places-bed per thousand inhabitants for rehabilitation and long-term care. Paragraph 7- bis also provides that the Region of Sardinia will ensure, through the transmission of the necessary documentation to the Ministry of Health, the approval of a program of reorganization of the hospital network, which guarantees that, from 1 January 2027, the aforementioned parameters are respected before the beds accredited in the structure under consideration. Paragraph 7-b extends to the years 2024-2026 the transitional rule of derogation for the Region of Sardinia, with exclusive reference to the said hospital structure, to the current limit of the expenditure for the remuneration by the Regional Health Service of the health services rendered by private subjects accredited for the specialized outpatient care and hospital care. According to the rule so far in force, the derogation applies for the years 2019-2023. Paragraph 7-c allows the Region of Sardinia to recognize for a two-year period to the hospital in question the operating costs, net of the revenues obtained from the services, in the more of the full operation of the same structure. The coverage of the greater burdens for the public finance consequent to the eventual recognition of the costs, pursuant to this paragraph, is insured by the Region of Sardinia. Paragraph 7-d provides that the Ministry of Health and the Region of Sardinia ensure monitoring of the care activities carried out with the Mater Olbia structure, the quality of the clinical offer and the full integration of the hospital in question with the public health network, the recovery compared to the previous flows of health mobility outside the Region, the health flows, the flows of active health mobility achieved. The paragraph also provides that the Ministry of Health transmits annually to the Region of Sardinia, to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and to the Chambers a report on the monitoring so carried out. With regard to Article 2, it should first be noted that it provides for the possibility for employees, with regard to specific cases relating to their children, to resort to agile work or, in more limited cases and on conditions that the benefit cannot be carried out in an agile manner, to special leave with allowances. In particular, the cases relating to agile work and overtime leave concern, as an alternative between the two parents and with reference to a child under the age of sixteen, for agile work, and under the age of fourteen and living together for leave, periods relating to the same child, periods of suspension of educational activity in the presence of, infection with Covid-19 or quarantine arranged as a result of contact. The age of the child is excluded and the right to agile employment between the two parents is allowed if the above-mentioned cases concern children in conditions of established disability or specific learning disabilities or special educational needs, as well as in cases where children covered by these conditions frequent day care centres for which closure has been arranged. Leave shall be without prejudice to the age of the child and the requirement for coexistence, where the above-mentioned cases relate to children in conditions of serious disability. With regard to live-in children aged between 14 and 16 years, it is also foreseen, as of 30 June 2021, that one of the two parents should be entitled to leave without allowance if the above-mentioned cases relating to agile work for children under the age of 16. All the above rights are excluded if the other parent is not in employment or is suspended from work, with the exception of those agile right to work which, as mentioned above, precludes the age of the child. With regard, in particular, to leave with allowances, it is noted that the latter is recognised by the INPS, i.e. by the employer's public administration and that it amounts to 50% of the remuneration which would have been paid with the recognition for social security purposes of the figurative contribution for the entire salary. The basis for calculating the allowance shall be determined in accordance with the same criteria as for the basis for calculating the allowance for parental leave. As a result, reference is made to the average daily total remuneration of the four-week or monthly pay period which expired and immediately preceding that during which the leave began. The amount of this calculation basis does not include the daily payment relating to the Christmas bonus or the thirteenth month of each month and to the other premiums, monthly payments or ancillary treatments which may be granted to the worker. Article 2 also provides for the possibility, for self-employed persons, of staff in the security, defence and public assistance sector and employees in the health sector, of taking advantage, by 30 June 2021, and as an alternative to agile work and leave with or without benefits, of the payment of a bonus for the purchase of babysitting services or supplementary childcare services for a child living under the age of fourteen, for periods of suspension of educational or educational activity in the presence, of infection with Covid-19 or quarantine arranged as a result of contact. The bonus is recognized to the maximum extent of 100 euros per week. The benefits of the allowance leave and the above-mentioned bonus are recognised by the INPS in compliance with a total limit of € 299,3 million for 2021. The possibility of converting parental leave, if any, during the period from 1 January to 13 March 2021 into leave with such allowances shall be governed by paragraph 4. This Article 2 contains two further provisions on agile work. With a general rule of thumb, relating to the so-called worker's disconnect, the right to disconnect from technological instruments and computer platforms is established, in compliance with any agreements signed by the parties and without prejudice to any agreed availability periods. The exercise of the right may not affect the employment relationship or remuneration treatment. The agile labour discipline established by national collective agreements, the extension to civil servants and the introduction of the case of children with special educational needs in the current framework, which, until 30 June 2021, confers the right to agile work for private employees who have at least one child in serious disability, remain firm for the public employment. The right shall be subject, without prejudice to the new more specific rule referred to in paragraph 1-a of this Article 2. It is also noted that paragraph 9 of this Article 2 provides for a specific authorisation of expenditure, amounting to EUR 10.2 million for 2021, in order to ensure the replacement of staff of school institutions benefiting from the benefits referred to in this Article 2. Article 3 sets out the rules for the financial coverage of the charges arising from this Decree-Law. They are dealt with through the use of a share of the use of debt authorised by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate on 20 January 2021 and the use of the higher revenue resulting from the said increase in expenditure for the staff of the school institutions, as well as by the reduction for 2021 of two provisions of the Special Fund of the current part relating to the financial charges deriving from the legislative measures of the current part, which is expected to be approved in the three-year reference period. This reduction concerns, to the extent of 12.5 million euros, the provision relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and, to the extent of 4 million, the provision relating to the Ministry of Health. The total of the financial charges arising from this Decree-Law, consisting of those laid down in Article 2 and the increase, as a result of the above-mentioned recourse to debt, of the amount of interest payable on public debt securities, is reported for the individual years in the line of paragraph 2. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u22	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Drago is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating here today concerns a solution for everyday life, in a context in which, above all, young people and young people under the age of 14 or 16 are in a quarantine situation (as well as other similar situations). The question is how to reconcile the presence of parents during the quarantine period within the domestic walls with working needs. The solutions that are proposed are parental leave or babysitting bonus: we will scan them to identify the critical issues, despite the installation and the intention are unquestionably positive. The decree-law in question states that the smart working of one of the two parents is incompatible with the request for leave of the other. With this system we basically say that teleworking can be considered as a way of reconciling private life and professional commitments: this - we know very well - is a fake, because teleworking, smart working, is a work to all intents and purposes. Let's go into the concrete and imagine a family context in which an eight-year-old is quarantined by the school as one of the comrades has been declared positive to Covid; in this case, you understand well that there will be the need to resort to DAD. But how will parents manage the presence at home of a primary school child and a whole series of dynamics, such as the inclusion of digital identity in the system used to date by the Ministry of Education and the alternation of rest and recovery times? Without considering - but this is a digression - that the number of DAD hours proposed for primary children does not take into account the age group at all. I must say that with these measures Piaget would turn into the grave. It is therefore claimed that smart working is a solution that in fact becomes almost secondary in the work efficiency and in the management of the family. But we must also take into account one particular: smart working, teleworking, will probably have a continuum even after the end of this pandemic period. Working from home means working and is incompatible with care and care for children under fourteen in DAD. For this clear reason, it must also be possible to take advantage of the babysitter bonus even in case of smart working. Another critical element is the following: with children aged fourteen to sixteen years you can use smart working, but, if in the previous case the remuneration is at 50%, in this will not be paid any compensation and no recognition of the figurative contribution; it is highly likely that these measures will be maintained also at the end of the pandemic period. What I would like to point out is that in Article 1, paragraph 6, of the measure under discussion refers to a whole range of categories of workers (employed in the security, defence and public aid sectors); however, other categories of workers are excluded. I think of teachers who, despite working in DAD, must even go to the reference institutions; we think of those who are out of office and cannot follow their children either in the case of recourse to distance teaching for necessity, or in the case of those who carry out their activities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u24	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have no objection to the measures which are planned and which we are debating today and will approve in this House. However, I would like to stress one aspect and I would like to address the Government in a particular way: these measures must be defined and concluded from a temporal point of view. I say this because, if we get used to the idea, the DAD that is done today, as it has been conceived, that is, in the absence of any experience in teaching, is not founded and cannot boast, except in very particular cases, support in innovative forms of teaching that can really educate the girls and boys of our schools to know. Beyond the goodness of the measures, which go in the direction of protecting the teaching and the family of those who are subject to it, we cannot forever imagine such a condition. What is needed, apart from a measure such as that we are discussing this morning, is the putting in order of a system which today consists (in the past we have seen how many difficulties it has had to grow and to go in order) mainly of three factors. The first is vaccination extended to the whole school world. The second is the place where the outbreaks are ignited, and repeatedly, which is the whole transport sector. Of course, we must prepare ourselves, yes, for the end of this school year, but in particular - and I quote the third case, i.e. the stabilisation of at least some of the precarious teachers - in order to prevent the 2021-2022 school year from beginning with the shortcomings and deficiencies that have occurred in the 2020-2021 school year. I stress this point because the school in Italy and in other parts of the world has never fully responded to the criterion of equality of education; those who come from a better family are able to provide a better knowledge service to their daughters and children. With DAD this scissors tends to widen. If the DAD and therefore the lack of teaching in presence persist, after a part of the school year 2019-2020 and after a large part of 2020-2021, stretching with its shadow also on the school year 2021-2022, we risk to deliver part of a decisive generation to an unconstitutional inequality and a further one between North and South compared to the existing one, which can ignite a further fracture in the extraordinary history of this country. We must therefore get used to managing a long transition not only with measures to support families, but also by putting our hands in an organic and structural way on the fronts of vaccination, stabilisation of precarious people and transport. I conclude by recalling a measure that we are discussing in these hours: the student's curriculum, a kind of identity card of each of our children or grandchildren, which risks being the photograph of inequalities. My son, Madam President, for his father's income, is in a position to enjoy a number of advantages that that of my dearest friend, because of his father's unemployment condition, cannot be enjoyed at all; what we cannot do is to set a standard inequality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u27	Mr President, fellow senators and fellow senators, representatives of the government, the pandemic situation of extraordinary gravity has led us to live and to confront ourselves with new and unimaginable scenarios until a few months ago. One of these, certainly among the most complex to deal with, is the one related to distance learning (DAD), not only because of the consequences that this tool has on students, but also on the world of work and on families. I think we need a distinction: during the first pandemic wave of spring 2020 with total lockdown, the schools were not well equipped and were not ready to offer a distance teaching. At the same time, much of the work was firm and the families were able to hold a scenario, however difficult and worrying, compatible with everyday life. However, in recent months, the picture has changed profoundly and, if, on the one hand, we have still witnessed problems of organization in the school system, on the other, we have seen how, rightly, the working world has been well organised, offering possibilities of work in remote ways for certain categories of workers, while others have had to take up their work safely from the workplace. It is well known that this situation has led to many problems for several Italian families, who were unable to assist their children at home. The measures taken by the Government, which allowed this to happen with some legislative instruments, have hit a complex situation. Smart working for those who have children under 16 years of age, paid leave and bonuses to support their children's activities are good. Protecting workers and workers is a priority, together with the right of minors to be accompanied at this stage of recovery which, in some rare cases, still provides for distance learning. However, we cannot fail to focus, ladies and gentlemen, on certain limitations arising from this instrument, not so much on the educational effects, which we must face today, not in this House, but on those related to the world of work. Many categories have been penalised and not sufficiently supported; I am referring in particular to the world of self-employed people who today, as never before, pay heavily for this difficult economic situation. In fact, there are many categories that have complained of difficulties in managing their work and family activities, since, as you know, it is not always possible to change their tasks into tasks compatible with work in remote mode. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our task is to think about them and to find appropriate tools that can compensate these categories for the difficulties they have had to face in recent months. Finally, it will be up to policy to start focusing seriously on how to reconcile distance learning, remote work and family needs. We are all certain that with the vaccination plan we will encounter certain reopenings for the school world. Nevertheless, we cannot get unprepared to address such a sensitive issue as this, which has consequences not only from a work point of view, but also from a social and economic point of view. These are important challenges, which, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot escape at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u28	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u29	Mr President, the conversion of the decree-law to our examination closes a very heartfelt and heavy emergency for citizens. We know that it contains the further restrictive measures that covered the phase from 15 March to 6 April and the closures that lasted until Easter, when all Italy was closed within a large red zone. Today it seems, sincerely, that those decisions, which at that time appeared restrictive and penalising, are bearing the desired results, with results in terms of infection and decompression of health structures that I would call important, important and significant. Central, in the decree, was the need to govern that phase at the end of March, thus deciding further sacrifices in a passage still complicated for the spread of the epidemic, but at the same time it introduced compensation tools for families, as was widely reminded also by those who preceded me: overtime leave with allowances; the possibility of agile work within families in a difficult condition, with minor children who could not go to school and therefore had to follow the lessons from home; the possibility for the self-employed to take advantage of bonuses for babysitting services. There was therefore a social focus on the difficulties of families. Among other things, we will also have to discuss these tools in the future, because it is clear that smart working will not only be remembered as a model of organization of work at this stage, but probably in the future companies, but also public bodies, will be able to consider using it again. This will lead to a redefinition of the balance between the time of private life and that of work, and this will necessarily involve the presence of welfare tools suitable for this type of reorganization of the world of work. It is therefore a decree that looks ahead, which sets a starting point for a new idea of work and a new idea of family welfare. It must be said, however, that today we see this decree with different eyes, because there is no doubt that those restrictions have produced results, so much so that today we can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel, with a rate of contagion that has dropped below 4% (although it is true that it must be evaluated according to the amount of swabs made, but it is a figure that attests to the levels of October, so something will mean as well). At the same time, thanks to the Dragons Government - things have to be seen and said for what they are - we have had a real reversal of trend, not because the rate of contagion depends on the Dragons Government, but because there is a whole series of measures put in the field that denote a real change of pace. The vaccination campaign can finally be defined as such. It took a few weeks to break in, but Commissioner Figlio, encouraged and pushed by the Government, and Civil Protection, led by Curcio, marked a real change of pace. Last week, 2.77 million vaccines were inoculated, so that 500,000 vaccinations a day have been reached, which will now be a stable figure, and we are talking about more ambitious targets. It is clear that all this came because there was not a manna from heaven, but a real reversal of the trend in the way we manage the public thing. We claim the Dragons Government and the fact that we have asked the country for a change of pace in the past months. Today, our demand takes on an even more important character, because there is someone who almost wants to suggest that the change of government was the result of a low blow and a conspiracy. Some people even think this change of government was made in a truck. It is necessary to have the intellectual honesty to admit that there was a need to change step in order to give answers to the country and not to politics, nor to the need of some political leaders or of a change of armchair. There was a need to give concrete signals of change that the country absolutely wanted to see and that today, with the results achieved, are before everyone's eyes from the point of view of both the health protection of the population and the revival of the country's economy. Even the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is not the one prepared by the Count Government, but it has been changed almost entirely and this indicates that something was wrong at that stage, even if someone wanted to paint things differently. In our view, we need to reaffirm the fact that, when things are not going, we must not throw the ball on the stands, but we must face the problems and try to solve them in the best possible way. In my opinion, it is unacceptable (I mean, even if the subject may not be relevant to the measure under consideration) that there is always a tendency to fish in the turbid and try to cloud what should be fed with light, only for reasons of political convenience and to denigrate a political opponent. I believe that at this political stage the television system should serve as an accompaniment to the crisis in the country and create social cohesion and not divide further. What has happened in the past days, namely a real media attack on a political leader, is something serious, which should become the subject of political discussion in Parliament (it should be discussed in the same way as today's Covid). In fact, there is a need to rewrite a common conscience in the country, when it comes to such important issues, and not to use the tools of communication to delegitimize and denigrate someone. [[Applause]] I believe that this cannot be the future of the country, which must be governed, even with different political contrasts and views, but never losing sight of the objective of allowing everyone to express themselves, have a common respectability and not denigrate political opponents with fake news and inventions. We must try to build together measures that give the country breath, since we will have to re-launch the economy with determination, after having reduced the risks to the population deriving from the Covid. In conclusion, we strongly support this measure, but we ask the country and the policy to take responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u31	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will devote the few minutes available to the aspects of the measure concerning measures to support workers with minor children in distance learning and quarantine. As far as the health aspects are concerned, there are colleagues far more authoritative than I am on the subject and I also think it is quite unnecessary to say something about what it was, since we are discussing a decree-law that has been called "Pasqua" and that, as Mr De Carlo says, we are now at Pentecost. As for the aspect of worker protection, we believe that the government has missed an opportunity, proving itself in perfect continuity with its previous... [[Comments.]] The government is used to not listening; it did not listen before and it does not listen now.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u32	I beg colleagues to let the government stand free.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u33	[[Applause]] However, it is a recommendation that I always make, mostly unheard of. IANNONE (FdI). The important thing is that the Italians listen to us. Shall I continue? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's set the government stand free. Senator Iannone, you can calmly resume the surgery. IANNONE (FdI). The government loses the opportunity to give a concrete response to millions of Italians, who have basically found themselves in the condition of having to choose whether to sacrifice their work or their family. In fact, it is obvious that the system identified for parental leave and for the babysitter bonus is not parametrated on the real needs of the families; indeed, it puts in great difficulty especially the weakest classes, with lower salaries and therefore also with less ability to face the expenses to continue to follow their own children. This is for us who are a social and popular right - as we have shown with the amendments that we have tabled, both in the House and here in the Senate - it is a straightforward fact, because the aid is insufficient for everyone, but for some the measures are even more discriminatory. I want to talk in particular about a sector that very often - indeed, almost always, I would say - is neglected, that of the ATA staff: these are civil servants, who certainly do not have rich salaries, but also people who like other Italians, have guaranteed, the continuation of certain activities, in their case of the school, and they are not even recognized the possibility of accessing the babysitter bonus. For intellectual honesty I would like to thank the Government for the acceptance of our agenda in the House (and I hope here too in the Senate), but I wish it were not - as unfortunately often happens - an empty commitment that will not be confirmed in the next decree support, with the new deviation of the budget. The ATA staff deserves attention, as has been pointed out to us by so many subjects of this world and by the Feder.ATA union, which I thank for the confrontation he had with our political side and which we have interpreted, because no Italian must be left behind. Prove it concretely: we will be ready to give you credit, as we always are to give contributions in the interest not of the Government, but of the nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u34	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us, which has already been passed in Article 1, which refers to a period of time from mid-March to the beginning of April, provides for support measures for workers with minor children in distance teaching or quarantine. It gives us the opportunity to focus our attention on a central theme in the life of our country and citizens: the school. The introduction of distance learning and the alternating interruption of school attendance in schools of every order and grade have been phenomena of absolute novelty, of which social costs will have to be assessed over time. It is undeniable that distance learning cannot be equated with that in the presence, from every point of view. The lucky kids who have been able to follow the online lessons since March 2020, without problems of connection or other inconveniences, have still paid the price of a forced, abnormal and unnatural loneliness. The school, as we all know, has paid one of the highest costs of the pandemic, victim of the disorganization of the local transport system in our country, whose inefficiency - it is not a mystery - has been an obstacle that has prevented a reopening in safety. Even with the additional resources provided by the State to the local authorities, structural and atavistic problems have not been resolved in a short time. The pandemic context, therefore, unpredictably influencing the psychological balance of many students, has caused a widespread increase in anxiety, fears and fears. The lack of interaction with the rest of the class and the sense of loneliness caused by the obligatory rigour of distance teaching are elements with which we will have to deal in the near future. In the decree-law supports part of the resources allocated with the increase of the fund for the operation of the educational institutions will be directed to specific professional services for the support and the pedagogical and psychological assistance. A wise use of resources is indispensable, first of all in the most peripheral, backward and marginalized socio-economic environments, where families, perhaps already burdened by the heavy economic repercussions, cannot afford additional expenses for their children. In this extremely delicate pandemic context for the entire school system, the most fragile students and students, already suffering from disability, have suffered even more. On this point I would like to make a particular thought. In the decree-law we are discussing, measures have been included in favour of the use of agile work for parents in cases of suspension of the educational and educational activities of children. Certainly, especially in the territories of our country that have suffered the most from the closure of school complexes, this rule, in force since the middle of March, can prove useful for employees. This benefit also extends to both parents who have children with disabilities established under Law 104, 1992 with specific learning disorders or with special educational needs, therefore it represents a certain positive innovation in the text of the decree-law. However, broadening for a moment our benchmarks on the emergency situation experienced by students and students with disabilities, unfortunately, will soon return to the comb unsolved nodes for a long time. The lack of teachers specializing in teaching roles represents a vulnus which should have been dealt with for some time in a more incisive way, as well as the achievement of the agreement at a unified conference that should have taken place over a year ago, as provided for in the so-called inclusion decree on the configuration of assistance to autonomy and communication. In conclusion, these are the figures - the support teacher and the assistant to autonomy and communication - that take care of students with disabilities every day, even during the pandemic and with all the additional difficulties of the case. If, as Mr Bianchi said, distance learning is not to be seen as a pro-temporaneous fallback - which would justify the emerging use of agile work - but as a path of integration and enrichment to build a new school, then let the Minister explain to us what the way to build this new school is. The new school we want for our children can no longer afford to entrust the education and education of boys and girls with disabilities to personnel not in possession of specialization. This argument, unfortunately, does not seem to be on the agenda of this government in office, and if therefore, at least for the time being, the objective of ending the school year in presence, avoiding the use of distance teaching, seems to be centered, there is still no certainty about the near future and how to deal with all the critical issues widened by the pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u36	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u37	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out three points on this decree-law that we are about to vote on in a few minutes. The first, as has already been pointed out by a number of colleagues, is that we are about to vote on something that has already passed. From this point of view, the timing between the enactment of the decree-law and its conversion on the part of Parliament is frankly anachronistic, so much so that we will vote for something that has already passed and passed. This is therefore an indication that we would like to pass on to the new Government, precisely so that we do not repeat a practice that characterized the previous Government, so that the pursuit of the decree-laws meant that, when they came to the attention of the Assembly, for the approval - as it were - of Parliament, their effects had already completely passed away. This is a question of method, but also of respect for Parliament. The second point, on which I intend to draw attention here, concerns the very heart of the decree-law to our examination, which I want to summarize in this way: how to meet the needs of families, through the typical track on which their lives are articulated, that is, the work of parents and the care of children, taking into account their characteristic needs, also with respect to the formidable initiatives for the development of children's skills and competences, which are represented for example by the school. In this scissors, which, on the one hand, sees smart working and, on the other, distance learning, and which at the same time seeks to integrate the rights and responsibilities of one and the other, it seems to us that it is time that they are not regulated from time to time, depending on the circumstances that arise, but that we come to draw guidelines that, at the time of the emergency, when the problem arises, make it quite clear, in advance, what families can and must do to be carefully and intelligently close to the needs of their children and, at the same time, what parents or at least people can and must do with respect to their work, in order to be able to maintain together their professional and community service responsibility and the circumstances and concrete ways in which this can be achieved. I frankly regret having to point out from time to time, for example, what happens to parents of children who have the certification under Law No 104 of 1992 or the famous special educational needs (BES), that is, to have to stress every time the parameter of the discomfort, due to a physical handicap or a disease, perhaps rare, of children, that clearly affects the ways in which the family and the parents can and must organize their professional work and that of care, through what we normally call the work life balance, that is, the balance between rights and duties and that of responsibilities. It seems to me that now, after a year and a half, we should have all acquired - on this I also appeal to the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family - an awareness of the need to rely on stable guidelines, under these circumstances and under these conditions. Whatever the emergency that triggers them, parents need to know that they can count on these kinds of attention measures and children need to know that they are safe from these measures. We all know, for example, that in the face of the great theme of distance learning and in the debate built around it, a different interpretation has been given to the acronym DAD, that is, distance learning. In fact, someone wanted to interpret him as a "doctor at home," passing from an interpretation that emphasizes the cultural and social distance, dictated by the physical distance between the student and the classroom, to a total reversal of the proposals, as if he were really a teacher at home. In order to have the teacher at home, however, and therefore to operate this reversal in interpretation, clearly we should have a greater number of teachers, so that we can take charge of the special educational needs, that is the famous BES. In these long months in which I participated not only in the public debate, with our society, but also in Parliament, especially in several committees - as in the particularly interesting sessions chaired by Mr Nencini, the 12th and 7th Commissions - I have never seen a very simple, linear and clear proposal emerge. Why can't our teaching staff accept this need from the teacher at home? This does not mean physically moving, but using the platform, resources and modes available with a diagnosis of the specific learning needs of that boy, who very often are not only didactic, but also educational. In fact, in the decree-law whose conversion we are preparing to approve the term "educational" has always been flanked by "educational." It is as if an enlargement of needs and even a deepening of responsibilities on the part of those who govern such processes to be close to these people have been discovered. I believe that on all this we need to make a system and structure reflection that puts in the hands of the school, the families and the companies something more than a regulation that every three weeks, as had accustomed us to the famous previous DPCM, tambur swing changes the cards in order. The same can be said for what is said in the decree-law with reference to the theme of babysitting and, therefore, also of reimbursement, of 100 euros per week or of the facilities also for the children of health care (doctors and nurses), who certainly cannot do their work at a distance (in fact there is no smart working of the doctor or hospital nurse). We need to rethink all this and, therefore, I present it and offer it to reflection. I urge everyone to do this, but in particular the Minister for Health and, in liaison, the Minister for Education and the Minister for Labour. The third point that I would like to highlight in this decree-law is a very particular aspect, which has been included in the additional paragraphs in Article 1. I am referring to a large hospital born in Sardinia which goes under the name of Mater Olbia. It is interesting that this great newly born hospital has in its diction the word mater to support the relationship of care that evidently can and must maintain towards patients. It also seems to me to be a tribute to motherhood and I think we can appreciate this explicit reference and we can grasp it. The interesting thing about paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 added to Article 1 - and, therefore, in the very beginning of the decree - is the form of collaboration with the so-called private agreement. Every now and then in this House and in the social context there is a sort of prejudice against everything that is not entirely, completely and completely state-owned, as if what comes from the private should be looked at with mistrust. Just to mention the great realities present in the city of Rome, I think of the Child Jesus, the Gemini, the Bio-Medical Campus and many other structures that represent the private partner. Mr President, it is important that, in view of the offer of a service of excellence, the possibility of revisiting certain rules has been included, having in mind and central the need for patients. Once again, in a private agreement what is dominant is not the element of the private, but the response to the needs of patients. The one made in Sardinia seems to me an interesting attempt. We all hope that it is a truly positive experience, that it helps the island to make a qualitative leap even in the health care it offers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u38	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u39	Mr President, let us talk about work and workers. That is why I would like to start my speech by sending a virtual embrace, my own, our own as a League Group, but I believe that of all of us, to Mrs. Emma Marrazzo, mother of Luana D'Orazio, the girl who lost her life in Prato. [[Applause]] Mrs Emma has called for tragedies such as the one that happened last Monday not to be repeated. I was also struck by this woman's concern about the owner of the company where her daughter lost her life. In this House, which represents the Italian people and the workers, I strongly repeat what was expressed yesterday in the Commission together with Senator Alessandro Ruotolo, I would like to say this, which raised the problem, so that action can be taken. I apologize for the emotion, but the death of a 22-year-old mother, with a five-year-old child, cannot leave us indifferent, as well as the tragedy of all workers who lose their lives, regardless of age. That is why I ask that the Committee of Inquiry into Health and Safety at Work be set up as soon as possible, in favour of whose institution this House ruled in 2019 and which is still standing still. We owe it to all workers and, above all, to this girl, to her son and to her mother, who showed an uncommon courage, sending a clear appeal to all of us. You can't die in 2021 at the workplace. Those who go to work must go home, hug their family, their loved ones and not be weeping. I would therefore also ask the Presidency to ensure that the Commission is set up, regardless of the interests of the Presidency or Vice-President of the parties. This is a very important Commission: we must give a signal to Italian workers. Coming to the decree before us, as has been said, it has passed: we are also late in approving it, as has happened all too often in this House. I say this with a veil of criticism, because we must be quick to defend our fellow citizens, we must be quick to remedy some of the needs. It is a decree containing some measures for a wide use of work in agile mode for those who have children of school age, a prediction that we may have underestimated, because we also need socialization, and not only work understood as gain: there is not only the economic aspect, but also the social aspect, so much so that we have approved the bonus for babysitting services aimed at working parents who cannot carry out their work in agile mode and that therefore we have protected. We could have gone over 100 euros a week, but unfortunately this is the situation and the pandemic and the problems we are experiencing have imposed this small amount on us. However, it is necessary to protect workers, mothers and dads, so that they live their family relationship with their children with serenity, because it is important: we cannot think only of the economic aspect, because there is also this profile. I repeat, because it is important: there is also the social level, socialization among people, living together, because work is also freedom of communication, not only a sterile message, an e-mail, a job indication, but we go further: work is freedom. For this reason, in my opinion, we must also review the rules of smart working, because we have made a very important change in relation to personal freedoms in relation to work in agile mode, providing for disconnecting from technological tools. This is important - I repeat - for the freedom to work safely, but also to ensure that people have free time to live their relationships, otherwise we create a sterile and heterogeneous society, losing those values that have so far made social cohesion fundamental, that is, the family understood as a productive entity, both from the economic point of view, but also from the cultural and cohesion point of view of a nation. For this reason, by opening a parenthesis, we will not give up on the concept of family, because national cohesion is based on the natural family. I don't want to open up controversy. You have to find solutions for agile work and smart working. The minimum threshold of 50% for public administrations has been exceeded; this new formula has been approved by the Council of Ministers. I hope as soon as possible to return to normal, with people who have the opportunity to return to the workplace, because it must also be said that there are side effects. With simple words, I bring a personal example, that of the operational structure of the airport, where around the employees and offices live and work a lot of people: I talk about the cleaning cooperatives, of which very often you forget. I am referring to forgotten workers, such as cleaning workers who, with their offices closed, are in difficulty, suffering, or the operators of bars and business canteens. They are all workers who have the same rights as those who have the opportunity to work in agile ways; they are people who must be protected, so we must also reason with them, because they are also workers of the A series. In fact, precisely to protect workers, we must also review Law 22 May 2017, n. 81, which gives guidelines for smart working and agile work, but does not enter into the substance. That is why, in my opinion, we have to write - and I dare say this - the status of digital workers, of the future. With the Workers' Statute, we are still in the 1970s, so I think it should be updated. Similarly, the unique text for safety at work, which has been stationary for ten years, is static, and we must update it. So the future task of this Parliament and of what will come in 2023 is to rewrite the rules of work, but also the protection of workers and companies, because to date, agile work is left to the interpretation and discretion of both the employer and the employee, often also on working time. We must write certain rules, because our fellow citizens cannot be left to chance, as happened. This pandemic has given us a very important signal, in some respects our nation is behind in economic and industrial development, but also with regard to the rules of the world of work. We have to activate. We owe it to all citizens who trust democratic institutions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u40	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Colleagues, to join in the pain of Luana D'Orazio's family, a young worker who was tragically lost while working, and to underline Parliament's commitment today and always for the protection of safety and the dignity of work, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u43	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you for the memory you have made and, at the same time, I would ask you to activate, for the competences that the Presidency has, the measure for the constitution of the Commission on safety at work, already incardinated for more than a year. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u44	Thank you, Senator. I know that you have also received a public request to this effect, which is certainly shared by the whole of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are debating a decree-law that has been passed in part, but I think it is important to stress, even after that, the importance of having taken measures which seem to have been more restrictive than necessary; specifically, I am referring to the application of measures of the so-called orange zone also in the regions which should have been in the yellow zone and, on Easter holidays, to the application of red zone measures throughout the national territory. The cases of contagion are also decreasing thanks to these restrictions, which have therefore allowed us to proceed to the gradual reopenings from 26 April. From February of last year to today we have learned a lot about this virus, but I think the most important thing to keep in mind is that we cannot lower our guard until we have secured at least the most fragile and most at risk of the population. The decline of the daily deaths tells us that we are going in the right direction, but there are still too many (yesterday there were 305), so we continue to respect the rules: we wear the masks, we keep the distance and we frequently hygienize the hands. The vaccinations are proceeding quickly and, thanks to the finally regular deliveries, we have reached the quota of 500,000 doses a day, which will soon allow us to proceed to the vaccination of all those who want to do so. In addition, the EMA is already examining Pfizer's request to authorise the administration of adolescents between 12 and 16 years of age, so by autumn we can also protect our children with a view to their return to school. In short, we are going in the right direction, but we must do so carefully and prudently, because our first imperative must always be the protection of health. [[Applause]] In this measure there are also other health rules: there are, for example, measures to ensure the operability of the new hospital and medical research center applied Mater Olbia in Sardinia. It is not a mystery what we think of the indiscriminate financing to private health but, when the structure exists and was foreseen by the Region a support to facilitate its start-up and full operation, it would be irresponsible not to allow it. The citizens of the wonderful Sardinia have the right - as indeed everywhere - to be able to take better care of themselves in their region, without travel of hope to the continent. This should allow public health, but we know well - we have said so many times in this House - how this has been plundered in the past years. We have finally reversed the financing route of the National Health System, but it will take time to see its effects. In the meantime we all hope that the great support to this structure can quickly fill this deficiency and offer the Sardinian citizens the performance of excellence they deserve on their territory, because what is missing is precisely the high-level performance and certainly not a private agreement center that offers the performances of medium and low level that are already able to guarantee the existing public structures. Finally, in the measure there are paid parental permits for workers in all cases where children under 14 cannot go to school or attend educational services. There was also a babysitter bonus for self-employed workers, and my fellow Members have extended this possibility - and I would say this is due - to workers in the health sector and in the public security and defence sector, which were unfortunately initially excluded. For over a year now, we've been saying that professionals... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u47	Colleagues, let's finish the surgery and listen to him.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u48	Please, Senator Pirro. PIRRO (M5S). Thank you, President. For a year now we have been saying that professionals and healthcare professionals are generally the heroes of this emergency; and then we must not and cannot forget them just when we approve measures to support workers. We cannot forget who, from the first day, paid a very high price to assist and treat us. Our gratitude goes to all of them and I would add that they can be sure that they will continue to be the focus of our attention and our legislative action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u49	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u50	I call the rapporteur, Senator Alessandrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u51	Madam President, I would like to say that all of us in this last year have dealt with many decree-laws. This government in particular felt a pressing need to improve the living conditions of all citizens, who are now exhausted economically and psychologically by this pandemic. When a decree-law arrives, every Member of Parliament, often pressed by the obvious needs of the many categories that are in manifest difficulty, would like to table amendments, sometimes even not in line with the objectives of the measures, to respond to the cries of pain that come to us from the various parts of the country. The Commission and I, as rapporteur, have accepted and agreed to the need, as indicated by the Government, for rapid approval of the decree-law we are considering today, to which we have given our full attention. If the League supports this Government, it is for the love of Italy and Italians and for the respect of that popular vote that in the past electoral rounds has given it consent and confidence. In the name of that confidence that the people have given us, we are here to do the interests of Italians and the interests of Italy, at a time when our nation cannot afford to waste more time, because the time to do something concrete has been lost among the various DPCMs; because of these delays now we must run. We would like and should certainly do more, much more. I am thinking of all the categories that need concrete aid; I too could have remembered all the categories and tabled dozens of amendments, but we are converting a decree-law and I doubt that the seat to do so is the bill of conversion, even if we are often accustomed to integrating everything into it. However, we must abide by the obligation of homogeneity of the decree-law and the bill of conversion. It is that obligation that the Constitutional Court reminded us, in its judgment n. 22 of 2012, considering the decree-law tout illegitimate if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity, a constraint that the Court implicitly considers provided for by Article 77 of the Constitution. Surely we will fight so that all the categories and all the Italian families can start to see a future again. We will fight so that our children can attend our schools in the future, so that they can do so in dignified and worthy environments of this name. We will fight for all the workers, for our old people, for the fragile. We will fight for no one to lag behind and we will do so with concrete and specific proposals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u52	The rapporteur Garruti and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established in the course of the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 2-a.1 and 2-a, due to the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law, cannot be proposed. 0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u55	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, it seems to me that I understand that Amendment 2-a.1 has been declared inadmissible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). But it had already been turned into an agenda in the Commission, with modification, and accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u56	In fact, the agenda is there. Obviously the amendment has not been withdrawn. Anyway, we'll do the proper checks. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u57	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.1 to 1.9 and 1.0.1. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1-a.0.1. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda from G1.1 to G1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u58	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u61	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to address the rapporteur's call for the withdrawal of amendment 1-a.0.1. This is an amendment that we have tabled to highlight the great theme of the reopening of the Health Care Residences (RSA), of the nursing homes. We are calling for everything possible to be done to bring about this reopening very quickly, which is why we thought that with Amendment 1-a.0.1 there was a chance of getting there in a few days. We have taken note of the difficulties that a third reading of the measure could entail. We have also taken note of the commitment made by the Government in the Commission to intervene quickly with one of the next measures, without waiting for the conversions of the next decrees that would lead to reopenings in June. This commitment satisfies us and we therefore withdraw amendment 1-a.0.1 and turn it into an agenda, calling for an opinion to be given on it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u62	Senator Augussori, I haven't actually called you yet for the illustration of the amendment, but that's fine, we've moved on with the work. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u65	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak so that it remains with the acts that Brothers of Italy do not just protest, as some have said today. [[Applause]] , but makes concrete proposals immediately applicable. With regard to Amendment 1.6, we propose that curfew be moved to at least 24 hours for the yellow and white areas. As we all know, curfew is a measure of dubious constitutional legitimacy, indeed it is absolutely unconstitutional and violates the precise dictation of our Constitution, but above all it is no longer justified in the light of the change - luckily - epidemiological situation and especially the fact that today, in May, the sun sets at 8.30 p.m., there is light until 9.30 p.m. and it makes no sense to force people in the house, where if anything the contagion is amplified, while outdoors, as we all know, the contagion represents only 0.1 percent of the total. [[Applause]] Since you have rejected our previous amendments, which called for the safe reopening of swimming pools, restaurants, bars and other exercises, we ask the House to at least assume the responsibility not to refer it back to who knows when this necessary measure, but to adopt it today and immediately. It is a proposal of common sense, we do not even ask, as is right, to abolish curfew completely, we ask only to extend it to 24 hours. I say to my fellow senators that those who have the courage to take on this responsibility today can do so by voting in favour of our amendment, which is an amendment of common sense and purpose. It is too easy to accuse us of protesting only and then ignoring our concrete proposals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u68	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like you to remain in the record of what I will say about Amendment 1.6, which Senator Balboni has just explained. This is a sensitive and important subject, which has seen us already engaged in requests to the Government to change the current situation. Our vote will be an abstention only because there is an agenda G1.1, approved in the Commission, at the first signature of Senator Augussori and which we have all signed, which makes the same wishes and goes absolutely in the direction indicated by Senator Balboni. So the adoption of this agenda puts us in a position to abstain on the amendment to our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u71	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, of course I agree with the words of Senator Vitali, who anticipated me. I too would have liked to recall the G1.1 agenda, which was accepted by the Government in the Commission a few hours ago, and so it has already given a practical and practical solution to the problem that is rightly raised by colleagues in the opposition. I put the House before the hypothesis of a risk that we could take: we all know that the decree is running out and there is a real risk that with the approval of some amendments we will go to make the decree lapse, thus losing all the baby-sitting bonuses, with a whole series of negative consequences that might be necessary. I believe that the approval of the agenda in the Commission is a good enough route to enable the government to resolve the curfew in the next few days. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u74	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). We will vote in favour of amendment 1.6, because we are also convinced that in the current situation, with the decrease in infection, with the fact that the virus is also decreasing according to the seasonality of the viral strain to which it belongs, we must give a signal of return to normality, at the end of this emergency, always without lowering the guard. In yellow areas, where infection permits, it no longer makes sense to keep closed from 10 p.m. onwards. We will therefore vote in favour of amendment 1.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u75	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I see Senator La Russa suggests I want to intervene. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. If you want to speak later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since we are about to vote, you can speak later. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator La Russa, what would you like to intervene on? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr. President, I wanted to do this first. Thank you, but I give up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. The Presidency seeks to pay attention to requests for intervention and not to distract itself. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Lezzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to express their views on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u76	Mr President, I confirm that the opinion is in favour of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u77	Mr President, the Government's opinion on agendas G1.1 and G1.2 is favourable provided that the following proposal for reformulation is accepted: it commits the Government in May to assess, on the basis of the evolution of the epidemiological framework as well as the progress of the vaccination campaign, the updating of the decisions taken by Decree-Law No 52 of 22 April 2021, also reviewing the time limits of work and displacement.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u78	Senator Augussori, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.1 and G1.2? Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.1 (text 2) and G1.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda G.1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u79	Mr President, I welcome the fact that in the end the following words are added: 'in compliance with the regional planning functions'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u80	I ask the proposer, Senator Vitali, if he accepts the reformulation. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). I accept the rewording, but I would ask that we proceed to the vote anyway. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u81	Mr President, the Government accepts the G1.4 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u82	I ask Senator Fattori if he insists on voting on the agenda G1.4. I do not see Senator Fattori present here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u85	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to agenda G1.4 and I accept that it is accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u86	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G1.4 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1-a.0.1 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1-a.0.1, so I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u87	Mr President, I am in favour of the adoption of the G1-a.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u88	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G1- bis.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u89	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1 agenda. bis- 0.1 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u90	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendments 2.1 and 2.4 and call for the withdrawal of Amendments 2.2, 2.3 and 2.5. I am in favour of the G2.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u91	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. I welcome the agenda G2.1, subject to the following rewording in the commitments:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u92	Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u95	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, this amendment, on which the Government has expressed its opposition, also wants to support those who are suffering serious damage from this pandemic. The damage to the psyche of the children that the pandemic is behaving and acting accordingly should be examined - as we have done -. Mr President, I am afraid that Amendment 2.4 will also be rejected, as has been said about the time when, although there are no bombings, no planes that need to be checked if there is a light to bomb, everything must be closed and people must stay in the house. We are aware that the role of opposition, even as patriotic as ours, is hard because it clashes with the will to reject common sense proposals just because they come from the opposition. And it does not save the conscience some abstentions, indeed it worsens, because if you abstain on an opposition proposal it means that you are convinced that it is a good proposal but, since it comes from the opposition, you cannot vote on it. [[Applause.]] You win, then, against our amendments but - I say this without reference to any colleague in this House - it is Pirro's victory, and it is known that Pirro was a non-smart person, who had not understood that winning wretched battles meant losing the war. We wouldn't want to lose the war against common sense. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u98	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we share the spirit of this amendment and have tried this morning in the Commission to provoke a change of attitude. In fact, appreciated the circumstances, the decree-law must be converted by May 12 so there would be no time for a new passage to the Chamber of Deputies. We have tried to change the attitude by asking the opposition forces to turn some of the important amendments into agendas, and Amendment 2.4 certainly belonged to this category as far as we are concerned. Unfortunately, there has been no availability, which is why we will abstain on this amendment unless Brothers of Italy wants to turn it into an agenda to which we are giving our support right now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u101	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking with reference to amendment 2.4, only to point out that, in parallel, in the context of the conversion of the decree-law support, the Commissions have voted on an agenda, which commits the Government to a whole series of measures which face psychological discomfort and which must be included, in agreement with the Government, which accepted the agenda, in the next decree-law support bis (or business decree), in order to make them immediately effective. Senator La Russa, this is a complex agenda, which concerns three points relating to psychological discomfort. The first point calls - indeed, in a sense, it obliges - to expand the number of psychologists within the territorial services, through the deviation from 40 billion euros, already voted. He certainly knows that this type of measure is of value only until the end of the year, from deviation; then maybe they can be implemented and this is the work that we will do with the budget law. Another aspect of the commitments made is the strengthening of funding for schools that have already activated the school psychologist and, on the other hand, intervention on municipalities, precisely to benefit from this measure. So there is an agenda that commits the Government - it is not simply called upon the Government to "assess" the opportunity, but it is a clear commitment - to include such measures in the next decree-law. So there is already a measure approved by the Commissions. I point this out for the record and therefore I invite Senator La Russa to support this measure and to work together, to make further pressure, also because the next measure will become effective in the immediate, already next week. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u104	I remind you, Senator La Russa, that you have already intervened. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I just want to ask the representative of the Government whether the proposal to turn this amendment into an agenda, coming from the majority benches, is also taken over by the Government or whether it remains the opposite opinion even if the amendment is turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u105	Mr President, the Government is prepared to accept the agenda resulting from the transformation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u106	Senator La Russa, will you turn this amendment into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u107	Mr President, I welcome the Government's opinion and I also take note of the words of the Democratic Party Leader. In fact, it is important that this commitment, which was hidden in the folds of the debate in the Commission, be undertaken by the whole Parliament, thanks to the Brothers of Italy Group, here in this House. I therefore thank the Government, withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u108	The Presidency takes note of this. The rapporteurs also expressed their support for the adoption of the draft agenda. Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. A call for withdrawal was made on Amendment 2.5. Will the proposers withdraw the amendment? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Government representative gave a favourable opinion on the G2.1 agenda, subject to rewording. Does the proposer, Senator Iannone, accept the proposed reformulation? IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, we accept the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2-a of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u109	Mr President, it seems to me that Amendment 2-a.1 has been accepted as an agenda and, therefore, I would like to thank Senator Vitali who, by signing it in the Commission, has made it the G2-a.100 agenda. Basically, with the words "with minor children in distance teaching" the possibility is given to those who are seeing to get home really exaggerated folders by the Agency of revenue to make use of this facility. So it's definitely a good thing. The problem, however, remains. Colleagues senators, I'd like you to explore this issue with me. To the workers who have not paid for the files coming from the installment, the Revenue Agency is delivering increased folders up to 130 percent, with the expense of having to pay in sixty days. It's a very serious thing. We certainly cannot resolve it today because the measure before us is not enough, but I hope that the agenda, which I have presented and which has become a recommendation to the Government, will put an end to this great injustice. We, as a State, fight usury; the State cannot become a usurer.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u112	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to point out the change that has been made if it does not already appear in the benches of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u113	To recapitulate for an understanding for the Presidency and the Assembly, Senator Leonardo spoke on the agendas of the G2- bis.1 (correct text) and G2- bis.2. You, on the other hand, must point out to me which text you intend to speak on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u114	President, I am taking the floor on Amendment No 2-a.1, which has been turned into an agenda with a favourable opinion in the Commission of the rapporteurs and the Government with the following wording: "Until the end of the pandemic-related emergency by Covid-19, for taxpayers with minor children in distance teaching who have fallen from benefits" The rest is the same. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is clear what you have said in the content, but we do not have the reference text that has been sent to the House on this agenda. If you voted for it in the Commission, we have no record of it. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). We did it in the Commission. I thought the offices of the Commission had provided. We'll write it down now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to give us a number, at least. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u115	I ask the rapporteur to help us. We are in this situation: Amendment 2-a.1 has been declared unacceptable. Senator Vitali says that an agenda was voted on in the Commission, but it did not reach the House and the Presidency. Can you tell us what the fate of the agenda was?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u116	Mr President, it was indeed adopted as an agenda, as proposed by Senator Vitali. There is approval in the Commission. If we want to propose it again for this House, we can do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u117	The rapporteur, you must send us the text. I would now put him aside for a moment in order to be able to continue with the votes. If you send us the text quickly, let us try to solve the problem. As we were saying, Amendment 2-a.1 was declared inadmissible, as was Amendment 2-a. 0.1. The agenda for G2- bis.1 (correct text) is set out. As we resolve the issue of the agenda referred to by Senator Vitali, I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u118	Mr President, I am in favour of the G2-a.1 agenda (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u119	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G2- bis.1 (correct text) but with the following rewording: "compatible with the needs of public finance". The G2-a.2 agenda was adopted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u120	I ask Senator Iannone if he intends to accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G2- bis.1 (correct text) put forward by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u121	Yes, Mr President, I welcome the proposal for a rewording, but I would like to recommend to the Government the utmost attention on this matter because, following the decision of the Constitutional Court No 80 of 29 April 2021, the municipalities already in difficulty because in the procedure of rebalancing accompanied, due to the declaration of illegality of two paragraphs of Article 39 of the last thousand-pronged decree, will not be in a position to approve the forecast budgets. We are talking about more than 800 bodies, between municipalities and provinces, and a very urgent intervention by the Government is necessary to safeguard the local authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u122	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2- bis.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Lonardo, do you insist on voting on the agenda G2- bis.2?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u123	No, Mr President, I hope that we can keep in mind for the next decree of support, because it would be right for those people who do not ask not to pay, but who want to pay without increases in a country where they give the opportunity to people who have not paid not to pay. It would therefore be social justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u124	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G2-a.2 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Colleagues, in the meantime the text of the G2-a.100 agenda, which was adopted by the Commission, was referred to by Senator Vitali. As the presenter of Amendment 2-a.1 was Senator Lonardo, I ask you whether you agree with the presentation of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u125	Yes, Mr. President. I thank the Commission and the Government because I think this is already a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u126	The text of the G2-a.100 agenda is then submitted to the House for consideration, with the following amendment to the text of amendment 2. bis.1: "Until the end of the emergency related to the Covid-19 pandemic, for taxpayers with minor children in distance teaching (...) " Of course, the opinion of the rapporteurs is in favour. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u127	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u128	Having been accepted by the Government, the G2- bis.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. (at 12.10 p.m.) Amendment 2-bis.0.1 is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u131	LONARDO (Mixed). Mr President, it does not seem to me that the G2- bis.100 (text 2) and G2- bis agendas. 2 have been voted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u132	I did not preside over the House but I was told that they were accepted by the Government, in particular the agenda G2- bis.2 as a recommendation, and no one insisted on voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u135	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year now we have been at war against an invisible enemy, but today, after so much trench, we can look more confidently to the future. The change of pace of the vaccination campaign is making us proud of the political choices made in recent months, which led to the birth of the Draghi government and the new management of the extraordinary commissioner Son. On April 30, more than 515,000 vaccinations were carried out, with an average, in the seven days, of more than 340,000 doses administered, for a total of 21 million doses. These numbers shed light in the darkness of the past months and indicate the way out of the tunnel, but above all they give the perception, but more than perception the certainty, of being able to achieve immunity of flock by autumn. We must acknowledge that our intuitions, our courageous political choices, have proved correct and pay today for the many horrible words addressed to those who determinedly took the responsibility to make important decisions for the future of our Italy. Thanks to the President of the Council Mario Draghi, a climate of trust, enthusiasm, international authority and hope for the future has been rebuilt in our country. For a long time, and always on the basis of scientific data, we insisted on the need to reopen safely and in particular to restart the school in presence and outdoor activities. Today we believe that we must work for a further step, making it easier to travel between regions by promoting the vaccination pass at both European and global level. It is important, very important, to return to life. If responsibility prevails and the vaccination campaign continues as it should, we are convinced that the limitation of evening closures will also cease. We are happy that the majority have found with the Government the agreement on curfew; it is right that it is decided on the basis of the course of the contagions and the progress of the vaccinations: the more we immunize, the less we infect, the sooner our country starts again. Other considerations deserve the restaurateurs who have no outdoor space and some sporting activities that are still blocked, but that in fact could operate and carry out safely. The Covid and the restrictions have brought out new needs of family welfare and established a new balance between private life and work. The pandemic has changed perception in relation to some issues such as smart working, extraordinary parental leave and baby-sitting bonus. With this decree-law, we concretely help our families with children, forced to stay at home for the closure of schools or in quarantine, with smart working, extraordinary parental leave for the purchase of baby-sitting services and the bonus, for a total appropriation of about 300 million euros. After the pandemic, smart working will increasingly be part of the corporate welfare services, not only in order to flexibly reconcile all the moments of the day, but also to guarantee workers greater time autonomy in the performance of their duties and duties. There is more and more talk of smart welfare to define the new needs of the workers, with whom we will have to continue to confront to offer solutions and adequate support. Tomorrow in this House it will be another important measure in support of families and businesses, which puts a great deal of money into the mistakes that have been made in the past. Today, aware of having worked well for the country, Italy Viva strongly expresses the vote in favour of the decree-law in question. However, the challenges ahead are many and very difficult, but before anything else we need to think about restarting and we need to rethink the growth, the good debt of the National Recovery Plan and the reforms that Europe expects from us and that are primarily for Italy and for us Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u138	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, we are also going to make our protest speech, since, as is well known, protest interventions also have a specific role to play in the balance of power between majority and opposition. Then, if we also want to dehub them in annoyance, humming, disturbing, we obviously have a culture of institutions a bit cryptic, a little 'antan, that recalls other periods, perhaps a little 'darker, of the last century. Finally, Mr President, I should like to thank Mr De Vecchis, who, this morning, brought back a tragedy which occurred two days after 1 May: the tragedy - which my colleagues obviously remember - is that of poor Luana D'Orazio, yet another death at work. It is not a white death, as it is vulgarly called, but a dramatic and tragic death at work. It was news that risked being erased because of this celebration of May 1st that caught attention on the influencers, their hat and the need to capture social media, transforming what should have been a day to celebrate the work and to celebrate a drama (that of the work that is not there) on a day of confrontation on the amenities of social and on those who go after certain amenities. Thanks to Mr De Vecchis, we have tried today to bring the subject back to the attention of Parliamentary Assembly at least. The same thanks, Mr President, I cannot do so in the conduct of the House that preceded it, because asking for a minute of silence after Mr De Vecchis had paid attention to this issue was a rather shabby and distracted passage to say the least. I therefore close the further square parenthesis and I am going to deal with the subject on the agenda, which is that of a measure on which we are called today to debate but having a debate which, as it were, if it were a love it would be Platonic: this measure has already inspired its effects; by the admission of many of the speakers it is a sort of due act, which has seen the Senate Assembly committed to ratify, without even the slightest possibility of improving it, a measure already inspired. In the Commission this morning, for example, this has emerged plastically, even in the unwillingness - I say this to my colleagues who have urged this attitude on the part of the Brothers of Italy - to turn our amendments into wishes, that is to say, on agendas. We have been asked for this additional willingness on matters of absolute common sense, on things that we have well illustrated in the Commission and which are part of the daily debate that engages our fellow citizens. For example, I say one that I have been explaining and saying for more than a year in this House: do enough swabs and tests to detect Covid-19 infection in the famous asymptomatics. As I explained to my colleagues in the Commission this morning, there are also songs that deal with the need to find the asymptomatic, but there are no measures by a government and a minister who apparently seems to be afraid of finding the positives at Covid, even asymptomatic or presantomatic, capable of infecting. Other amendments concerned the possibility of regions restricting red areas according to the epidemiological trend of the contagion curve; others concerned the need to reopen gyms and swimming pools or curfew. Colleagues, these are measures of absolute common sense and not of mere protest, which, if they had found room at least in the Government's willingness to express its opinion in favour of their transformation into agendas, would not have caused such a great, strong, enormous discomfort as to endanger this hypertrophic majority, which has a thousand problems, but the only problem it does not have is to put together four numbers to overcome the passage in the Chamber. In fact, what blocks you - as Mr La Russa said in his speech from the benches of the Chamber - is that you cannot have the intellectual strength to admit that there can be something concrete and honest proposed by the opposition. Well, I am not unaware that this is a game of the parties, which can be in normal conditions, i.e. normal democratic exchange within the Senate House; but it cannot be in special conditions like this. The speciality of these conditions is given on the one hand by an emergency that we have been dragging for over fifteen months and that calls us all to a greater sense of duty and on the other by the fact that you have such a wide and hypertrophic majority that obviously, instead of increasing the function of the organ (as happens for every hypertrophy), limits it, conditions it and prevents its regular functioning. Compared to all this, colleagues, the activity and work of Brothers of Italy will multiply to make people understand what is happening at this very particular moment in the politics of our country. In this attempt to explain the inexplicable and in this attempt to restore to normality a completely schizophrenic condition, there is also the story that pertains to the declaimed by all and by no desired Commission of inquiry on the development and management of the emergency Covid and the entire National Health Service; established by law forty-three years ago. Well, this Commission would be a very trivial act, to comply with a minimum of presence on a dramatic issue such as the Covid-19 emergency. I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that a Commission of Inquiry into the functioning of the National Health Service has been set up in all legislation, without considering Covid-19. Today, more than 15 months after the announcement of the state of emergency, let alone whether it would not be appropriate for Parliament to deal with this very trivial problem. Moreover, all regions are regulating committees of inquiry on the Covid-19; in those governed by the center-right it is proposed by the left, in those governed by the center-left (the few remaining) it is proposed by the center-right. Parliament, on the other hand, is like the Titanic's quackers: the ship is sinking and we, colleagues, are turning to the other side. Also on this Brothers of Italy is absolutely linear and coherent: there was a text before the Covid-19 already deposited in the Health Commission and had been incardinated; then a unified text had been drawn up starting from all the proposals deposited, but this initiative has been lost in nothingness, in the mists, in the meanders of a parliamentary activity that stops to ratify, that deals with the straws and does not deal with the beams in the eyes of the parliamentarians, the senators, those who are simply in the world, they travel around the territories and collect the requests of our citizens. Colleagues, this story must see us seriously committed to putting our hands back to the progress of the pandemic management and to the enormous challenges that our Health Service faces every day. We have again tabled a bill in this regard, which also takes into account the Covid-19 emergency; we look forward to understanding whether you will all make yourselves available to fulfil an absolutely incompressible duty of this Senate of the Republic and of the National Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u141	FADELI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this measure is in continuity with what has been done over the last 12 months: it addresses important aspects of the current emergency and is aimed at effectively managing the direct and indirect consequences of the pandemic. If, on the one hand, it is necessary to keep high attention to the development of contagions, on the other hand, it is indispensable to anticipate, as far as possible, the difficulties that will arise tomorrow. In particular, once the health emergency has ceased - and we hope that flock immunity will soon come - there will be a social, economic and psychological emergency to be addressed. According to the Istat data of March 2021, there were 900,000 fewer jobs, predominantly women, than in the same month of 2020. Labour income for households decreased by 90 billion euros and payrolls dropped by 6.9%. Our economy is in a state of great suffering and politics must be able to respond quickly, decisively and with vision and confidence in the future for all. The population is tired and increasingly tried by more than a year of sacrifices. The budgetary deviation already voted may undoubtedly help to sustain the activities with fair economic aid, even much more substantial than the previous ones (we will discuss it from this afternoon); but at the same time it is urgent to address all the structural problems that have emerged in recent months and to dissolve those nodes, overcome those structural gaps that characterize our economy and our society. The central point is the work. We must start again from work, from job-creating investments. [[Applause]] - this is the political point of vision and necessity of the country - to really address and give us all together the prospect of full and good employment, starting to dissolve one by one the decisive issues that have long awaited a turning point. We need to invest in increasing employment for women and young people; we need to overcome the historical disparity in protection between self-employment and employees; we need to seriously and organically review the social protection instruments for workers and workers, including by monitoring and improving the testing of measures in favour of self-employed professionals that we have recently introduced. We need to complete an organic reform of the tax system - I stress, in particular to the Government - starting with the universal single allowance. [[Applause]] to build a system that facilitates the simplicity of the relationship between the State, businesses and families and that encourages free initiative, loyalty and fiscal transparency. It is also necessary to look constructively at the many innovations that have emerged during the emergency, starting with the agile working methods, trying to make the most of their opportunities and limit the risk of abuse, of reducing protection and, above all, avoiding exchanging what is a different way of organizing work, businesses and cities with a conciliation instrument dedicated only and exclusively to women. [[Applause]] Structural solutions must be found. The issue of women's unemployment is a serious problem for our country and so we must be careful that women's work is not further burdened with unpaid work on agile work. We must share parenthood and we must tackle, for all this, all the instruments that make gender equality effective for access to employment and in the workplace. For these reasons we believe that the health and social emergency we are experiencing risks - if we are not careful about these aspects - exasperating the unbearable inequalities that affect women and making us take dangerous steps back. One of the answers that is necessary to give quickly is relative to the pay gap that still disfavors the workers of our country. I therefore come to the content of the measure under consideration today. Although limited to dealing with contingent circumstances, they go exactly in the desired direction, that of offering more protection to workers with minor children or with disabilities, regardless of the type of work, whether they are employed or self-employed. I recall the introduction, until June 30, 2021, of a series of measures in favour of workers with children to deal with the eventuality, which with the reopening of schools could still occur, of the suspension of educational and educational activities following a contagion or preventive quarantine measures. For public and private employees with children under 16 years of age, the possibility of using smart working until the entire period of suspension of school activities and in case of infection with Covid or quarantine is first rehabilitated. This possibility is provided for both parents of children of any age with established disabilities or specific learning disabilities or even pupils with special educational needs. For employees with children under 14 years of age, the possibility of taking special leave, for all or part of the period of suspension of the child's activities, with the recognition of an allowance of 50% of the remuneration and the payment of the figurative contribution relating to the entire remuneration, is also recognised in the case of contagion or quarantine. It is also possible to convert the leave taken from 1 January to 13 March 2021 into special leave in the same terms as the previous one. Abstention from work, in case of inability to work agile, will also be one of the possibilities recognized to parents with children from fourteen to sixteen years, always under the circumstance of a child obliged in the home. The measure to our examination also previews a return of the bonus baby-sitting until 30 June for all the workers enrolled in the management separate, for the self-employed and - I emphasize it in particular - for the staff of the section security, defense, local police and public rescue and, finally, this possibility extends to all the professionalities of the public and private health sector [[Applause]] , repairing an unreasonable disparity between professions and professions. This intervention therefore recognizes very important new elements. Finally, it reiterates a very important concept, already expressed in part in the past: the right to disconnect for workers and employees, a not insignificant issue, in order to ensure that the agile work does not become a non-stop work relationship without hours and without any protection, in short, without respect for the times to be dedicated to the family, to rest, to leisure or to psychophysical well-being. [[Applause]] Of course, there is still a lot of work to be done and there will be more in the coming months. Citizens and citizens need reassurance, it is true, but as members of the Democratic Party we believe that the country also needs a decisive change of pace: that work and sustainable growth are put back at the centre, as prescribed by the Next Generation EU, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that we have already approved and the UN 2030 agenda. I think that with these perspectives and with these policies that will really change our working and living conditions for the better, we rekindle the hope that many citizens, women, young and old are asking us today and wanting to participate also in the prospect of rebirth of a country that needs extreme courage and self-confidence. This measure is a further step in this direction, which had already been decided and which was necessary and useful for social innovation, digital and environmental transition. For these reasons, but more and more looking to the future, I declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u144	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the decree for our attention has practically all its effects. Above all, the restrictive and cautious measures according to Covid arrive until Easter, so our discussion and often also the agendas are linked to a situation that is evolving and with respect to which all the effects have already been fulfilled. On the other hand, there are many absolutely fundamental issues on which the decree, in particular with Article 2, continues to carry out all its effects. I am referring to those mentioned also by Senator Fedeli and which mainly concern agile work for employees with living children under sixteen years of age. Among other things, some very positive changes have been made during the debate in the House. The basic possibility of overtime leave has been included for employees with children living under the age of fourteen and also for parents of children with disabilities. There is a whole series of absolutely fundamental rules that concern and address one of the biggest problems that have been encountered in this terrible year. The babysitter bonus will also be extended for self-employed persons. These measures basically try to intervene with regard to the problem of the closure of schools and distance learning, so the parents - almost always mothers, therefore women - had to take care at the same time to continue working with the smart working and to follow their children. By this I mean that when we deal with the many issues that the pandemic has put before us, we now know from very clear data that the greatest weight of all this dramatic situation is laid on women. With this pandemic, in fact, structural issues have come to light that already existed, particularly as regards the employment of women and the quality of work. Women often have precarious, intermittent and even poorer jobs (which are the ones that have been lost the most). This is a photograph of reality that we cannot fail to see. Data from this dramatic situation that has weighed heavily on women tell us that this is one of the areas where a change operation is needed. During the examination of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we discussed a great deal about the fact that one of the key issues to be addressed is territorial, generational and gender inequalities. In this decree there is a part that takes pictures of the situation and tells us that structural policies must be put in place to tackle this structural problem. There can be no recovery in the country unless we can give a strong stimulus to women's employment, if we do not invest heavily in school, even in order to reconcile working life with the care of children. The distance learning and the consequent need for connection also signal us the very strong need to promote the innovation and digitalization of the country, with a strong investment in the school. The decree-law under consideration (whose rules in Article 1 have exhausted their effects) contains very important measures in the area of agile work, parental leave, abstention from work, overtime leave and baby-sitting bonuses, thus with the aim of helping families. I would like to address a frankly surprising issue. The House of Deputies has been introduced in Article 1 a rule that I really cannot understand, concerning the Mater Olbia Hospital. I cannot understand how such a rule has been found to be compatible with the measure and admissible. In practice, there is an operation frankly very questionable, because it introduces in the decree a derogation until 2026, also for the application of tariffs, for this structure, which is private. I would remind you that an agenda has been presented and discussed in the Commission on this subject. As you know, the Mater Olbia Hospital was born from the partnership between Qatar Foundation Endowment and Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS and produced a lot of debate and discussion in Sardinia, as it is a structure with very high costs. In Sardinia there are problems regarding the hospital in Nuoro and, all the more, given the pandemic in progress, if it had wished to intervene in favour of the Region, investments for public health should have been promoted. On the other hand, there is an extension until 2026 as regards beds and salaries also for the emergency. So, of the two l 'one: or someone has plans to live hot summers in Costa Smeralda from here to 2026 (this is a decree in the matter of Covid and maybe you assume a rise of the contagions), or the norm is honestly very, but very questionable and it is frankly incredible that it has been introduced within this provision. This will create problems, discussions and great difficulties for Sardinia itself. I find it scandalous that a rule such as this is included in the decree, while there are very serious problems in some public hospital structures as regards Sardinia and also in nearby hospitals. I am now addressing another issue: we have also discussed a number of agendas today and yet another debate has opened on curfew and openings. Once and for all, we must be clear on this matter, because - as you see - despite all the controversy about Count and others, we always proceed by decrees and we are called to convert decrees that are already concluded in their effects. But we know perfectly well, because it is the day-to-day and constant debate that has taken a reasoned risk. When you say "reasoned," it means you have to reason. So, we know perfectly well that we will verify the data. We all hope that everyone will use caution and that the precautionary principle will be applied, because the only thing we cannot afford as a country is that, after the expectation of reopening and the gradual reopening, then we do not observe the rules, we give the message of the "freetan everyone" and we are finally forced to close. This would be very devastating and would create many problems for recovery. We will vote in favour of this draft law, with all the comments we have made, and I also hope that once and for all we will close the tantalizing debate on the extra hour and the less time, when we know that we will all have to see the data together and verify them. This is what our country needs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u147	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are debating a decree-law dealing with restrictions on the Covid pandemic, although it would appear to be less interesting; we are also aware of the lack of presence, unfortunately, of colleagues in this House today, because it is a decree-law which concerns measures that have already fallen. It refers, in fact, to restrictions reminiscent of a period that ended as early as 6 April. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we are examining this measure at second reading and that in the House of Deputies someone has tried to turn it into something that was not really a fire-fighting decree. In fact, this decree-law anticipates the rules of the decree "repeals," because we have seen how some issues, repeatedly raised, are often resolved. It must be remembered that the House has been approved an agenda, which was then approved in the Commission - as the colleague of the League said - which commits the Government, precisely with regard to the vexed question of curfew, to review the hours of the evening closures. That is right to remember, because, on several occasions, there has perhaps been too much controversy over the time issue. We have all seen how the opening operation outside the restaurants, in both daytime and evening hours, has actually unlocked the situation. In fact, I have even been worried: in my city I have seen thousands of people around and I must admit that I was able to verify with great pleasure that people immediately regained confidence. Therefore, the measures wanted by the Government Draghi have made to share the confidence in the future and above all towards those operators of the sector most penalized, bars and restaurants, that have seen strongly diminished their volume of business, causing in fact the closure, for too long, of their activities. In fact, a process of new hope and confidence has already begun, reopening in those hours. With regard to evening closures there is now a decision that essentially in mid-May - so in a few days - we will verify what will happen; the progress of the pandemic is crucial. Today I have here with me a page of the "Corriere della Sera" which reports some statements of the General Son, and it is right that I say this as a demonstration of the fact that what interests us most is to get out of the pandemic. And the only solution for this to happen is for the national vaccination plan to function as a rule of art and to go forward according to the expectations of General Son. And then, I want to report some data that follow the news of just three days ago: in Italy the goal that the Government Dragons had set itself to reach at least 500,000 vaccinations a day has been achieved and exceeded. [[Applause]] This is something we cannot forget, because it means that the statements of the members of this Government then find concrete realization. I just want to mention a few significant facts that want to introduce some optimistic spirit - holy God! - that we need so much. [[Applause]] From April 10 to today it has been found - words of general Francis Paul the Son - less 26 percent of deaths [[Applause]] , and it takes applause on this; less than 34 percent of ordinary admissions and less than 31 percent of intensive care admissions. [[Applause]] Because many say we like numbers, here they are. These are the numbers that this Government is obviously able to do. [[Applause]] I want to say that all this is necessary because we, who are representatives of the people here in Parliament, in a pathological situation that has been going on for over a year in this country, need to regenerate a constructive spirit, a positive spirit that - we note it with approval even today - makes the pair with another interesting news, dear colleagues. I am referring to the fact that from mid-May we will have the green pass [[Applause]] , that maybe the League will like it very much because it is a color to their liking, but I also like it because we love everything that is green. That's right, dear Undersecretary. The good news that was given by Minister Garavaglia to our Prime Minister Draghi is that we will finally be able to compete, on equal terms, with the competition of Greece and Spain. [[Applause.]] If we hadn't had a chance to compete, they'd have stolen all the tourists. [[Applause]] And we can't afford that. We have an extraordinary offer and we are able to compete at high levels. These are the fundamental issues, together with the many others that are contained in the decree-law under consideration, which concern the deleted age limit for the access of parents of children with disabilities, in situations of established seriousness, to overtime leave; access to agile work also allowed to parents of children under sixteen not living together; the performance of work in agile mode allowed also for the suspension of educational activity as well as didactic. These are some of the measures contained in this decree-law that are certainly very important and derive from the necessity linked, unfortunately in many cases, to the closure of schools that today - we find this too - are reopened [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, since we have an enormous responsibility to represent the Italian people in Parliament, we must be aware of the real and essential reason for which we have enthusiastically joined President Mattarella's invitation to compose, together with other political formations, such as the League, close to us in coalition, a Government of national unity. When you are in difficulty you have to get together, overcoming even the many differences that there were, that there are and will be with other political formations; and this in order to achieve the objectives that I was talking about just now, hoping that the Italian people will find the strength, that they have found in the past, to overcome the moments of difficulty and sail towards new shores, towards new opportunities and towards a new economic growth, using - why not? - European resources as well. [[Applause]] It is in this spirit that the Forza Italia Group declares the vote in favour of the decree-law in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u150	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, allow me to make a point at the beginning of my speech. Just now we remembered the Tuscan girl, who died at work. Unfortunately, in the last few hours, news has arrived of another fatal accident, this time in Busto Arsizio, in the province of Varese, in Lombardy, under similar circumstances. I would like to associate myself, with all my colleagues in the Group, with the pain of the family, expressing my condolences both for the Tuscan girl and for the Varese worker. [[Applause]] Mr President, on the subject of our debate, with today's vote we conclude the examination, in the two branches of Parliament, of the decree-law, which, in the now entrenched system of alternating monocameralism, has remained in the examination of the Chamber of Deputies for a long time. The time has been very tight for us and, considering that next week the Assembly will be engaged in the examination of the Covid Decree-Law of April, after the one under consideration, it was almost mandatory to conclude our examination in less than twenty-four hours. In the Commissions meeting 1st and 11th, we incardinated the measure at 2 p.m. yesterday and, only by compressing the amendment phase, we were able to bring the measure to the House today. It is certainly good that the Covid rules are now established with a decree-law, a rule of primary rank, and no longer with the DCCM of Count and Casalino, but we are still far from the full involvement of Parliament. Objectively, on this particular occasion this was difficult to implement, since the rules in question, valid for the period from 15 March to 6 April, including Easter in the red zone, were in fact already exceeded even during the first reading examination in the Chamber of Deputies. It would therefore have been a mere academic exercise to go to intervene on the merits, being the thing completely ineffective, not being equipped with a time machine. In fact, the adoption of some sudden amendments would perhaps have reclassified some red zone in the yellow zone and would have established that some activities in March could have opened. But the amendment cannot make customers and the resulting receipts appear out of nowhere, in March. Dear friends of Brothers of Italy, the only effect would have been the loss of refreshments: beyond the damage, even the mockery. This is the effect of an opposition made by party taken and not objective. However, it is to be noted, with satisfaction, that the season of total bans is over. The media terrorism of those who would like to see us all locked up eternally in an anti-atomic bunker of Soviet memory has been overclassed by the pragmatism of President Draghi [[Applause]] which, speaking of calculated risk, started the reopening season. This was possible because in this Government, the voice of the League and Matteo Salvini opposed the positions aimed at an anachronistic and excessive prudence. [[Applause]] The evening reopenings of restaurants, although for now only outdoors, and the resumption of some categories of activities are only the beginning. Now we must proceed quickly and always and only where scientific data allow it. It is a condition that we want to reiterate and underline decisively: always and only where scientific data allow it. Verifications must then be carried out quickly and further steps must be taken to open. We ask first of all for the cessation or, in the alternative, the shift of evening curfew hours. For catering there would be a double advantage: sanitary, with the possibility to dilute the presences in a wider time slot, and economic because it would allow a double turn of customers. With the arrival of the summer and the progress of the vaccination campaign it must be allowed to return to a social activity, even in the evening belt, which, if carried out outdoors - as demonstrated by several scientific studies - is not to the detriment of the containment of the contagions. The approval of our curfew and reopening agendas just now is a clear commitment that the government has made. There is another issue that, as a Lega Group, we want to bring to the attention of the Assembly and we do so even more strongly after the House has inserted Article 1-a into the provision, which allows for facilities for visits to prisoners. We ask to be able to reopen the visits also to those who, in fact, we can call innocent prisoners, guests of health care residences (RSA), nursing homes and the like. [[Applause]] Tens and tens of thousands of people for more than a year cannot see their loved ones. Now they are all vaccinated and there is no reason to keep this limitation alive. We do more harm to them to deprive them of a hug and the affection of one or more family members. If we want to proceed with caution, let us at least implement our proposal quickly to allow at least access to the RSA for those who hold the green certification. If we have established it, let us use it for something certainly useful that would also allow us to see with greater sympathy what is currently perceived as a further bureaucratic burden, limiting and negative. We immediately allow - I appeal to the Government - those who are vaccinated, cured by Covid or have a negative buffer to enter the RSA and embrace grandparents, fathers and mothers. In the last few hours on the media and perhaps in an even more important forum, this morning in the Commission the Government has expressed itself in this regard and, therefore, we are largely confident. With this wish, with the spirit of responsibility that characterizes my Group, giving confidence to the choices of President Draghi, who has shown that he is able to listen, as well as to know how to do, to announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u153	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, for the difficult battle against the Covid-19, even now that the vaccination campaign is finally taking off and taking the right course both in terms of planning and organisation, as well as of greater participation, reaching even the 500,000 doses per day, the broad and convinced participation of citizens remains of fundamental importance; their spirit of solidarity and belonging to the community and the conviction in each of us that their correct behaviors affect more or less directly the health of others. The greatest obstacles encountered so far in the planning of the fight against the Covid-19 are to be traced back to achieving the right balance between the various health and economic measures that necessarily involve and affect our social life. These measures must of course be able - on the one hand - to limit and combat the circulation and spread of the virus and its emerging variants, thus lowering the curve of the contagions and - on the other hand - the same must not upset even more than has happened so far the economic structure of our country, its social fabric, with the involvement of the same difficult family balances. It is not a problem of disproportionate rigidity or excessive caution. All this stems from the obvious need to proceed with due and utmost attention. We are faced with an extremely aggressive and widespread virus. This is demonstrated by the millions of victims in the world and the data of the contagions in their cold and aseptic detection. I believe that all those who at first unwisely stated that what was happening in the initial phase of the pandemic was inflated almost by art or extraordinarily excessive, so that the closures, restrictions and lockdowns adopted were disproportionate to the real gravity and that, on the contrary, everything had to be opened, in the end they had to completely rethink, having to objectively recognize that the prudence and security measures adopted were indispensable, perhaps to be discussed in their complexity or to be blunted in some passages, but necessary and not differable. In this difficult and unfortunately long way all the measures and measures - in my opinion - have been and will have to be inspired and guided by a criterion of graduality and progressiveness. It's not about being strict or open-minded. There can be no two factions in front of a single enemy, the virus. It is simply a matter of being balanced in decisions and commensurate in choices. We must proceed in this difficult passage that will have to take us out of the tunnel of the pandemic crisis, always relying on science, the measures suggested by scholars and objective data, related to the indices of contagion of the various territories and the consequent rates of occupation of intensive therapies. All this information, together with others, photograph perfectly and objectively the epidemiological reality and must guide the consequent political choices. There is no doubt that courage is also needed in decisions and decisions, which must not mean unscrupulousness. On the contrary, there must be the right awareness, logic and consequentiality in the measures taken. Reasoning with rationality and objectivity, without letting go of disproportionate enthusiasm, but adopting logical choices, clear and absolutely proportionate to the gravity of the moment: only in this way can you avoid choices that will then repent and from which could arise harmful retromarce. You can't make pindaric flights or ride the wave of populism or simply counter, shout at the scandal and state unmistakably that everything is wrong and everything is to be redone, with a behavior that doesn't take absolutely account of the objectivity relative to the epidemiological situation. Contamination data are indisputable figures to be taken into account and to be reflected on. There is no rule of "everything" that is right or "everything" is wrong. There is only the common sense of responsible confrontation and sharing of choices. The principle that must guide our behaviors and choices must be unique and clear. The health of the individual citizen must be put first. A common effort, beyond the various political positions, is indispensable and must be made, just as commitment and sacrifice are demanded of the whole community. All of us must implement it in due and heartfelt respect for the many sufferings and the tens of thousands of victims that Covid-19 has provoked and continues to reap. The Conte Government had traced a path, even between the many difficulties and the many and complex problems that have made it difficult to walk: the latter obstacles to be traced back, not only to the pandemic, but often to crossed and opposed vetoes, facts a priori, in the search turned out vain of visibility and consensus [[Applause]] or even in an unsuccessful attempt to undermine the popularity and consensus of those who led the government at the most dramatic and critical moment of the pandemic for our country. The measures taken in this and in other measures, like the PNRR itself, go in the direction of that path already undertaken, despite the obvious variations and adjustments necessary, due to the changed general epidemiological situations and the availability of increasing vaccination doses. As said, all this represents an implicit and indirect recognition of the goodness of the work carried out by Giuseppe Conte and the Government which he presided over [[Applause]] The 5 Star Movement has given and continues to give its trust to a Government that moves in this direction and is constantly committed to proposing measures and measures that protect first of all the health of citizens, in particular the most fragile subjects and the most endangered categories. At the same time, these measures constitute concrete support for the most difficult people and protection for those who really live on their own every day the dramatic consequences of the crisis. The Movimento 5 Stars is always there, every day and for everyone. He is present and works in the interest of the country. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u156	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, at the Sars-Cov-2 we are beginning to know many things, both because there are many scientific studies and because there is a beginning to be the data of experience to help us. For example, we know that, like many respiratory viruses, such as the most frequent coronary virus, this is also a seasonal virus; we saw it last spring and last summer when the contagions faded and in fact the data show us this also today. We have quite a large number of places in intensive care today, 73 percent, just as 71-72 percent of non-critical areas are free, so we are no longer in an emergency situation. The contagions have dropped, almost all the regions are in the yellow zone and this must be said clearly. With the decree-law under consideration we are missing the opportunity to give a signal of normality, of return to normality, always with high vigilance, but taking the country out of the emergency. In particular, I strongly criticize the non-approval of those amendments that would have allowed to reopen the activities of gyms, swimming pools, dance schools, in short, everything that could always be done in the yellow areas and in compliance with the current guidelines on health prevention. In the same way critical the lack of opportunity to extend the possibility to keep the premises open and to be able to circulate freely even after 22 hours, obviously always in the yellow zones, and therefore where there are no clusters or particular situations of high contagion. This opportunity has not been taken up and Parliament has not actually been able to fully discuss these measures, not least because we have to convert decree-laws that have already made their effectiveness effective when we convert them. Let's go back to normal, carefully but without doing media terrorism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u157	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.16 a.m. and resumed at 16.37 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u158	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2144. The rapporteurs, Senators Toffanin and Missa, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are at the end of the first reading in the Senate of the decree-law supports; a path that has joined the parliamentary groups in order to give effective answers to the country, to the citizens, to the families, to the workers, to the students, on which the crisis is becoming increasingly fierce. I thank the Government, the ministers Franco and D'Incà, the Deputy Minister Castelli here present, the undersecretaries Bini and Durigon, the Presidents of the Finance and Budget Commissions, the Group Heads and Commissioners all, the officials and offices, as well as the co-rapporteur, Senator Misses, for the work done in the Commissions and for the spirit of true collaboration that characterized the activity despite the distinction of the different sensibilities of the various parliamentary groups. Let me also thank the opposition, which has contributed to the successful conclusion of the examination of this measure. Parliament has finally regained a central role in the legislative process, because its action, at the time of this measure, has undoubtedly been incisive, both for the significant amending activity to the text of the draft law, and for having engaged the Government, through agendas voted in the Commission, to address other issues requested by Parliament in the support decree- bis. The path in the Commissions for the conversion of the decree-law has seen the Parliamentary Groups identify amending proposals that responsibly can give effective answers to those who are outside the Palace and who in recent months have seen and unfortunately continues to see their loved ones die, their own activity, their work; vanish their dreams; lose the most carefree years of youth and the fundamental periods of didactic activity, determining for the personal growth and for the future of an entire generation. Therefore, a number of major issues have been identified at parliamentary level, on which convergence has been found without breaking the available resources into so many imperceptible and therefore ineffective streams. These are very important issues, starting with support for companies with regard to fixed costs, which they must, however, bear even if they are unable to operate fully. We are talking about measures such as the extension of the suspension of the Tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP) and the Canon for the occupation of public spaces and areas (COSAP) end of the year; the suspension of the first installment IMU for tourist activities and commercial activities penalized by closures; the suspension to 100% of the RAI fee for the whole 2021 for the activities to which it has been imposed not to work, including those related to the third sector; the tax concessions for the tenants who in 2020 have suffered morosity, in addition to the institution of funds to dedicate to the completion of the cycles of doctorandi and measures in favor of the tourist buses, the startups, the local broadcasters. Other measures are in support of fragility, such as the establishment of the fund for separate parents or in support of tourism, such as the fund dedicated to spas and that for the enhancement of our cities of art and our villages. Important is the fund dedicated to corporate welfare and amateur sports companies, as is significant the extension of the Regional Tax on Production Activities (IRAP) at the end of September and the postponement of one year for the reporting of the relevant debt exposure related to the Code of the corporate crisis and insolvency, although here it would have been necessary a more radical intervention with a real extension to differ a rule that is not compatible with the pandemic period that we are experiencing and the consequent economic crisis. The recognition of the right to work and the protection of health for professionals are also worth mentioning. In addition, the vaccination plan included the priority of access to vaccines for cancer patients in follow-up and the possibility of carrying out vaccines to voluntary nurses of the Red Cross. In short, these are a series of measures that at parliamentary level have completed the decree, but that will be even more effective in combination with the other commitments required by the Government for the provision support- bis through a further intervention on fixed costs such as the reduction of the Waste Tax (Tari) and the extension and extension of the tax credit for rentals for non-housing use; the injections of liquidity to companies through new state guarantee funds and a moratorium for existing loans; valuable resources for the restart. Greater attention is also required for seasonal workers and an increase of 100 million for the mountain sector. All this completes the decree that already in itself distinguishes itself from the previous ristori for the ratio with which it was conceived through the widening of the audience of the recipients of the contributions to lost funds and the elimination of the crucial criticalities deriving from the use of the codes Ateco, even in the unchanged availability of the resources - I remember 32 billion - voted with the deviation last January, resources with which they had to face several themes. The measure consists of five titles. Title I is devoted to support for businesses and the economy with articles that include grants for businesses, with a coverage of €11.15 billion; support for the mountain sector; implementation of the fund for self-employed and professional workers of €1.5 billion; and also the intervention reserved for tax compliance through the extension of the period of suspension of the collection agent's activities and the introduction of the cancellation of residual debts up to €5,000 of individual loads in respect of the period from 1 January 2000 to 31 September 2010 for income not exceeding 30,000. Subsequently reference is made to the increase of 420 million for the fund dedicated to the electric utilities and to the tariff of the RAI canon that - as I have evidenced above - the amending activity has wanted to complete. Title II provides for provisions on work, mainly by increasing the integration fund, providing allowances for seasonal workers in tourism and sport, without neglecting measures to support fragility, exonerated contributions for agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors. Title III provides for health and safety measures, allocating €2.8 billion for vaccines and medicines for the care of the Covid and €51.6 million for the Covid hotels. Title IV concerns local authorities with assistance of 1.5 billion in favour of municipalities, metropolitan cities and provinces; reimbursement of the health costs of the regions for emergencies for the year 2020; the partial refreshment of the municipalities against revenues not received through the residence tax. This title also includes the fund set up at the MEF to support the economic activities of the regions affected by the emergency and the fund of 800 million to support local public transport in 2021. On the other hand, Title V includes the other urgent provisions, measures to promote educational activities and for the recovery of students' skills, also with regard to the support of school activities in digital form for the regions of the Mezzogiorno, measures to support universities and artistic and research training and, again, the protection of persons with disabilities, measures for the functionality of the police and police forces, port offices, the armed forces, the extension of the operation "Safe roads," which with the amending activity has been supported with 10 million euros, and all measures for the fair system, production chains, culture and civil protection. Now the decree of support was published in the Official Journal on March 22, late compared to the previous restaurants voted before Christmas and compared to the sharpening of the crisis, but in the very first months of this year we have seen the events that we all know: the crisis and the fall of the Government Count II and the institution of the Government Dragons. Already from the first measures, including the present, there has been a change of pace that has been confirmed with the final elaboration of the PNRR, a fundamental plan for the restart and the future of the country system, made significant by the integration of the contents of the new draft and then sent to Brussels in the prescribed terms. These are the steps forward that were hoped for with the birth of this new Government of national unity and public health, Government that now, with vaccinations, gradual reopenings and the progressive improvement of the measures, thanks to a participatory Parliament, will give an effective impulse to those who are asking for concrete aid for months and months. It is clear that it would have been desirable to implement further measures in support of the country and that we can and must do better, but it is equally clear that only the restart towards a new, but full normality will favor the recovery of our economy and above all of our lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u160	I call the rapporteur, Senator Manca.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u161	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Minister Daniele Franco, Minister D'Incà and Deputy Minister Laura Castelli, who, together with the undersecretaries Caterina Bini and Claudio Durigon, have worked with intensity and with a great spirit of cooperation. I want to start from this first reasoning, by sharing the entire report that the co-rapporteur, Senator Toffanin, has just carried out, because, in my opinion, it is significant of the identity that we wanted to give to this process of collaboration that I believe is a beautiful page of fruitful and positive collaboration between Parliament and the Government. In fact, there has been a great collaboration of the technical structure of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, which must never be forgotten, starting with the head of Cabinet, Dr. Chiné, but representing all the different articulations of a very important Department of Finance, because there is also the fundamental criteria of constitutional principles: impartiality and professionalism are decisive elements in order to safeguard the future of the country and elements of thirdness that I believe are to be reiterated in front of every measure, because there has been a very long and complex path. For several months now, the pandemic crisis has forced us to have budget laws under virtually false names, in the sense that they are Covid decrees, which actually have in the complexity of a budget law the fundamental element from which we must start. This collaboration, therefore, has been real and real and has also allowed us to build great convergence in the political forces of majority that support this Government and above all to work also with the oppositions, even in the distinction of roles, within a loyal collaboration, that has determined some agreements that have together allowed the conclusion of a path not trivial, neither obvious, but very complex, that obviously the decree-law itself contained. The pillars of the decree are essentially four and represent important support. In the measure we address a real issue of support for businesses, VAT consignments and the most fragile economy. This is an important support, which has also marked the fundamental identity of conversion, through which we in Parliament wanted to put the majority that supports the Government in the conditions to be accompanied by a real fragility. The pandemic crisis required many measures to limit many small activities and it was right to respond to this demand for help, which also risked being an opposition between institutions and small realities that could have produced conflict and certainly led to a slowdown in the country's economic restart. It has therefore been decided (here there are no first-signed amendments, but of all the majority groups) to give a significant response to these issues. I am referring to the total exemption from the payment of the first IMU instalment for companies that have lost turnover and I believe that, when converting into Parliament, EUR 216 million for a first important reduction in the fixed costs of companies corresponds to the first duty we have, namely to intervene to respond to the reduction of fixed costs and to rebuild a fair collaboration between the State and the small economic activities that have been strongly affected by the pandemic limitations. We have done so by intervening on the IMU and by zeroing the cost of employment of public land. The so-called coffee table tax is unbearable; when we ask small economic activities to operate outdoors, it is right that the State repays with the exemption from its payment. This is a collective effort to get the country back on the move; we are talking about hundreds of thousands of VAT matches and activities to which we have removed an unbearable tax that had to be zeroed throughout 2021 as a decisive element and contribution of alliance, restart and resume activities together. Public soil is also a positive image and a light of our cities, so that citizens' participation in historic centres can be given greater importance. These two measures, which together with the exemption from the payment of the RAI fee are worth EUR 430 million, are shared and - in my opinion - have given dignity to the loyal cooperation between Parliament and the most fragile and weak economic realities involved in a very complex pandemic crisis. It is a first sign - not the last - which however characterized the identity of this conversion. In my opinion, the pandemic crisis has put fundamental issues before us. It becomes even more important to reason on the care of the person and the taking over of a community. For this reason, the second pillar is support for work. The measure contains many important measures to safeguard employment levels by means of social shock absorbers. We have been doing important work for a long time (even during the Count II Government) and we have worked very hard in Parliament in recent months. The second important support is given by the measure to the labour sector. Social shock absorbers are not a form of useless welfare, but they are the precondition to prevent a pandemic crisis from turning into a gigantic social conflict. Reforms will then be necessary and we will have to reform this institution, but the pandemic crisis has shown us that the first objective that the government introduced - that of not leaving people alone - was a fundamental decision to protect the social cohesion of the country and avoid a conflict that could have caused serious damage to the future and the restart of the economy and society. These are the pillars of a country's identity. We will have shown limits and errors, but having immediately decided that attention should be devoted to work and enterprise, precisely in order to avoid a social conflict, it was, in my opinion, a fair choice, because here we are working on the 32 billion permissible deviation (this is the penultimate deviation, because the last vote in this House will be used by the support decree- bis). However, these measures of more than 200 billion lead Italy among the first European countries, together with Germany, to have used fundamental resources for economic competitiveness, as well as for the maintenance of social cohesion. We will have had limits, certainly, because a pandemic crisis introduces unimaginable and unpredictable efforts, but I believe that the path taken has been just, courageous and important and we must look at it with great attention and a great sense of responsibility. The third support concerns health. We have introduced in this decree-law all the necessary resources not only to acquire vaccines, but to give speed to the vaccination plan. Having done so by bringing vaccinations to about 500,000 daily represented and represents the first economic measure to share: this is the crucial issue. Clearly, the decree puts us in a position to have sufficient resources to achieve this great, first and important goal of this Government: speeding up the vaccination plan is the first economic measure to get out of the pandemic crisis. The fourth important support is for local and regional authorities. Colleagues, if we have come so far, without conflict and without conflict between the different levels of government, I believe that much has also depended on the response we have been able to give to the territorial dimensions. The social fragility inhabits the territory: having put at the center important interventions of support to the local authorities and the Regions; having made more flexible the debt of a Region; finally, to have guaranteed to the Municipalities the fundamental conditions with additional resources to cover the lack of revenues of the benefits that in pandemics could not generate revenues, have been, in my opinion, fundamental and decisive choices for the holding of this Country. These four supports to the most important pillars mark a continuity of responses, but also a clear will of the Government to give an important acceleration to the first fundamental economic measure, which is the protection of health and the vaccination plan. We have accomplished the conversion under consideration not only by looking at this decree-law. We have brought the resources available, in the course of conversion, from 550 to 770 million euros, thanks to the collaboration with the Government. It is a right choice, but it also puts us in a position to predetermine a fundamental direction, which we have shared and voted in the Commission, which is to give fundamental elements to direct the next decree. This has a great political value for me, because it is perhaps one of the first times in which there is harmony, synergy and alignment also with respect to how the Government will implement the next decree in the Council of Ministers. We have given a precise address to a number of key issues. I remind you quickly for matters of brevity, but we know that in the next decree-law it is necessary to intervene on the tax credit on rentals, because it is a fundamental void to be filled. We need an urgent measure to give a tax credit on commercial leases, because there is a risk of consuming a real problem. Second fundamental aspect of the next decree: to introduce additional measures for municipalities in support of fragility. In other words, we decided to tell the government that it is necessary to deal immediately with the fragility that dwells in the territory, because the pandemic crisis still leaves in the territory the problems of social fragility. A further fund is needed to add resources to the system of local self-governments to counter fragility. Again, we have introduced a first measure to reduce fixed costs, but there are others, starting with the elimination of Tari for those who of course have been closed and must continue to reduce fixed costs for economic activities. We are talking about basic measures. I think of a real theme: the psychological discomfort that affects our boys. The measures of loneliness that, unfortunately, have closed in the domestic dimension people, beginning with young people, pose real problems about the need for confrontation. Psychological distress among minors is a crucial issue for the future of this country. The government has been told that it needs an extraordinary fund to add resources to the consultors, to expand a right, to counter the psychological discomfort of young people. This will be an issue of the next measure, and it is an important initiative that we have taken and that, together with the other measures, leads to further action in the world of work for so-called seasonal workers, the most fragile. The world of entertainment and culture contemplates areas of precariousness that already existed before the pandemic crisis: having asked the government to use the next measure to resolve these limits is another fundamental element of the conversion under consideration. For this reason, I believe that this is a positive page of the work we have done together. That is why I believe that it is a work which, overall, must be attributed to a great responsibility for the cohesion of the majority which, despite different identities, has taken the most important one, which is the national interest, which I believe represents a positive page of Parliament's work and the role of Parliament also in relation to the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u162	The minority rapporteur, Senator De Carlo, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u163	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u164	Mr President, we have addressed and commented on the decree-law support - the first measure to help companies and the national economy of the new Draghi Government - with the same objectivity and intellectual honesty with which we have approached the measures of the previous Conte Government and voted almost 200 billion detours in one year. These deviations and decrees are part of a dramatic situation, clearly highlighted in the recently arrived Document of Economics and Finance (DEF). The DEF, in fact, shows a downward revision of the growth estimates for the current year compared to last October's budgetary policy paper: from a programmatic growth of 6% to one of 4.5, motivated by the DEF as a result of the recovery of contagions and new restrictions. A situation, therefore, certainly the daughter of the pandemic, but also of a management not attentive to the balance between the health and the economic needs, which has forced in fact many enterprises and many sectors to remain closed without precise scientific evidence that attested the danger. Consequently, it is the State that is trying to remedy this through public intervention, which has proved to be, alas, ineffective. Still with intellectual honesty, in the matter of compensation to companies, or ristori, which I would like to say, we welcomed with satisfaction the extension of the non-refundable contributions to the audience of professionals and the overcoming of the cold logic of the Ateco codes, since they were two changes that Brothers of Italy asked for with a loud voice, repeatedly proposed in our amendments to the provisions of the Count's Government. Still, with the same intellectual lucidity, we cannot fail to reaffirm the inadequacy of the amount of the non-refundable contributions provided for by the decree-law, especially in favour of the productive world: the restors of the previous Conte Government were inadequate and so are those of the current Draghi Government, all the more so considering the continuation of the health emergency that is increasing more and more the difficulties of the productive world. We are talking about contributions that, depending on the volume of business, range from 1.7% to 5% of the total turnover lost in 2020. I think that already says everything and the percentages are commented on themselves, unfortunately. Rather, it is a mockery, not something that can be called a contribution: I don't know how else to define those 2,500 euros for a trader, a craftsman or a restaurateur who in 2020 suffered a loss of 50,000 euros, perhaps halving their turnover compared to the previous year. This is the most favourable case, because, as the volume of business increases, as mentioned above, the share of the contribution decreases compared to the loss suffered. Unfortunately, on the subject we see no substantial differences compared to the decree-laws of the Count Government; we see, indeed, absolute continuity, and to say it are the figures, which show that they are almost identical in the amounts. The figures are also merciless in terms of work. We went down to the square on May 1st, while others listened to concerts or unpropos performances, from authoritative stages. We have come down alongside the workers, because labour data are pitiful, with employment falling by 4.1 percent, compared to February 2020, also considering that there is the blockage of redundancies, and an increase of 5.4 percent of the inactive between fifteen and sixty-four years. It is certainly not good for women, with 402,000 jobs lost between April and September 2020. Youth unemployment is rising sharply, with 159,000 jobs lost for young people between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four. Almost 15% of VAT payments are cancelled and companies closed. It is a matter of pitiful data, but these are not the only ones to be so. It is always the figures that tell us that the refreshments have been and are still derisory. The CGIA of Mestre has estimated, for 2020 only, a loss of total turnover, for the Italian companies, of approximately 423 billion euros. Faced with this, the Conte Government has allocated € 11.3 billion to businesses, as a direct contribution to lost funds, amounting to just 2.7 percent of the lost turnover. The decree-law supports has allocated little more than 11 billion euros: the figure is similar, but the audience is wider, including also professionals and having obviously eliminated the codes Ateco. Adding this measure to the previous ones, we come to restaurants that cover 5.3% of the turnover lost in 2020. President Draghi said that the government moved within the 32 billion euro budget deviation already approved: more could be done for businesses and VAT consignments, but, as always, it is a matter of priorities and choices. It is a political choice and, for this reason, we believe that more should and could be done. We would have expected much more from the decree-law supports. We've been waiting for him since December, we've been waiting for him for Easter, and we'll probably see him fired at Pentecost. In line with what has been said so far, we would have expected a Government to put different maneuvers on the ground, but we are not the only ones, because the decree-law supports was even rejected by the same majority, considering that over 3,000 amendments have been tabled in total, of which less than 15 percent were of Brothers of Italy, the only force to the opposition: the remaining 85 percent were of the majority, which in this way denies the very work of its Government. That is precisely why we expected more, even from the passage in the Commissions, in which we tried to improve the measure, with proposals going in the direction of action to fully support the sectors in crisis and we did so through specific amendments. As we have said in recent months, it was necessary first of all to intervene on fixed costs, which weigh on companies, because the logic of one-off bonuses does not solve the problem of the productive world and business continuity. If he didn't solve it before, he doesn't do it now, after a year of closures and restrictions. For this reason, we have stressed the need to intervene to cover the fixed costs of companies, craftsmen, traders and self-employed workers, such as rents, loans and leases in existence, utilities, taxes and taxes, insurance premiums, contributions, when independent of turnover, as in the special management of craftsmen and traders. Instead the decree-law provides little or nothing in this sense. A few small steps have been taken with some interventions approved in the Commissions, which have provided for, for example, the total exemption from the payment of the RAI fee for accommodation facilities and administration rooms or even the extension from 30 June to 30 December of the exemption of the public land occupation tax. The same applies to the exemption from payment of the first IMU instalment for companies that have suffered a decrease in turnover of at least 30% in 2020. However, these measures are very limited in scope and, indeed, are insufficient, even more so given that in 2020 the 60% tax credit on rents for buildings used in the business ended in almost all sectors. For the other sectors, it ended on 31 December 2020, after benefiting from it for the months March to June and from October to December. In this regard, Brothers from Italy presented two amending proposals to the Decree-Law, which have been transformed, during the course of the procedure in the Commission, into agendas, which commit the Government to assess the desirability of providing compensations commensurate with fixed costs and the extension of the tax credits on rentals. Again in the matter of rentals, we welcome the fact that in an amendment to the decree-law the non-taxability of rents not received by the owner of the rented property, as proposed for a long time by the Brothers of Italy, also in relation to the decree-law supports. Positive is the novelty that concerns professionals. Thanks to an amendment tabled by Brothers of Italy, the measure was approved that recognises the principle of deferment for Covid disease of the terms relating to the obligations that professionals must respect to the protection of the latter and their customers. Now, however, with the help of all, it is necessary to approve the bill of Brothers of Italy in order to extend the rights also to those categories that have so far borne the cost of their diseases. It is necessary to extend the application of the optional schemes of the dry coupon and the rent agreed also for non-housing properties, providing for the possibility of opting by the owner for the same taxation as for rents deriving from residential properties. This too is a proposal by Brothers of Italy. We have proposed to raise to 100% the amount of ristori expected for businesses and VAT consignments with turnover up to EUR 400,000. Currently, 60% of the monthly loss amounts to up to EUR 100,000 and 50% for the range between EUR 100,000 and EUR 400,000, always with reference to the monthly loss. We believe it is necessary to protect the sectors of strategic importance from hostile climbs by foreign companies that could take advantage of the weakness of the financial, economic and social fabric of the country as a result of the new pandemic wave. In the light of the recent Iveco case, we have proposed to extend the use of the golden power instrument to the automotive sector. At the same time, we have proposed to extend the exercise of special powers to 31 December 2021 in all policy areas and, in particular, financial, banking and insurance, agri-food and steel. In this regard, the internal short circuit of the majority in relation to article 37, whose aim is to intervene to support with a bridge finance also the companies in extraordinary administration and to which, in reality, the time of approval of the decree-law in fact prevent to have liquidity in short time. I have an example that I know of: Acc di Trichiana, a company in my territory, pays for its lack of liquidity. It is a diatribe entirely internal to the majority between those who recognize the project as strategic, and therefore deserving of public intervention, and those who believe that to intervene should be the private ones. Too bad it's the employees who've been inundated for months with unfulfilled promises. This is the only gap we've seen in the field between the previous government and this, but worse. We have asked for companies that have suffered a decrease in turnover in 2020 that the variable will increase from 25% to 33% depending on the volume of business. On the school, in keeping with our political line and in order to demonstrate that it is a constructive and super-propositional opposition, not only - as we read today by some agencies - one that just shouts, we have proposed solutions for extraordinary mobility for the elimination of the five-year constraint, the competition reserved only for the directors of general administrative services, the increase of the rate for interprovincial mobility, the extraordinary mobility for school leaders. For our part, there are facts and not words in favor of school staff (precari, school leaders and ATA staff). We have supported many amendments by the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) and the Union of Provinces of Italy (UPI). One was approved concerning the adjustment of the provision of the Fund for doubtful claims due. These amending proposals were aimed at giving financial and economic breath to local authorities, which - I say as mayor - are the institutions of proximity to the citizens and which are at the forefront in combating the emergency Covid. We had pointed out first that the municipalities were unable to approve the budgets by 30 March and with an amendment we had already proposed that the deadline be extended to 31 March. Mr President, I would like to mention what perhaps has put the majority in crisis, namely Article 4, which we call a half-break, which is neither meat nor fish and which is of little use, except to the needs of the administration to lower the tax warehouse. Citizens and businesses do not need much, because it is limited to 5,000 euros and those with an income of up to 30,000 euros gross per year. This is an unnecessary and unjust measure, because it is aimed at a very limited part of the population and could benefit the bad payers who are so by negligence and not by mistake. We had proposed suspension of folders and increased installment, thus giving answers not only to someone. Mr President, there is also the very important issue of the reporting of regional expenditure. It is an amendment by Brothers of Italy. At a time of difficulty, the health needs related to the Covid emergency cannot be perimeterd in normative cages, as carried out by the old decrees. It takes flexibility. It is necessary to grant to the Regions that the returns are considered as a single financing and the various resources allocated by the four decrees, regardless of the financial limits that the various paragraphs of the individual articles provide for for each line of activity. An emergency is faced with emergent instruments, not ordinary ones. To conclude, Mr President, the summary is that of an insufficient and ineffective measure which, in the full tradition of the Count II Government, refers to a subsequent measure: everything changes, because nothing changes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u165	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u166	Mr President, government gentlemen, fellow senators and senators, the measure we are about to vote on today is only a small piece within a broader framework of aid and support that, for a year now, Parliament and Government have been putting in place to try to provide concrete support in the face of the crisis that the country has been going through for too long. We are all aware that these are not definitive or decisive solutions, especially for the many economic operators who have had to reduce, in a sometimes drastic way, their activity and who, precisely because of this crisis, have been forced to very difficult choices and, even, to close their activities. There is still a lot to do and that is why the Government has been working for weeks to launch the next decree of support, which will be approved in days and on which we will all work, to improve it. Today, however, we are called to debate and vote on a measure which is an important step. The work done by Parliament has been very significant and has also gone in the right direction. Many amendments have been adopted in the Commission and for this, of course, we must thank its members who have worked very well and have tried to gather the demands of all categories, or almost because someone has definitely stayed out. In this respect, I cannot help but think about the increase in the fund to be allocated to passenger transport undertakings operating in the non-scheduled public transport sector, which had been excluded from the previous measures; or, again, the exemption of the first IMU instalment for those engaged in business activities, mentioned by the rapporteur just now; or, I am thinking of those companies producing agricultural income. Still, there is an important contribution to the Children's Hospital Jesus in order to recognize the increased operating costs incurred for the management of the emergency Covid-19, as well as those resulting from the increase in high complexity performance precisely as a result of the pandemic. Some amendments insist on the need that is probably the most felt one at the moment, namely to speed up vaccines. We in Italy Viva, from this point of view, were the first to support the need for an acceleration of the vaccination campaign and, in this sense, we can only thank President Draghi, who has committed himself and continues to engage in an absolutely effective way on this issue. Allow me also to thank the General Son who, until today, has met in a very precise manner all the commitments he had made and also the programs that he had given himself and that he is continuing to give himself. We're sure the results won't be long before they see each other. With this in mind, the amendment proposed by Italia Viva also introduces the possibility for hotels, which have suffered a great deal from the crisis, to become vaccine hubs at the disposal of the Italian health system, to speed up the times as much as possible and facilitate the access of all those who still have to be vaccinated. Thanks to the commitment of Italy Viva is approved also an important amendment, that it supplies a concrete aid in order to contrast the crisis in existence in the section of the marine transport and, in particular, in the field of the handling of the container and in the activity of transhipment goods. The amendment also bears my signature: I strongly wanted it, also because it was urged by my co-regionals and colleagues in the House of Deputies, convinced that it is necessary and no longer procrastinable to intervene, giving a real and effective help to the harbour operators strongly affected by the epidemiological emergency. I have to say it was a team effort. There was Senator Emilio Floris' amendment and Senator Emiliano Fenu's amendment, similar. It was therefore a work done in synergy and the result arrived. The amendment recognizes an allowance to workers made redundant in ports for which a significant decrease in rolling stock and passenger traffic has been achieved and at the same time there remain states of company crisis or cessations of terminal activities of the harbour enterprises. Our will is therefore to strongly support the occupation at the same time to avoid serious prejudices to the operativity and the efficiency port. We must bear in mind that the maritime transport sector is absolutely vital for many regions and in the first place for my belonging, Sardinia. With this measure, therefore, we finally deal with a sector that up to this moment seemed little considered, but that must return to being central also and especially for the workers employed in the ports that have lived and are experiencing in first person a crisis due, precisely, to the pandemic emergency. However, I hope - and I would like to say this - that this is only the first signal for Sardinia in the matter of maritime transport; I hope that there will be a greater attention than that manifested up to now towards this sector, which objectively has been totally ignored by the Governments that have preceded the current one and that, among other things, they had interrupted the masterly work done by President Gentiloni, who unfortunately, for the end of the legislature, has not been able to bring it to an end. I hope, for example, that we can resume from there and finally resolve once and for all the problem of territorial continuity; I also hope that we will be able to bring it into being also for these synergy matters that we have implemented for this measure. I would like to reassure my colleagues who have also complained about this measure, saying that we are aware that the work to be done is still so much, especially for a country that is still in the midst of a pandemic crisis today. However, the text under discussion is certainly a turning point and, as I said, will shortly be followed by a second support decree. With it we have achieved some important goals to give real and concrete support to all those who, in various ways and in various ways, have been affected by this crisis, also giving a signal of hope to all those sectors that still need to be involved and to whom we will of course ensure our full commitment to make sure that we have not forgotten them. Instead we will try to make our presence felt and to restart Italy, which really needs this. We are certain, however, that with the guidance we have to the Government we will be able to bring them home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u167	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u168	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the assessment of the impproposability of Amendment 30.0.66 (text 2) for two reasons: extraneousness to the matter and the competence of Commissions 5a and 6a. As for the extraneousness of the matter, the decree-law contains provisions aimed at addressing the economic crisis generated by the pandemic. These are measures to support businesses and workers; moreover, more specifically, there is no intervention under the environmental regime. The amendment adopted in the Commission amends the environmental code to remove the beached posidonia from the waste regulation, so that it can be considered a resource. Clearly, then, there is extraneousness. I would add that the decree-law has as its basis an emerging situation, which does not exist with regard to amendment 39.0.66 (text 2), which I believe should be declared inadmissible, under penalty of the violation of Article 77 of the Constitution, therefore the approval of an unconstitutional measure, with consequent justified risk of appeal before the Constitutional Court. As regards the extraneous nature of the amendment to the competence of the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a, I would remind you that in 13a The Commission is in the process of examining the Act of the Senate 1571, the so-called salvamare law, whose Article 5 deals precisely with this matter. For these reasons, I would ask that Amendment 39.0.66 (text 2) be declared inadmissible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u169	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take very little time from your attention, partly because I run the risk of appearing repetitive. When we talk about the lack of attention to sport, unfortunately we must always repeat the same things, but it doesn't matter, because this matter deserves the respect it owes. It is a sector in crisis - we have said it several times - and perhaps more than so many others have not been cared for as it should have. Also the decree-law supports represents yet another missed opportunity, as was the PNRR, also because what has been addressed in the field of sport in this measure can undoubtedly be defined minimal. It is true that there is a reference to the world of sports work within it, and we are, of course, grateful for this; therefore, there is a focus on the sports workers sector. This is a difficult area to assert from the point of view of the legal situation, but nevertheless it has received recognition from the State, and we can of course only welcome this. More and more it is being affirmed, in all the measures that we have examined during this pandemic year (and were not less the PNRR and the decree-law supports), a dangerous tendency: to support certainly an important part of the supply chain, that of the workers, but forgetting that of the employers, the so-called companies and the enterprises that are part of this important sector. The architrave, that is the sports associations, is spoken in all sauces, but it never finds a practical and concrete application. The line that is increasingly repeated in these contexts is that we will have workers, but we will get to the point that there will be no more employers. It is an important statement, which I would venture to call dramatic and which clashes with what is happening within the world of sport. We have tried to correct this in an amending way; we have tried it in every way. All we have to do is clearly, decisively and above all proudly denounce the fact that we have tried to correct this approach, but we have been told no. Then it is right that the world of sport should know what has been said no. In the decree-law supports the only reference to the world of sport - I have already said - is that of workers, but as regards other contributory aspects we have seen an indirect call to this world: there have been in fact measures concerning holders of VAT numbers and, in this case, all companies that deal with sports activities or the management of sports facilities have been brought back to the world of small and medium-sized enterprises. So there was a totally indirect call. There is, however, a great difficulty that has arisen in the measure: the audience of possible beneficiaries has been limited, because among the requirements necessary to have a facilitation there was the possession of the VAT number. Well, 90% of sports associations are not able to have this requirement, and that excluded them. In addition, the remaining 10% was further penalised, because institutional revenues, i.e. registration fees, were excluded, and the concessionary measure was brought back exclusively to commercial activities. This is the case with regard to the aspects related to facilitations and refreshments. However, our minority rapporteur, Senator De Carlo, mentioned the issue of fixed costs: there was absolutely no talk of how to correct them, there was no mention of moratories for mortgages and leasing, nor of fees, the removal of charges and, above all, of the blocking of utilities. We absolutely must do something in this direction, so that societies can have important answers. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by making two final points. We are responsible opposition and, when we talk about responsibility, we also know what good was done within a measure, not so much in the first draft but in the amending phase. In this context, we considered it appropriate to subscribe to two amendments by the majority, one by the centre-right, which deferred the entry into force of the decree on sports work in December 2023, and another important one, at the first signature of Senator Errani, which limited the effects of the concession of vouchers. This is an important measure; I would think - quoting a sentence from Senator Agnelli - that only the left can do right things. [[Applause]] In the specific case, the left has remembered the employers, trying to find that balance within the decree between work and company, between work and enterprise. Well, they are attitudes of responsible opposition, which will continue to signal to this Government, in terms of vigilance, what must be done, without neglecting the possibility of converging on what is right and on what... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u171	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to focus on the meaning of these measures, which are also an evolution compared to the Ristoratory Decrees one, two, three and four, and which try to answer a question raised in the country by the economic victims of the pandemic, that is, those who are already swallowed up in the quicksand of poverty. I would like to try to make this argument, also because I think that my party, the Democratic Party, must first of all be the one of the unprotected in our society. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has greatly tightened the contrast in our country between sectors and non-touched classes, only touched or even benefited by the pandemic and those who have instead been overwhelmed. Only in 2020 there were about 300,000 businesses in the trade less, 240,000 of which disappeared exclusively because of the pandemic. The sectors most affected must be highlighted, because it is not that the pandemic has affected everyone indiscriminately: tourism, leisure, entertainment, culture, catering, goldsmithery, legal game and others. These are categories of citizens and workers; I am thinking of women whose employment has collapsed with the pandemic, poor families with children, young workers and immigrants. In the face of all this, the Joint Finance and Budget Commissions have rendered a good service to the country, with the decisive contribution of the Democratic Party. The amendments adopted to the support decree represent an important step towards the small enterprises most penalized by the closures and a reason for satisfaction for our entire political group. For all this, stressing the work carried out, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, Senator Toffanin and Senator Manca, Presidents Pesco and D'Alfonso, all the members of the majority, the careful and constant willingness of the Government and the non-preliminary position of the opposition. I repeat the measures mentioned by my colleague Daniele Manca: the total exemption from payment of the first instalment of the IMU, the public land occupation tax, the Irpef on unpaid rents and the RAI fee, the extension of the single treasury levy (Preu), and the start of the discussion on the extension of concessions for the legal game sector are a first response from the State to the crisis of small and medium-sized enterprises. (17.35) (Pittella followed). A response that reduces the fixed costs of closed and loss-making activities, behind which there are people in the flesh, entrepreneurs, workers and families. A comprehensive package, linked to what will come in the coming weeks, to the support-a decree, which will intervene in an even more focused way on the subject of the enterprise; which also relates to the vaccination plan, which is moving forward in a speedy manner, and to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has just been sent to Brussels. All this must make us look more confidently to the future, without easy optimism, but with measured and determined positivity. Paraphrasing Churchill, I confess that we are moving towards better days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u173	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the conversion into law of the Decree-Law of 22 March 2021, No 41, to the attention of the Senate today, represents an opportunity to reaffirm the need to make concrete and quick choices in the interest of the country, which has suffered further slowdowns in terms of growth and employment due to the pandemic. It has been very difficult months for VAT consignments and, in particular, for small businesses involved in tourism, catering and commerce. The measures of lockdown imposed by the government to contain the contagion from Covid-19 have brought to their knees many small companies, some of which have failed to bear the load without revenue and have thrown the sponge and lowered the shutters permanently. The decline in household consumption, the integration fund, the smart working have deeply affected the turnover of small businesses, which have collapsed. That is why I welcome the inclusion of corrective measures: the cancellation of the first IMU instalment for activities that have decreased in turnover by at least 30% compared to the previous year and the establishment of a fund to restore the municipalities for lost revenue, which is very, very fair to ensure essential services to citizens. It was also wise to postpone the payment of IRAP by companies until 30 September and the public land occupation tax, until 31 December 2021, for public establishments such as bars and restaurants, was also zeroed. It is clearly a breath of oxygen, not the definitive solution to the problem, for the companies involved in the administration of food and drink that in recent months have been forced to work only with the take away (and for many it was not even possible). In this regard, I appeal to the Government to review the closing hours of restaurants and bars, at least until 11:00 p.m., just to give time to the adventurers to eat a dinner in peace and to give serenity to the work of cooks, waiters and bartenders. I hope that we can also eat meals in the rooms soon, respecting distances and prevention measures. This is what catering workers are asking for. In the same way, I hope that we can review the measures to give the whole wedding sector the chance to share; it is an important sector, with it the florists, the companies that take care of the reception clothes, the photographers and all the companies of Renting. In addition to the measures adopted, I note with great satisfaction the adoption of two amendments that increase the fund provided for by the decree-law to support the sector of artistic and traditional ceramics, making available a large amount, equal to 4 million euros, that can be used by the sector. I would like to thank Senator Manca and Senator Toffanin for their work in the Commission and the Commission as a whole, Senators Lanza and Collina, who are the first signatories to two important amendments, one of which also bears my signature, and all the members of the parliamentary intergroup for the cities of artistic and traditional ceramics, of which I am pleased to be a member. The creation of the intergroup, in fact, was particularly important; we will continue to work in synergy and I am sure that we will be able to carry out significant projects to support the world of ceramics and support a fundamental sector for many Italian regions, including my Campania, and for the art city of Cerreto Sannita in the province of Benevento. The ceramic workshops were completely closed during the lockdown, they could not work; they needed, therefore, to have attention. I just hope that these funds will support the primary activity of ceramists and that they will not only be refreshing, but offering work with real clients that give dignity to a sector that boasts of Made in Italy. I also hope that it will not only be promoted, because in this way the artisans would obviously not be the protagonists, but we can also do training; students could go to shops, for example, as extracurricular activities to learn this wonderful art directly to the lathes, manipulating clay. In this way two goals would be achieved: gain for ceramists and training for students. There are companies and workers who have remained outside the decree-law, who also deserved to be supported. I want to call the firemen, the lighting installers, the carousels, the music bands, the circuses and the carnivals. These categories of enterprises and workers have been completely abandoned and support must be provided for them, as the start of work for them is a long time due to the prohibition of assembly. President, years of investment and sacrifices on professionalism and equipment cannot be cleared, also because they allow to renew the folk and religious traditions in many Italian communities. I ask the government to support these sectors brought to their knees by the pandemic, including them in the next decree- bis-supports. Just as it would be good and fair to pay attention to equal schools, with the support of freedom of educational choice; I have tabled on the point of amendments that have not been accepted. In conclusion, it seems to us that the Government and Parliament are becoming aware of the problems of the country and that the law that we are about to issue gives concrete signals to VAT matches. For these reasons, I am in favour of it, although there is still a great deal to be done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us provides for a budgetary deviation of 32 billion, which brings the deviation for the year 2020, voted by Parliament, to 156 billion. The measure includes measures to support business and labour, to combat poverty, to promote health and safety, and to support local authorities. Could it have been better? It certainly could have been done better. Could more be done? It's a little hard to say if you could do more. Let us bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that our public debt has broken down 2.650 billion. We are committed to the future no longer of our children, but also of our grandchildren. We are playing on the good spending of the recovery fund, on the inventiveness of Italians and on the vaccination campaign so that it can resume the journey and allow the rebirth of our country and our economy. Many amendments have been tabled. I must say that the work of the rapporteurs was impressive and supported by the capacity, commitment and constancy of the offices. I believe that the government has shown sensitivity to these problems and I think there is no difference between right, left and centre; when we talk about living needs, about people who work or do not work anymore and who want to work, we have to be, we have been and we will always be together. There was a commitment on the part of the Government to accept agendas that will represent the supporting structure of the next decree-law support. We're firing the first one, and we're already thinking about the second one. This gives the idea of how pressing the request for action is. We are thinking, in the next measure, of measures for tax credit on commercial contracts, of resources for local authorities, which are the frontier of citizens' needs, of support for so-called invisible workers, precarious workers, entertainment workers, culture, seasonal workers. There's still a lot to work with. Allow me, however, to use the time available to me to put Parliament and the representatives of the Government a problem that needs to be addressed and resolved. The problem is as follows: what must be the relationship between politics, understood as Parliament and Executive, and the ministerial bureaucracy, that is to say with those offices of direct competence of the Ministry that I will call bureaucracy even if this denomination also includes figures of magistrates. What should be the task of ministerial and political bureaucracy? I believe that the task of bureaucracy must be to assess technically the sustainability of a measure, especially when it comes to measures which are not the responsibility of a certain Minister, but on which that Minister must express an opinion. But that is where the task of bureaucracy ends: the choice must be made by politics, by Parliament, by the Commission, there cannot be an invasion of the field. The bureaucrat can go so far as to say technically that a rule is sustainable, never controversial from the political point of view, putting the burden of decision back on politics. Since I like to give concrete examples, we will immediately arrive at the conquibus. This decree-law, in Article 4 (3) speaks of the suspension of the checks referred to in Article 48-a of the decree of the President of the Republic, September 29, 1973, n. 602. In essence, it is said that for this period, since the beginning of the pandemic, companies that have a debt to the treasury are not only suspended the recovery procedure, but even, in violation of this rule and pursuant to Article 153 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2020, are entitled to be able to collect their claims. Not only is the recovery procedure suspended, but under Article 153 of the aforementioned decree-law they can receive the claims, while the ordinary legislation provides that the public administration before granting must verify whether the company is liable. If that is the case, it is not clear why an amendment was rejected which provided in essence that the same favour, by virtue of an epidemiological situation that created so many problems, could be applied to those undertakings that took part in tenders having a debt, perhaps even unknowingly, with the Treasury, but that they paid it before the award. I do not see what the problem is to accept this amendment which has been pointed out by my Group, has received the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission, has obtained the favourable opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Production, but has had a negative opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure which in this measure and in this amendment has to do with the cabbage at snack. I must thank Deputy Minister Castelli for his patience, for which I believe I did not abuse him, because she was convinced that there was something that did not work. The first opinion of this Ministry was that the effort, the attempt to do this amendment, was welcome, but it expressed an unfavourable opinion because it violated the principle of subsidiarity. Clearly, we produced, again thanks to the availability of the Deputy Minister, the documentation that showed exactly the opposite, asking for a revisit of that opinion. Well, the second opinion was worse than the first one, so there was a shrewd defense of a rule that did not belong to the office of direct cooperation of the Minister, because changing the rules or deciding whether the rules are to be done or changed is the task of the legislator and not of the bureaucrat who collaborates with this or with that Minister. [[Applause]] I believe that there is a need to return to the primacy of politics, I say this in the interests of Parliament and I say this also in the interests of the Commission. The Commission and Parliament cannot be strolled by ministerial bureaucrats, but they must take responsibility for deciding and bureaucrats must stop a moment before decision-making. Personally, I believe in the primacy of politics and I also believe in willingness; I felt embarrassed when I spoke with Minister D'Incà, whom I thank, always courteous and always friendly. He said: I am the Minister for relations with Parliament and I cannot help but support the opinion of another Ministry, even if I do not want to go into the matter. There is probably no time to make up for this mistake, because the government is preparing to table the maxi amendment tomorrow. I hope, however, that in the text of the next decree support there will be a re-evaluation of the issue. I therefore turn the documentation back to Deputy Minister Castelli and the Subsecretary for relations with Parliament, so that they can take charge of it. I repeat that my hope is that in the next decree support will be done justice of this injustice perpetrated inappropriately for bureaucratic and not political responsibilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u176	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u177	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion of the Decree-Law on Support, which is worth the famous EUR 32 billion, will have to contribute to the support of Italian companies and families and certainly deserves the attention of this Parliament, the Government and all those involved in implementing measures. With regard to measures, I would first of all like to refer to an important amendment, which our Group strongly wishes, to Article 1-a of the measure, concerning the transfer of tax credit, which represents a turning point in the use of resources for technological innovation and transition 4.0. The initial text is that of amendment 5.15. Tax recipients are expected to be able to renounce direct use and opt for partial transfer to other entities, including credit institutions and financial intermediaries, even with the possibility of subsequent disposals. It is a virtuous system that will encourage the use of the instrument by hundreds of thousands of companies who asked for it and expected it. Tax credits have proved to be a fundamental instrument, as has been said in this Parliament several times, and are also referred to in other important measures. They are, in fact, a reduction in taxation for those investing in innovation, green economy, machinery 4.0 and technologies. It includes a variety of production sectors, including the agricultural sector. [[Applause]] Agriculture 4.0 is in fact a novelty of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and innovation will be a fundamental part. Of course, reference is made to the measure of the Revenue Agency for implementing provisions. Another positive aspect in the field of agriculture is the amendment on access to the thermal account (non-trivial, but very important), which allows the use of the incentives provided by the GSE for actions concerning the increase of energy efficiency and the production of thermal energy from renewable sources. The production of vertical farming has been extended and provision has been made for fourth-range products. The measure is important because it goes in the direction of the development of a new sector that is very innovative and that today is growing a lot. In addition, the possibility of marketing products placed on the market or labelled until 1 January 2022, even if they do not meet the labelling requirements, has been approved until stocks are exhausted. This partly exceeds previous wills. However, further action will be needed to resolve the many open questions relating to the packaging of many products (from wine, oil, preserves). The adoption of the amendment is a positive element in this period of great difficulty for companies. There is satisfaction throughout the sector also with the amendment which provides that in order to access the exemptions, under Article 222 of the so-called relaunch decree, the beneficiaries of the application declare that they have not exceeded the individual limits set by the temporary framework for State aid measures. This is also an important measure, because it meets the need for simplification expressed loudly by agricultural enterprises. Many other amendments have been positive. In addition to the lights that will light this measure on Italians, there are still shadows, Mr President, which will have to be fully clarified in the next measure. They are shadows that partially obscure the faces of hundreds of thousands of agricultural workers today, which, with our amendments, we could have protected, naturally illuminating their faces immediately. On 1 May the media gave too much weight to the controversy and too little, on the other hand, to the workers, especially those who are now unemployed, those who are in the Social Security Fund and those who have an income close to the poverty line. [[Applause]] We have proposed an important amendment: the allowance for agricultural seasonal workers, which was intended to eliminate unequal treatment for seasonal workers themselves, both in agriculture and in fisheries. These were in fact excluded from the payment of the allowance, provided for in Article 10 of the Decree-Law for all other categories, to which it was then reconfirmed, as to seasonal workers belonging to sectors other than tourism and occasional workers. We wanted an amendment to remedy this disparity. We have not succeeded, but we hope to do so shortly. There is also support for workers in the processing, handling and marketing of agricultural and zootechnical products: our proposal was intended to fill an important gap, because in the end, with the use of the new employment insurance, it could not be done. The same applies to women's agricultural entrepreneurship. We have said it several times: it is necessary to be able to give the more than 200,000 agricultural companies present in our country an economic support and satisfaction, with a system of investments that can be supported by the Government through Ismea. Mr President, from this House today a clear message must be sent to the Government and to the whole country, a message of return to life. We must reopen, eliminate curfew and give hundreds of thousands of businesses the opportunity to work, to work hard, but also to arrive in the evening to be satisfied and proud of their business. The vaccination plan seems to work; let's continue on this road. Always the Italians first. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u178	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u179	Mr President, last Saturday was a different working party for the second consecutive year. We would never have imagined in the past that we would have to think about the world of work and enterprise as we have been doing in these months, in fact for over a year. The decree supports to our examination must be understood not only as a necessary support to all companies, enterprises or free professionals, but as the umpteenth, valid push for the survival of the entire Italian productive and working fabric. As I have already pointed out in my previous speeches in this House, today's measure is the natural continuation of the good work begun with the Count II Government. Initially there was a liquidity decree to give support to all Italian companies; shortly before there was the so-called Italian decree cure and immediately after the decree I raise to support all Italian workers blocked by the pandemic crisis with no-failure restors. After the summer of last year came the August decree, followed by four decrees restori, then merged into a single text. We did not leave our citizens alone and we will never leave them alone, even more so now. There are two requests that come to us every day: reopening and support. The first ones are coming, albeit with the necessary caution, because no one has any interest in making more complicated the existence of those who are in difficulty and certain exploitations in order to intest to themselves things already established by all indignant me. Aid continues to work day by day to ensure adequate support for all. As you can see, this decree-law - to which a second text of economic support will follow - is a necessary norm for the very survival of our economic fabric. History is the only measure of comparison to which we can refer to to evaluate the actions we are doing. We have been going through the most serious economic crisis since the post-war period. Then it was U.S. aid with the Marshall Plan that allowed the robotic restart of our economy; the difference compared to then is that the antibodies to counter an economic crisis we built them at home. The establishment of a strong and united European Union has enabled us to structure mechanisms that will enable us to get out of this crisis with our own strength. If we join the economic efforts made in recent months with different budgetary deviations to the huge funds that will come from Europe with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, then we can look more confidently to the years to come. In fact, I want to be even more clear: we have to look with confidence at the coming months. There are entire production sectors that demand certainty. Colleagues, I have often spent my time in bringing to Parliament the demands of the trade fair sector, and I would like to do so today, but I would warn you that if we waste time, if we remain indecision, we will lose market shares in favour of foreign markets that are already reorganizing. We have already wasted time on an absurd government crisis that still shouts revenge; we do not add harm to it. I am happy that in autumn there will be great international trade fairs that have always been held in Italy. In September the Milan Furniture Fair and the Cersaie in Bologna will reopen: an appointment, that of the ceramics sector, which I know very closely and which has always been nodal for the internationalization of our companies. The ceramic sector is experiencing a very delicate moment, with production costs rising year after year due to the increase in the cost of raw materials and pallets, which are likely to undermine the recovery. It has not helped the total blockage for over a year of our own and international fairs. For sectors such as ceramics and exports, 80% of turnover is worth. Only by giving certainty about the future will we be able to defend this global leadership of ours. Personally I have tabled several amendments to this text to support the sector; I am pleased that at least one has passed, also tabled by my colleague Collina, along with my colleagues Croatti, Castaldi, Trentacoste, Briziarelli, Modena, Angrisani, Marinello, Parrini, Agussori, Lonardo, and also supported by my colleague Cassese della Camera, to support a niche, small but important: that of artistic ceramics. The amendment increases by 2 million euros the fund provided by the decree-law relaunch to support the sector of traditional artistic ceramics making available 4 million euros that can be used by the sector in 2021. In a country like ours, with an artisan tradition strongly rooted in the territories and an important artistic vocation, this is really good news. For the trade fair sector I had also presented two other proposals that met two different needs: two issues on which I want to ask urgent answers from the Ministry of Economic Development. The first concerns the workers of the trade show, who have been without salary and work for months. I remember that seters, safety section, carpentry - just to name a few - employ staff with contracts of various types often to direct call only for events. The second necessity to be valued is the attraction of foreign visitors interested in participating in trade fairs in our territory. As already pointed out, it is from abroad that this sector finds much of its livelihood. As Movimento 5 Stars we have always supported the internationalization of our companies. Minister Di Maio I have always invested in this; I hope that the Government will continue on this path. I would also like to mention another amending proposal approved to this text, a rule to enhance the environment and reduce economic speculation on it. This is an amendment that excludes from the incentives for the production of electricity from renewable sources all plants for the production of electricity, fed to biogas and biomass, as well as plants for the production of methane that are in breach of European regulations or that make supply of raw materials in territories other than the country. Colleagues, I should like to conclude by wishing to see the broadest convergence in this House as regards the adoption of the text in our examination. Last week we fired yet another budget deviation: No one can escape from turning that deviation into rapid and concrete aid. Our only objective must be to give concrete answers to Italians, workers and businesses. We must strengthen the foundations of our production system. Today we are called to govern and overcome this crisis, with a long-term vision: wasting time would be unforgivable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u180	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u181	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, to see the total sum of the deviations made, the wrists really tremble, because EUR 156 billion is an enormity, which I do not think has equal in the post-war period. As Mr Missa pointed out earlier, there are only deviations. We did a series of financial maneuvers, one after the other. Frankly, we have always been very concerned, rather than the deviation, about where these resources would be allocated. As everyone will remember, we have not always expressed such an enthusiastic opinion about the work of the previous government and not even the work of the previous government, yet we were not pandemic. We confirm this concern, because it is clear that things are slowly changing, but we did not like the method by which a whole series of issues have been addressed in the recent past, the most important of which is the relationship between the working world, the business world, and the state. We did not appreciate it because, if we go to see exclusively what has arrived in the pockets of entrepreneurs throughout this difficult year, which is behind us - I will then speak more in depth than what we have before us, as far as the future is concerned - in front of losses of hundreds of thousands or millions of euros of turnover, in the pockets of entrepreneurs have arrived a few tens of thousands of euros, which in fact have not solved the issue. In the same way, the liquidity decree, about which some colleagues spoke earlier, did not resolve the issue. It is difficult to think of being able to resolve the issue with the guarantee of a subject like Sace SpA, up to a maximum of 25,000 euros. What happens above 25,000 euros? The guarantees had to be and are still the sole responsibility of the companies. So what Senator Vitali said just now comes into play here. Let's try to understand ourselves: we must decide to support all the companies, certainly not those decoctions, as President Draghi reminds us sometimes, but those that have had, in the recent past, the problems of all the Italian companies, the difficulties with the treasury, sometimes the impossibility to pay everything there was to pay, because at some point they found themselves in the need to choose between paying salaries to their employees or paying taxes. This is a feature of our businesses. Entrepreneurs went to the bank to make debts to possibly pay taxes or what they could pay because, otherwise, they wouldn't have made it. We have not responded to this, but we are working to improve things. We're here on purpose. Forza Italia has lost its voice by supporting the productive world. When for two and a half years we talked about development, enterprise and work, we were looked at as extraterrestrials. Today I have heard in the various speeches that businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises must be the first. It's wonderful; we're excited about it. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Toffanin and Mr Missa, whom I mentioned earlier, for the work they have done with a huge difficulty, as well as our members of the Budget Commission, one for all the Damiani Group leader. Every time we find ourselves in the Commission explaining how important it is to support one of the key sectors of the national economy such as tourism, for example. We had to kill ourselves to do a battle, for example, on the tourist buses for 20 million euros, when we threw hundreds of millions from other parts, where perhaps they served less than in this case. We've had to explain for weeks that companies like tourism haven't worked in 14 months. We had to explain that the buses are stopped in the squares and cost. We had to explain that the additional school services for transport were insufficient in numerical and economic terms and, therefore, had to be supported. We had to fight to explain how much the accommodation facilities that were closed would have to have facilities. We have reached results: we have reached the exemption of the occupation fee for public spaces and areas (COSAP) and the occupation fee for public spaces and areas (TOSAP); we have reached the exemption of the first installment of the IMU. We have not talked about the waste tax (Tari), but there is always a tomorrow, Mr Missa. It bears witness to the good work done, but it is good that those who are outside this Chamber understand that all these colleagues every day have stood around a table to explain - I am referring to what Vitali said - to some state officials, who I invite next time to run, if they want to decide the future of the Italians and not to be entrenched behind the desk of the State Accounting to say that you cannot, that you have to look at the world that works, produces and pays their salary. [[Applause]] That is the basic concept. We've got it all the way to our hair. The State and the officials do their job; we take care of politics, which we answer directly to the Italians, who do not make discounts and do well. When they protest, they have every right to do so. Is it possible that a senator of the Republic should argue with a state official about a political and not a technical position? It doesn't make sense; it's not good and you don't have to do that. We fought for the mountain. As I say, we have waged a war between the poor: the North against the Centre and against the South. We brought home a good result, but let's not kill each other. We try to recognize that the Tuscan mountain is worth as much as the Emilian one, of Trentino-Alto Adige, Lucana or Abruzzo. The work is sufficient and has a positive outlook. The next decree will certainly remedy these shortcomings, but let us not forget the central role that politics must play in relation to the bureaucracy system. We have the right to decide, the others have the duty to carry out. If we lose sight of this passage, then it means that it is pointless to stay here in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u182	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u183	Mr President, we have heard from the rapporteurs everything good has been done in these days, in Parliament and in Parliament. Well, that's already a difference from what happened with the previous government. You see, Mr President, President Draghi reminded us that the Government is the Italian Government. Well, we have shown in these days that Parliament is also the Parliament of the Italians. [[Applause]] We were able to work together and we saw the difference. It was also seen this morning, when a decree-law was converted and not yet another DPCM. It is something worth more than the sum of the first 32 billion to which the measures contained in the first of the supporting decrees add. I say the first 32 billion because there will be another 40. The total sum is 72 billion, thought of in an overall logic, thought organically. This is a fundamental step. That is what, as a League, we have also committed ourselves to doing in the measures and that is what we are doing. Already the passage of the name, from decree ristori to decree supports, says a lot about what the transition of approach is, that the country asks us and that we are implementing. When Matteo Salvini announced his support for the government, he did so with two firm and clear points: the change of perspective and the change of pace. The change of pace was about the vaccine plan. When the bell passed between Count and Draghi on February 13, 52,000 Italians were vaccinated. Today, we are at more than 500,000 Italians vaccinated a day. [[Applause]] Well, a change of pace there was on the vaccine plan, as a change of pace and perspective there was on the reopenings, which have finally begun, with that calculated risk, which is not unconscious and which also has a direct impact on the economic scope of the measures. In fact, the more companies will be able to return to work (the best support they can give), the more they will be able to concentrate resources on those who still have to suffer before they can reopen. On social media a post has appeared for a few hours in which we complain and we are concerned that this morning the extension of curfew was rejected in March, that is to say in the past. We, on the other hand, are concerned about having obtained, as League, the fact that in May, in a few days, we will be able to review the opening hours, if the data will allow it. [[Applause]] Data that, it is good to remember, must be recalled in negative, unfortunately, when it is needed, but must be valid, because science is always valid and not with alternating current, when it can be said, as can be said in these days, that the data improve and that this will allow the reopenings. This applies to the size of the resources. I referred first to the 40 billion already allocated and already committed, in part, to the next decree and, of course, to the use of resources. In this decree you will not find a single euro spent unnecessarily on scooters or anything else. We, responsibly, all together, have spent up to the last cent thinking about the debt that we are contracting with our children. Here is the change of pace that we had imagined and that was necessary. Well, to those who wondered what Salvini's method was, I say this is. It is the Salvini method, a method that will also animate us in the coming months. Unfortunately, we don't have the version in French or German either. We only have it in Italian, because it is designed for Italians. It is a method that aims to support the Government, but to do so in a loyal and purposeful way. Someone, thinking of offending us, described the League as a party of struggle and government. Well, it's not an oxymoron, it's a natural consequence. We are proud to be a party of struggle and government because citizens, families and businesses are struggling to arrive at the end of the month, to get out of this crisis and it is necessary that the representatives of citizens struggle to find solutions, commit themselves to convince fellow travelers that we have in this support to the Government of the need to do more and more in the interests of citizens. [[Applause]] The basic text of the decree-law had already overcome enormous problems. We tend to forget (we forgot) the Ateco code system, which was so cowardly and unfair for many companies. Well, it is thanks to this majority and to the commitment of the League that already in the basic text that system of the codes Ateco, which was the negative cornerstone of the decree ristori, has been settled. We've done something else. Obviously we worked for the exemption from the payment of the RAI fee, for contributions to associations, for the recognition of sign language (we were the last country in Europe to have done nothing for this); we worked for fragile workers, to complete that period of uncovered integration fund. They are all measures proposed by the League, but shared by all and this is another big difference. In the same way, all the measures in support of the ceramic sector were shared (Mr Lanzi recalled all the senators who subscribed to that measure, among whom there were obviously also the Senators of the League); as well as the measures in support of the minor cities of art and the smaller villages in size (10 million euros). They are all shared measures, not a sum of individual interests brought by the individual party, but a single general interest. This is the great difference that also recalled my colleague Missa in the opening: to have worked together in the interest of the country. Allow me, however, to dedicate the final part of the intervention, as I think it is right and proper, not to those who have already found answers in the decree-law under consideration, but to those who have not found answers, but to those commitments that we intend to honour in a few days with the additional 40 billion, so that they become answers from now on. We did not want the usual agenda and not by chance, working on it together at night time, we have identified 11 points which I would like to mention quickly and which already represent part of the resources committed to those who did not have but will shortly have. We have committed the Government, as it is right for a Parliament to do, to use the resources of the deviation for further non-refundable contributions to the holders of VAT numbers and all businesses in the different sectors on which the crisis has struck Covid; to identify appropriate support measures for labour-intensive enterprises (coafes, cleaning services, etc.), with particular regard to measures for cash integration; to identify measures to support the provision of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and to extend until 31 December 2021 the expiry of the State guarantee scheme on loans. We have also committed the Government to the extension until 31 December 2021 of the moratorium on SME credits and measures relating to the so-called Gasparrini Fund; to the allocation of adequate resources, amounting to at least 600 million euro, in favour of local authorities, to be allocated to the reduction of the payment of the waste tax (Tari) by companies; to the allocation of additional resources, amounting to at least 100 million euro, in favour of the mountain fund, as referred to in Article 2 of the decree-law currently under consideration; to the extension of the allowances for seasonal workers, with particular regard to seasonal workers in agriculture, the tourism sector, the cyclical workers of entertainment and culture; to the allocation of additional resources in favour of local authorities; to the allocation of adequate resources to address the psychological distress of children. We have committed the Government to measures aimed at solving the problem of the fair sector, as others have already mentioned, and for measures in favour of companies that manage activities of cultural services, events, congresses, shows, cinema, theater, the wedding sector. Well, it's not a list, but it's what we ask citizens to come up with on the next decree-law to prove that this political class has dignity and respect for the country. Those figures will find them, because we will keep this commitment from here to the next few months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u184	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u185	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the method that accompanied this decree-law, that of listening to the social partners by the Government, which has modified some mechanisms of allocation of resources, slow or confused in the previous decrees ristori; listening to the audit categories and their specific requests brought to the meetings 5th and 6th of the Senate, which has seen the adoption of many proposals; but above all a full comparison between all the parliamentary groups in the Commission and a careful listening by the rapporteurs Missa and Toffanin. And since I am biased, I would particularly like to thank Senator Toffanin, who has fully married the role of rapporteur following with passion and competence, point by point, the evolution of the text in the Commissions meeting. The decree-law and the implementing provisions that accompany it have the important task of strengthening the instruments of contrast to the diffusion of the Covid-19 and of containing the social and economic impact of the preventive measures adopted. It uses for this purpose 31 billion remaining in the first deviation deliberated by Parliament and also traces the way for the next decree-law support- bis, which should see the light next week and which will put in place the other 40 billion of the last deviation, or in any case a large part of them, to be allocated, as you said earlier, to those restaurants for as many categories as today could not have had their satisfaction. On this I believe there is the commitment of the Government to fill this gap. In the meantime, as I said, companies have a lot of oxygen: 11 billion grants and about 15 billion aid. At work and the fight against poverty there are 6 billion; to health and safety about 3 and a half billion, investing on vaccines with a campaign that proceeds sent thanks to General Son, the organization set up, and also the resources of anti-Covid drugs. Above all, what we like is the new organization of the General Son, who is having important successes: over 500,000 vaccinated every day are the real hope of being able to remove the spectre of this pandemic. Local authorities have had 3 and a half billion, with which they will also be able to increase local public transport, which is the real weakness of the fight against the spread of the virus. As I said, there has also been ample room for parliamentary amendments: first of all, I would like to mention the exemption of the first IMU instalment (a measure I supported with my colleagues in Forza Italia), and other additional amendments which have a coverage of EUR 216 million. This is a support to meet those people who, already hit by closures and therefore lost revenues, would also be penalized by a tax for real estate that during the period did not produce an income, because the activities that take place there were still. For my part, I also have satisfaction with a measure I cared about: the encouragement of corporate welfare. I believe and hope that it will also be present in the next decree-law supports with a figure higher than the one intended by this provision. In the same way, I am satisfied with the approval of the norm that regards the Port channel of Cagliari, where an important process of industrial conversion is already under way, that must be accompanied, in particular now, just in order to protect the various hundreds of places of work interested from the business crises and to return centrality to the industrial port of Cagliari. Of course, on this subject, there is not only the amendment of Forza Italia, my amendment, but also those of my colleagues Cucca and Fenu. I must also thank you for the presence of Deputy Minister Todde, who was very interested in this amendment. I shall begin with the conclusion of my speech, Madam President, and I conclude by accepting the request, already made earlier by other Members, also during the morning, for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into working conditions in Italy and safety in public and private workplaces, which was deliberated more than a year and a half ago by the Senate. We owe it to the victim of yesterday's work, Luana, and we owe it to today's victim, Martinelli, who touched us deeply. For this reason, we believe that we must urge the adoption of this measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u186	The Presidency obviously supports the pain of the victims, as it has already had the opportunity to express itself this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u187	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u188	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, this is a very decisive and important measure, of which the rapporteur, Mr Missa, has pointed out certain aspects that we share in particular. We have entered the support phase; it is not only a nominal fact, but it means that the country's economy is moving towards a restart and therefore there is a support for something that tries to be reborn. We are in the middle of spring and lately also the climatic condition has gone a bit in this direction; therefore the country tries to raise its head. Many times there is talk in this Parliament and in this Senate of what activities and work are being or are not being carried out in this House. The main commitment of these weeks in the Senate - perhaps it is good to remind everyone - was a huge economic commitment, which obviously also contributes to the country's debt, but which tries to support our productive fabric, the effort for health and for vaccination intervention and workers of all categories. In debt, of course; but we believe that, as with all investments (in this sense "support" is a particularly valuable word), if you invest well, debt can return in economic terms, but also in terms of the country's ability to face new challenges. Our Commission is not particularly affected by this measure, not least because it has direct and particular funding lines, but we are dealing with that fundamental part for the recovery of this country, which concerns school, culture, the field of research and university and, ultimately, also sport, a subject which, many times, I care a little less about, among the many subjects of our Commission. This House and this composite majority have succeeded in an important result: in this decree-law one of the most important aspects of the amendment, even in percentage terms, is the 50 million that are allocated, with the vote that we will vote in the next few hours, to amateur sports clubs. This is an important commitment and an important choice of Parliament in terms of percentage of expenditure. Obviously it is a small amount compared to the actual needs of this world, which has been hit heavily by the pandemic, because it has had the blocking of activities and also a significant increase in expenses, having to reorganise completely and having to use all the mechanisms and systems of control and verification (the swabs and health interventions, which represent costs), in order to try to continue to live and continue to offer its services especially to the boys and girls, especially to the younger ones, but also to that older part of the population that draws great benefits in terms of health from sport. At a time of pandemic, it is important to try not to lose this fundamental function. I have to say that in recent weeks I have had the opportunity to listen to a lot of reflections on the subject of sport. The most interesting reflection is on the idea of sports culture, which we need to strengthen, and that is why it is a subject that is well placed in our Commission. We must make sure that the country really interprets sport not as the competitive activity that concerns above all the great sporting events, which are perhaps the bearers of great economies and also of great economic conflicts, but as the sport diffused for all that becomes a daily practice. This is a very important choice. There are other interventions that have been approved by the many that we have tried to propose. For example, there is a very important tax credit for all performing companies; a very impressive credit for 90% of companies. 2020 has been a very difficult year that almost should not see taxation for this world that practically had to stop completely. It is therefore all the more important to acknowledge Parliament's recognition, which shows that it has realised that it recognizes that function and that it recognises a credit and supports a recovery. In this sense another amendment extends the function of vouchers; a measure discussed if perhaps seen by a citizen who had purchased the ticket for a show and who is not interested in others. It is clear that he can also rightly think of having a refund as soon as possible. Many other citizens prefer instead to have the guarantee of being able to realize their purchase, frustrated by the Covid, in a time when they will be able to do it in tranquility and serenity and the extension up to thirty-six months gives this space, but honestly this means also allowing the whole world to reorganize and return, having been firm, what it had cashed in and that obviously could not offer because it was objectively unsustainable. There is therefore a bet on the future. All measures go in this direction. We still think about the surgery on PhDs, which allows girls and boys to have the guarantee to continue in their activity so precious. However, there are also many expectations - which have emerged in many speeches in general discussion - that have arisen from the decree-law that we are discussing and have turned into guidelines and agendas that have been approved by the Commission and that, starting from the measure at our examination, will be given to the Government as guidelines for the next measures to be taken. It is clear that the work to be done is still enormous. Let us think, for example, of the world, far from marginal, of the travelling spectacle, of which I met the representatives today. For this world, an important intervention concerns the public land occupation tax, which I believe Parliament can commit itself to covering against the municipalities, ensuring that it is not at their expense. To conclude, the point is that we are seriously committed to reaching out for help, trying to cover losses and believing that Italian companies, workers and workers in this world can start again. We think you see the light at the end of the tunnel and with the decree-law at our examination we started turning: before the curve the light was not seen, because the refraction of the light in the dark works like this, but after the curve, we start to see it and now we accelerate to finally go out in the open and in Dante's year - a quote that will please the Vice President - you can return to see the stars again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u189	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u190	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs very much, first of all the rapporteur, Mrs Toffanin, for the work she has done, the rapporteur, Mr Missa, my colleagues from the Commission, starting with the Parent Company, because we have actually tried to do a positive job, taking into account the conditions given. I think we can start from these very conditions given to make a brief analysis. President Draghi rightly, when he presented this measure at the press conference, used words as always measured, saying that it was a decree-law that partially managed to give answers and it is true, in the sense that certainly a more complete picture will be obtained with the approval of the so-called decree support- bis. It should also be said that some important changes have been made, such as those relating to turnover or also to the means of payment, because I do not know if you have noticed that we no longer talk about the problem of late payments for the very simple reason that another platform has been used and has been recognized everywhere in the press, so from 8 April payments have begun at extreme speed, on the basis of questions. This certainly creates different problems, because we cannot calculate other elements, but a whole series of interventions have been put in place. As Senator Floris recalled in his speech, this is also an important decree for the funds he has earmarked for the vaccination campaign and we can tell ourselves clearly among ourselves, colleagues, that no one believed, from those words that President Draghi initially said here, talking about the involvement of the Army and Civil Protection, that he would be able to take us within two and a half months to the level to which he brought us in terms of the vaccination campaign. We must never forget this, because this is the first reason why we are - albeit different - together, because we are saving, even here with all the difficulties of the case, numerous lives. We cannot clearly say that with the conversion of this decree-law we will have solved all the problems, we know very well, because we have all seen the multiple demands that have been made and the flood of amendments coming from the social fabric. I would like to make a comment on that. Very often it seems a problem that hundreds of amendments are tabled, but these are proposals that are not born out of nothing but from the concrete needs of groups and people, and I think it is right that Parliament should play this role. Of course, unfortunately, it fails - because there is always a problem of financial coverage and of course of resources - to give solutions for all and so we know that a whole series of problems remain open. This does not mean that Forza Italia in a particular way has given and has tried to give its imprint, clearly focused on tax reliefs, IRAP, IMU, freelancers, with reference to the company welfare, for startups, and, as far as it could be done, in the field of tourism (I think about the themes of villages and tourist buses). In their speeches, colleagues pointed out the issues that have been dealt with. Others have been left behind, we regret it and we are aware of it, but we will not continue to work in this direction. I am thinking, for example, of certain amendments which have been submitted to us at various territorial levels. I'm thinking about my land. There were some amendments which could have been made to the industrial or agricultural aspects. Although we have not been able to give a complete picture, we have given or tried to give answers, for example in the matter of disability, contributing to the National Federation of Pro blind Institutions, we have given answers to the needs of the municipalities with the ANCI foundation for sports facilities, which helps the municipalities, especially the smallest. We have tried to give answers to the problem of the shrine cities. As you know, in Umbria we have the Sanctuary of Santa Rita da Cascia, whose anniversary is celebrated shortly. As Mr Collina mentioned earlier, whom I thank for the work we have done, we have also tried to give answers to the ceramics sector. In view of all these interventions, someone wanted to define the measure at our examination an omnibus decree, but it is not for two orders of reasons. First, when it was dismissed by the Government the decree-law was ordered, having specific areas of intervention, such as business, work, poverty, health and support to the territorial authorities. In this orderly framework, Parliament has worked on specific demands of the political forces, which it has been forced to select, because otherwise we would have had to have a much greater plafond and maneuvering capacity. It is then clear that all political forces, when they make precise choices, direct them on their characteristics and their electorates. That is why I have mentioned the measures that Forza Italia has taken in particular with the amendments that have been gradually identified and selected in the areas it historically defends. In his speech Mr Mallegni quite rightly said that he finally began to hear about enterprise in a certain way. This is true and we have certainly managed to make a positive contribution from this point of view: businesses, the professions and more. I think we can feel quite satisfied. In such a situation, unfortunately, we can never be totally satisfied, but at least we know that we have built in Parliament, thanks to the Government, the best working conditions that we could give the country, even in terms of lines and guidelines to be pursued. We know that the work that awaits us sees and will see so many discontents, as we have seen in so many reactions and sectors. However, this does not mean that the conditions we have built must lead us to give the country, to the full and with great determination, economic serenity and public health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u191	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u192	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I managed my first VAT business at the age of seventeen. Formally I was addicted, but basically I ran the business, until I graduated and I could head the license without having to take the exam at the Chamber of Commerce (which was possible at the time). After that, I enrolled at the university, which I finished working. I say all this not to claim a belonging or to highlight a sympathy, but to mean that when I speak of unconquered, VAT matches and those who have always been the last in the attention of previous governments I know perfectly what I am talking about. I have confidence in what it means to invest your capital and your time, leaving your family, friends and personal interests behind for an activity that is often paid less than one without any kind of risk and sacrifice that the holder of a VAT number has instead. The time span of my direct experience covers thirty-five years, during which many things have happened. There have been two destructive earthquakes that, evidently and unfortunately, as we all know, have had as a direct consequence the deaths and victims, to which inevitably the first thought goes. The victims were - yes - direct consequences of the event, but also indirect consequences. In fact, after the crisis and the difficulty someone stopped fighting and decided to put an end to his suffering even giving up his life. I say this because I want to point out that one of the consequences of a crisis is unfortunately the victims, even if they are not direct victims. We know very well that the numbers are pitiful in this regard and that the direct victims are in the order of hundreds of thousands, but in addition to the direct victims, in this case of the pandemic, we must think of those who, experienced by the difficulty of facing such a complex and heavy situation, fail to move forward. This happens after an earthquake, after a pandemic and it happens because often one does not take into account an element that, unlike all others, is partially in control of all of us; I refer to time, that if lost and if not invested profitably, if not aimed at getting out of the difficulty in the shortest possible time frame, risks becoming that regret for which one gets to do the right thing, but does not have the desired effect, because it is done too late. So, ladies and gentlemen, the first question that comes to me now is: do we really want to be sorry that we didn't get there in time? [[Applause]] I remember a joke from a long time ago that said, The operation was successful perfectly, but the patient died. [[Applause]] We do not want the patient to die; we want the measures put in place, which are often useful, appropriate and effective, not to be frustrated by the time factor, which is the only one we can partially control. That is why the League is striving, for example, to anticipate reopenings; not because we want to oppose the action of the Government, but because as pragmatics and responsible people we have made the evaluation of all alternatives. So, reflecting on alternatives and not on absolute terms and following ideologies that inevitably lead off the road, we realized that the limited risks that would run to broaden the opening hours of activities, to reduce curfew and to apply those common sense measures that we ask for would be far less than the risk of not doing so. We do not want to mitigate the measures of caution, but we want to prevent caution from becoming excessive and the consequences of caution lead to further problems. As I said before, in this decree-law there are steps in the right direction. This does not mean that the path has ended (we know it well and the Government knows it as well, that in fact is already working on the next decree), but these steps are undeniably there. As a Marcher, I can only be satisfied with the measures in favour of the regions affected by emergencies. As an earthquake victim, I can only be satisfied with the measures planned for our areas. As a former mayor, I can only express my satisfaction with the measures planned for the benefit of the municipalities and mountain people, and I express my full satisfaction with what is planned for mountain activities. I come from a ski resort, which was hit hard first by the earthquake and then by the Covid, but it taught me how important winter tourism is and how important the lifts are, not only for the direct turnover they generate, but also for all the induced that for mountain areas is often vital. In addition to the measures I have just mentioned, my satisfaction goes also - as I pointed out before - to VAT consignments, a category to which I have valued myself to belong for the vast majority of my life. I am referring to the exemption of the first installment IMU, to the direct contribution to the liberal professionals, always and systematically ignored by all, which instead we have bullied the attention of this Parliament and the Government; those free professionals who constitute the economic backbone of our country, who pay the taxes, that generate millions of jobs that were never considered. I conclude as I had begun: at last the ignored, finally the forgotten, finally those who had never had the attention from the government have returned overpoweringly under the spotlight as they deserved, clearly with a first step to which will follow others who - we commit to guarantee - will be there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u193	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u194	Mr President, unfortunately, the desired change of pace announced on several occasions by this Government has not taken place and has not taken place in practice. I can only judge insufficient the answers given by this decree-law support, which pair both with restrictive measures and with the reopening claudicants that have put and threaten the survival of many companies. It is not rational to argue that one can save a company by giving it only aid that usually corresponds to a percentage ranging from 2% to 5% of the decrease in turnover. As Brothers of Italy for months we insist that the only way to help and support companies is to intervene on fixed costs. One of the important instruments, perhaps the only one that had carried this Government well, was linked to the 110% superbonus. It is certainly an important tool that serves to help and can be a flywheel for our national economy, as well as being a strategic tool to achieve the goals of urban regeneration. It is therefore an instrument that must not be lost at all, but it is an opportunity that must be taken. As I said earlier, it must be a flywheel for the national economy, so much so that we have seen in recent months how this instrument has led to an increase, week after week. Let us take a few examples: on 19 March, there were some 6,500 interventions amounting to 733 million euros and, only after ten days, we have reached an increase of almost 40%, moving to 9,207 interventions, worth more than one billion. Therefore, the superbonus would certainly be an anti-cyclical measure. Brothers of Italy has always considered that, in order to revive the economy, and above all to support companies, it was necessary to stimulate consumption and also production. This is the logic behind the superbonus too; but in order to achieve this, two elements are essential: the first is the extension. An extension to 2023 is essential because the deadline is in June 2022, and this would certainly discourage all those who want to draw. The other important element to be able to follow up the superbonus is certainly linked to bureaucracy and simplification. In this case too, the Government announced, a few weeks ago, the decree-law simplifications; therefore, it would be important for the superbonus to be part of this logic of simplification. Only from a verbal point of view has there been a commitment from Prime Minister Draghi both as regards the extension and as regards the issue of simplification. An important aspect is to extend the audience also to accommodation facilities, hotels, but an effect related to the superbonus concerns the development of raw materials since the works are increasing, so you have to monitor to avoid speculation. [[Recalls of the President]] In short, Mr President, in conclusion, this is a government that does the opposite of what it would be right to do, i.e. it does not confirm the only bonus that should have been confirmed, that of 11%. Instead, it has given rainy bonuses and denies the financing of the only bonus that, as I said, would be able to guarantee development and growth. So the government walks backwards, like a shrimp, and risks crashing. What interests us and worries us, however, is that it might be the Italians who go to battle. We of Brothers of Italy will not allow it and we will be vigilant, so that this bonus can actually be realized, because it is fundamental, precisely in order to create a flywheel that serves all companies, in the field of construction, which represent a backbone of our economy. So we will be vigilant, so that these words can be carried out in concrete acts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u195	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u196	I call on my colleagues to remain within the allotted time frame.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I too want to acknowledge the work done by the Finance and Budget Committees, the rapporteurs Missa and Toffanin and the Government, because the Decree-Law supports, which was the beginning of the Draghi Government in the area of urgent measures to support businesses and economic operators, could be improved by the amendment phase, developed by the Commissions. Obviously we must not forget the starting point, that is the text of the decree-law still in force, which contains measures financed by the last budgetary deviation presented by the previous government, of 50 billion euros in cash terms, which the Government Draghi, in its composition largely representative of the parliamentary political forces, interpreted in an appropriate way. Of course, as I said in the speech on the budgetary deviation voted two weeks ago, the fact that we followed the pandemic month by month did not help us to make overall assessments, which in advance could allow us to give targeted responses. Today, however, after a year, the assessments of priorities to safeguard the production system and help it not only to put itself in safety, but also in the conditions of sharing, are more precise. In fact, we focused on raising companies, particularly public establishments, from those fixed costs that would have been a difficult problem at this time of the year. I am thinking of the exemption of the first instalment of the IMU, the exemption of the single fee for street and public establishments, the RAI fee for public establishments, the elimination of the Irpef for rents not received, the extension of the IRAP payment to September. These are the main interventions that Parliament's work has been able to add to the text of the decree-law, but clearly this cannot be enough. The demands are obvious and, together with the other parliamentary groups that shared them, we have summarized them on a challenging agenda for the Government and we expect to see them already included in the forthcoming decree-law, which is called upon to put to the ground the additional budget of 40 billion euros, relating to the budgetary deviation voted ten days ago. They represent the contents, which we believe can complete this long year of running ahead of the pandemic, to cushion the negative effects on the economic system and which I would like to quote in a nutshell. In summary, it is necessary to ensure liquidity for businesses and households and to extend, at least, until the end of 2021, the granting of State guarantees on loans from the SME and Sace Guarantee Fund and, in this context, it appears necessary to extend at least six to fifteen years of the duration of State guarantees on loans exceeding EUR 30,000. The moratorium on loans and loans, which covers EUR 173 billion of loans due at the end of June 2021, many of which are likely to become bank suffering due to the failure to resume activity and work, should also be considered to extend the repayment of loans and loans by six months if the share capital plus interest and twelve months if limited to the share capital. Then I quote the aid to the enterprises and the new round of ristori, to be added to those of the first decree supports, with the automatic sending to those who have obtained the ristori of the first decree and with a substantial increase for the activities closed by law. New measures are needed to compensate for the fixed costs of companies, on the model already tested in other countries of the European Union, for commercial rents, electricity bills, sanitization costs and Tari, together with other specific measures. Significant action should be taken in relation to the decontribution to seasonal recruitment, particularly in the receptive tourism sector; a completion of family support measures to combat poverty, with particular regard to the refinancing of the flexibility of the municipal solidarity, food and social fund throughout 2021. The resources allocated to the mountain must be increased; appropriate resources should be allocated to address the problems of the psychological distress of minors as a result of the Covid-19 emergency; measures should be put in place to solve problems of the trade fair sector; measures should be taken in favour of companies managing cultural activities and services (events, congresses and film shows, theatres, including their induced) which are closed due to the Covid-19 health emergency, with particular regard to the exemption from the payment of contributions for a period of not less than six months from the first month following the date of the opening of these activities. I wanted to make this clear because I believe it is appropriate and proper that what I have just read should be included in the text of the Support Decree. As a Parliament, we have developed a work which is not only an amendment to the text of the first decree of support, but we are counting on the needs of the country at this time and on the actions to be carried out. I think it was important for Parliament to be able to give these indications, which for us represent a commitment to which the Government must fulfil. One last step I want to dedicate to the world of cooperation, which through the many social cooperatives has represented in many territories a pillar of the third sector, which has been charged to cushion the economic and social impacts of the pandemic. The network of social cooperatives represents in our country a concrete example not only of solidarity, but also of resilience. If I may say, all the cooperation as a whole represents in our country a concrete example not only of solidarity, but also of resilience because also the cooperatives of production and work, those of consumption and service, the agricultural co-operatives and transformation of products have been able to adapt, even with so many difficulties, to this terrible year. With some additional rules we have given this reality the opportunity to better prepare for recovery, which these weeks of vaccination at a sustained rate make us see closer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u198	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u199	Mr President, I shall be brief and essential. I'll cut to the chase. I simply want to reiterate what many of us have said tonight. That is a good decree in our examination; we have also said that it must be improved for businesses and, in my opinion, especially for the entertainment industry. Senator Collina used to talk about the social world. I know what he does because I come from the social world. They still kept working. I believe that, on the other hand, we must pay more attention and act as soon as possible on combating poverty in a different way. More support should be given to local authorities because they, together with the mayors, are all in difficulty. If we help the local authorities, we will automatically help the activities that have been in serious difficulty during this period - I am talking about small artisans. Despite everything, small businesses continued to pay Tari, as they continued to pay for the occupation of public land. I make a trivial example, but serious and true. The hairdressers kept their activities closed, but despite this they continued to pay for the special waste. I give these examples because, if we help all the institutions and our cities, these people can automatically be helped. On the vaccination campaign, nothing to say. General Son is accomplishing the goals that we all set ourselves. I would, however, like to draw particular attention to the question of industrial tax credit: this is the objective of my intervention. Tax credits may not necessarily be used as compensation, but may also be transferred to third parties, including credit institutions and financial intermediaries. This option would only cover loans accrued by companies in relation to investments in capital goods, both 4.0 and traditional. In this way, we would also give new oxygen and new investments, especially to agriculture, which has not just been the case. This is an excellent initiative which, in my opinion, could also be understood with regard to tax credit and investment bonuses for the Mezzogiorno. If the ratio of the recovery plan is to help the most suffering areas, I do not see why not extend this possibility to the reference measures. I don't have to add much. I only hope that, in the second decree, they will give a chance and hope to the measure that I have just outlined. I should like to conclude by hoping that this possibility can be put in place and that companies can be given the opportunity to make further investments with more serenity, given that at this time the serenity has been taken away from them because of the pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u200	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will refer to only one category of the many people covered by this decree: the fragile workers. But who are the fragile workers? They are, first of all, people who have the misfortune of having a fragility, they are weak people. We are talking about immunodepressed, transplanted or severely disabled people who, for a year, have had to divide between choice of work and choice of health. In the first months of the pandemic, until mid-October, in order not to expose them to contagion, those who could not be assigned to agile work could be placed in illness, equal to hospitalization, even if with guarantees other than contract to contract. Then, however, they were abandoned by the Count Government until December 31, right during the second wave; forced to return to work, perhaps in crowded places, and the unluckiest going there by public means. It has been said that this was due to a lack of funds. But how is that possible? How is it possible that a government has not found the resources to protect such fragile people and, instead, that funds have been found for scooters and wheelchairs? [[Applause]] Still covered, but only for the months of January and February, and then again the void, in a pull and continuous spring that, in addition to the health risks, exposed these workers to a discouragement and a state of continuous concern, just as harmful to their health. Only the League has fought, for months, to listen and therefore answers to these categories. [[Applause]] Since March, at last, with the new Government we have acted immediately and we have managed to obtain, with this decree, that the protections be extended until 30 June. We have dealt with the legal gap retroactively from 15 October to 31 December. And, above all, we have made binding for all the non-impact on the behaviour since 17 March 2020, the beginning of the pandemic. It concludes today, with success, a battle that has seen us, often, the only voice in the desert. I have lost track of how many speeches I have made in this House and in the Commission and how many amendments and agendas I have tabled. I always collided with a rubber wall placed by those who said they understood the needs, but nothing did. These people are the same people today who are self-celebrating and shamefully trying to test themselves to the norm and success of the affair. It is true that victory has so many mothers, while guilt is always orphan. I say clearly that, only thanks to the League and the tenacity of two of its fantastic women, Tiziana Nisini, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy, and Erika Stefani, Minister for Disability, now fragile workers have real and full protection. [[Applause]] Lucky for them, we are on their side, on the side of the fragile, the weak and the last, the ones you have forgotten. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u202	She's enlisted to speak Senator Petrenga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u203	Mr President, if we want everything to stay the way it is, everything has to change. This fully sums up the thought that Italians today have of the executive in office. We had to witness a crisis of government in the midst of the emergency because, by the same admission as the allies, the previous government was now an irrecoverable drift. The new Dragons Government was born and the political forces that make it up triumphantly proclaimed it Government of the best, making the Italians believe that by now they could be quiet, because everything would change. Unfortunately this was not the case and in just two months the Italians realized that all the assurances that had been given to them about the change of pace have turned out to be vain: they have changed everything, but in essence nothing has changed yet. Once again the old habit of fragmenting into so many rivoli the approximately 50 billion necessary for the financial coverage of the decree-law under consideration, that they disperse in so many new funds of little multiplier effect on the growth. It is now clear: what matters is to throw smoke in the eyes with bonuses and refreshments, which then are not refreshments and which certainly cannot represent structural measures that our country needs. The protests of these days are proof of this. Now, after a year of emerging crisis, Italians are tired of an approach far from reality, which unfortunately we have also found in the lines of the decree-law under consideration, which changed its name, but in substance has remained unchanged. The productive categories have renamed this provision decree crumbs, because it is insufficient to support situations that, also because of the brainic multicolor action on the openings and closures of the Regions, is compromising the survival of many economic realities. Just think of a practical example: in case of operating losses of 60,000 euros, in the coffers of professionals and VAT matches will arrive just 3,000 euros; then without talking about the professionals who, according to what is recognized to them, will take only a little more than 1,000 euros. To worry even more are the productive social categories, which have remained unheard. The many amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy were worthless. As a force of intransigent opposition, but also ready to offer its contribution in propositive terms, we have put forward proposals aimed at obtaining rewards proportionate to the losses; the tax moratorium for at least two years; the cutting of the tax wedge; the payment of bonuses; incurred rest and compensation; the elimination of cashback. However, we have not been heard. If we continue on this line, our country is destined to default, because it will be impossible to reactivate the national economy, considering that in the meantime small and medium-sized enterprises and traders, without real liquidity support and debt as never before, will find themselves having to pay fixed costs and utilities, which in the meantime have incomprehensiblely increased, with clear responsibility of the Government, that has not intervened promptly towards the large distribution companies. We will continue to pay one tax after another without any prospect of a concrete return to normality. Without considering that to date more than 300,000 companies have closed, throwing thousands of workers, fathers and mothers of families in the middle of the street who will find themselves alone facing the most serious working crisis since the post-war period. But Brothers of Italy will always be present and proactive in order to be able to accept the proposals that it presents for the benefit of all these categories. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u204	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u205	Mr President, we are here today to conclude an iter with the conversion into law of the decree-law support, an important measure because it puts another piece in that path aimed at supporting businesses, families and local authorities and to hold in such a heavy and so dramatic passage what the emergency Covid caused. We have put in place measures to prevent more damage from this emergency to the citizens and to our entire civil community. This is precisely why a number of measures are being taken to alleviate the burden of fixed costs and the costs of businesses and VAT consignments. Action is taken to support the whole world of work and social shock absorbers, with a view to maintaining cohesion and giving support to the many situations of difficulty and fragility that the emergency has worsened by heavily burdening people's shoulders. There is an intervention on health: it has already been mentioned in today's debate that vaccines and the completion of a path of strengthening the health system are probably the first and most important measure of recovery to which the country is called. And then the territorial authorities: we have all experienced how fundamental it is, at times of criticality and heaviness as the one we are called to cross, to have local authorities (municipal administrations and not only) capable of intervening where there are the most serious and critical ones. As has been said, there are more than 30 billion participations provided for in the decree-law, to which are added the 770 million managed during the conversion process, which go to add to all the interventions that already last year, starting from the decree-law care Italy, liquidity, relaunch, from the four ristori and from the same budget law, have been put on the field in order to face such a difficult situation. The measure under discussion is also on the eve of a next decree-law that I think next week the Government will pass, and it also stands on the eve of the departure of that National Recovery and Resilience Plan on which we all rely to give a perspective to the country. I believe that this and the next measure have been put in place, because we must get to have a social fabric and an entrepreneurial system able to face that path of revival and resilience that we aim to face. As regards the agricultural sector, which I have been following particularly in this matter, we had in Article 39 a significant increase in resources for the agricultural supply chains of fisheries and aquaculture, to which some measures have been added in the course of conversion which I believe are very important: first, the transfer of the credit for the transition 4.0, which will allow a significant effort of innovation to agricultural enterprises, being able to have an instrument that allows them to access them; in fact, the tax credit as a tax system of agricultural enterprises is in many cases a statement that is in fact not practicable. The norm on the usability of the labelled products without the EU requirements, for the enterprises that in this year have struggled to adapt on one side and on the other side in many cases have the warehouses full of labels, because it has sold much less, will allow to have more time in order to be able to close the product remained in stock. Then there is the rule on vertical farming: we have all an innovative system of vertical productions that is entering the track in our country and can guarantee an additional opportunity for important development. However, we did not have a rule that would allow us to define in a precise way how these companies had to take on the market in order to be able to market their products. We have therefore approved this text in the Decree-Law under consideration. There is also the issue of contributory exemptions for agricultural holdings. Of course, we had started with a different ambition: to deal with many other important issues, starting with the answer to the problem of seasonal workers in agriculture. Here is an important theme: the unfortunately exotic cost of this measure has not allowed us to resolve it here, but in the order of the day we strongly ask the Government that, in the next decree, be contemplated this measure, because a flood of people could not make the minimum of working days necessary to be able to have the CISOA (the agricultural integration fund). It was and is absolutely necessary to address this issue. There is also the need to give answers to the problems of meat animal husbandry. We had assumed in this measure to work on the percentage of VAT compensation, but also in this case, due to lack of resources, it was not possible to complete the path. With regard to the theme of agritourisms, the rule of clarification on connection, on which for years it has been working, becomes a very important element to give prospects and opportunities for growth to this sector. There is also the theme of clarification on the diet and supply of waste for anaerobic plants for the production of electricity and methane. These are all measures which will have to be combined with an increase in resources for the supply chain fund. We know that agriculture - all the figures say - is an extraordinary sector in terms of opportunities in general, and especially for some marginal territories, in which the bet on the future is either agricultural or not. In order for this to happen, however, we need a strengthening of the supply chains. This year we have approved important measures, which go in the logic of grafting greater equity within the individual segments of the sector, but it is clear that restructuring of the sector calls for resources. Therefore, we have asked and will ask for a strengthening of the resources in the decree-law that is near to emanate. There is also a need for intervention in favour of small breweries, because this sector, with the closure of Horeca in the last year, has thrown away a flood of products, which could not be used because it expired. I think all these speeches are absolutely important. I shall conclude by saying two basic things. We will call for further action on the National Solidarity Fund, especially for those catastrophic climate events that have occurred over the past few weeks, which seriously damage the sector. I think he worked well. I have been part of the work in the Budget and Finance Committees and I must say that it has worked very well and I believe that this can be a prerequisite for the next steps on which the country relies in an important way in order to be able to look more confidently to the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u206	Colleagues, having regard to the time and having to proceed at 7.30 p.m. to the sanitization of the Chamber, after hearing the Groups, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the bill to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u207	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 42 of 22 March 2021 on urgent measures on the sanctioning rules on food safety" (2201).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u210	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Madam President, from the censorship attempt which has been being discussed for a few days - I am referring to the famous phone call between Fedez, the deputy director of RAI 3 and subjects linked to the production of the concerton of May 1 - the appalling message that comes out of it, which has been explicitly and repeatedly repeated during the call, is that there is a system and it must be adapted. According to the censors there is therefore a system in which an artist, in a program that airs on RAI, cannot tell serious facts, really happened. I repeat: facts, not opinions. You can't say that a Legist regional councillor has declared "if I had a gay son, I would burn him in the oven" or quote other statements of this homophobic tenor. Fortunately the censorship attempt did not succeed, because Fedez rebelled, did not get intimidated, did not think of negative relapses for his career, but rather made public what happened. However, the mere fact that someone tried to control an artist's words is of unheard of gravity. There are two cases: either it was an attempt at spontaneous censorship by the deputy director of RAI 3 or by the person who told her to intervene in that direction, or it was an attempt that resulted from a specific request from a political party. Both hypotheses are very serious and cannot remain unpunished. Those who have failed must pay, must assume their responsibilities and those who have attempted to censor in RAI must resign immediately. [[Applause]] Among other things, in the specific case, state television had bought that show packaged outside the RAI and, therefore, it is even more difficult to understand why the company, or just some of its executives, were concerned about a show organized by the unions and produced by an external company. In this affair we do not discuss a mistake or someone who has been more realistic than the king: the protection of freedom of expression is at stake. I do not say this because I agree with Fedez's intervention, but to affirm a fundamental principle. All this would never have happened in a free and independent company, and if it happens, it's because RAI is dotted and certainly not since yesterday. It is our duty to reform this great Italian cultural garrison so that this does not happen anymore and, to do so, we need the political forces, all of them, to remain outside the company. Who works in RAI, at any level, must be able to do so on merit, for recognized and demonstrated professional skills and not for political belonging. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u213	Colleagues, being already on sanitization time, I will be respectful of the three minutes. MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, "Followed and beaten in the house with the cry of "Lesbian death": shock attack on Bolsena. Is it true you're gay? Professor 43 years old attacked and threatened with knives. Ragusa: a bunch of underage kids hit 20-year-olds in the street, yelling, "You're a fag." Roma: young lesbian refused at the job interview. "We need women, not missing males." Cagliari: bullies attack 17-year-old homosexual and her friend; the shock video on Facebook. ==References====External links== "This is how we treat people like you in Rome." I could move on. These are cases of news, President, of 2019, when I filed my bill on the issue of combating homotransphobia. So we weren't talking about it today, luckily, but these cases have always happened and unfortunately will continue to happen, unless you decide to do something. The European countries in which there has been a law against homolesbobytransphobia for years are practically all. I quote them in alphabetical order together with the date of approval of the law in question: Austria 2004, Belgium 2003, Cyprus 2004, Denmark 1987, Finland 1995, France 2004, Germany 1992, Greece 2005, Ireland 1993, Iceland, Luxembourg and Norway 1981, Holland 1991, Romania 2002, Spain 2003, Switzerland 1999. In Sweden the crime of incitement to hatred against LGBT people was included in the Constitution in 2002 and the world has not fallen and Sweden still exists. Finally, there has been a law against homolesbobytransphobia in the United Kingdom since 2005. This law in Italy had a very long gestation: thirteen years ago the first attempt at approval was made; then there was the great work of bicameral conciliation put up by Alessandro Zan, deputy of the Democratic Party. Today Lega e Forza Italia announce suddenly that they will present an alternative bill to the one already approved by a large majority in the Chamber, showing little democratic sensitivity and little respect for the institutions, because they want to bypass a text of law already approved in the Chamber, reckless will for improvisation and instrumentality. These are dilated techniques. If he were really interested in this issue, they would have had three years to legislate on it and there is no bill of these political forces. Italy has been waiting for this bill for 27 years. That's enough teasing. [[Applause]] If this is to continue, the 5 Star Movement has already reached more than enough to activate Rule 77 and to request calendarisation directly in the Chamber. Let us set a deadline for the House and show that our will to approve the Zan law against homophobia, misogyny and skill is real. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u216	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, it is difficult to accept that even the State, which should have been one of the few legal garrisons in a Calabria abandoned by all, instead, in the case of schools, is vilely removed from its role and function. To the economic and productive degradation of the territory has been added the fact that the school has easily become the cheapest catwalk for politicians who have abused and abused their institutional role. From the acting president Spirlì, who inaugurated the closing season of schools of every order and rank also in the yellow-orange area, to the mayor Alecci, arrived to close for a day the class of the school of childhood attended by the autistic child of Soverato which the school manager had refused to join in class by the therapist Abba paid by the family, has now become a practice for the Calabrian administrators to make tests of strength with the school, in the total inertia of the Ministry. The explosive situation also depends on the Ministry's peripheral offices. After the arrest of the manager of the territorial office of Catanzaro, the suspension of the director of the regional school office, we go to fish, in order to place him in the school office of Catanzaro, a multi-sanctioned manager coming from the provincial field of Cosenza, Dr Luciano Greco, while the territorial field of Cosenza remains once again without an executive. This situation is indicative of the treatment given to Calabria by the Ministry: we are considered less than zero. But this isn't over. For more than a year now I have presented a question that has remained strictly unanswered about the work of a school manager of a professional institute in Lamezia Terme, which since 2018 would have carried out several illegal acts: it has certainly changed the teacher of right to eight classes in May 2018; it would have diverted the registration to the third year of students from the commercial to the hotel address without prior acquisition of their consent; it would have allowed its collaborator to operate with several overlaps of several classes in the same hours, illicitly combining it for a weekly total of less than eighteen due. All this has been reported in vain: the offices of the Ministry remain totally inert; no one answers questions about these facts that expose a clearly unsustainable system. What are the executives and officials of the Ministry for if they simply put bits or dust under the carpet compared to a management that has become a colob? No inspection staff; they have been waiting in vain for the competitions for more than three years now. In such a totally deregulated context, they are ridiculous to counter the Minister's reassuring words.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u219	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, can we hope for concrete action on the infrastructure needed to revitalise Central Sardinia this time? Will we have the courage to reverse a trend that will otherwise lead to irreversible decline in the inner areas? The presentation to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility of the recovery funds for the Region of Sardinia is recent, by the Department of Transport that - like all of us - hopes for a careful and decisive intervention. The first concerns the Nuoro-Macomer railway network, which has all the requirements: the four-and-a-half-year timetable, the financial charges of 114 million euros and the commitment of the Sardinia Region to transfer the railway line to the Italian Railway Network. Nuoro is the only provincial capital not to be crossed by a national railway system. To date, accessibility to the capital is guaranteed by road vehicles alone. From the national line are completely excluded the whole wide area of central Sardinia and the entire side of eastern Sardinia, areas that in recent decades have suffered a lot for these limitations. The use of these funds would be the occasion - as indicated by Minister Giovannini - to heal the imbalance, realizing the completion of the Sardinian railway network serving the central and eastern territories. In this way we will guarantee to all the center of the island - in particular to Nuoro - a system of railway connection with the main ports of Cagliari and Porto Torres and with the airport of Cagliari and, therefore, the connections with the European TEN-Ts. We will also promote the fast, safe and green connection between the productive poles of the island and the transport of the goods from Pratosardo to Bolotana, towards the marine ports of call of Cagliari and Porto Torres. We will strengthen, through the ferrata system, the connections between the eastern and western parts of the island, consolidating the tourist activities. We will support the green transition, supporting sustainable mobility: stations will have to be modern, trains accessible to disabled people. We will increase the potential for economic and employment growth and promote the establishment of new activities to combat depopulation. If we do not grasp these possibilities and do not fight to realize the infrastructures we will have great responsibility to a city that gave birth to the Nobel Prize winner Grazia Deledda, to the writer Salvatore Satta and to Senator Salvatore Mannironi, one of the constituent Fathers, born and lived in Nuoro, of which we remember the contribution given to the cause of democracy. It would be a beautiful recognition to help create the conditions to allow the province of Nuoro a civil and economic progress. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u222	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, there is one issue that is particularly important to me and which I think should be borne in mind, because even in the emergency that we are going through, we must safeguard initiatives that are worthy of consideration. These characteristics embody the Universiadis, a multidisciplinary sporting event corresponding to the Olympic Games, but in the university. Its course is biennial and participates athletes from all over the world. Turin has applied to host the edition of the event in 2025 and not only, as it has already activated all the necessary procedures and is demonstrating the will and value of all local actors in pursuing this objective. The performance of the World Winter World Games 2025 will result in an increase of visibility at national and international level of the Piedmontese territory; a strengthening of the economic attractiveness of the territory; a significant and lasting modernization of public sports structures and will constitute a flywheel for the promotion of the culture of sport and healthy competition, as well as enhancing the territory as a destination for new visitors. The Piedmont Region has already provided an appropriation within its budget for the support of the event, but now the Government must do the same, formalizing the availability of economic guarantees for its organization. The 14th of May is the expected date for the signing of the contract and is very short. Without guarantees from the State at least resources for the start of the machine (5 million euros out of the 28 planned in current expenditures from here to 2025), the candidacy of Turin is seriously risking to fade. This is a bad prospect that I ask the Ministry and the Government to do everything to avoid. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u225	SACCONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to dedicate my speech in the Senate to an entrepreneur who I think deserves genuine gratitude from the whole of this House for an act of genuine civilization. The entrepreneur is Giuseppe Condorelli. [[Applause]] From press reports he was the subject of death threats by a mob clan. There were 40 arrests. To him goes our gratitude for his act of civilization. The State is also present with its Forces of Order and investigators who have investigated, but our testimony wants to be above all to tell people like him that they are not alone. We welcome this act of courage that is in the wake and does not make the sacrifice of those who have had the courage to denounce, starting from Libero Grassi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u226	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-323.ana.u227	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, May 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.46 p.m.)
