ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 13 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u3	The Presidency Council, meeting today, has decided, with immediate effect, that access to all Senate seats is prohibited to the parliamentarians who do not exhibit the green pass. [[Applause]] Where unauthorised access occurs, the sanction of prohibition of access to all seats of the Senate and prohibition of parliamentary work for ten days shall be imposed immediately. [[Applause]] For these reasons, the Council provides, with immediate effect, for the imposition of the sanction described above to Senator Bianca Laura Granato.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u4	The next item is: Information by the Minister of the Interior on the serious events that took place in Rome on October 9th at the event held at Piazza del Popolo. I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank this House very much for giving me the opportunity to provide information on the serious disturbances that occurred at the demonstration against the introduction of the green pass, which took place in Rome on 9 October. At the meeting of the question time last Wednesday in the Chamber of Deputies, a question addressed to me asked for clarification regarding that demonstration, with particular reference to the fact that there were representatives of Forza Nuova. The highly contingent times, which feature the specific instrument of inspection union, have allowed me to deal only very partially with a subject - that of public order and criminal infiltrations in protests related to government measures to contain the pandemic - which certainly deserves a broader and deeper examination. For this reason I immediately gave my willingness to report also on the subsequent events of Milan and Trieste, in view of the fact that they fit in the same context, being linked to the same forms of protest. Before entering into the matter of the incidents of violence in Rome, concerning which I renew my solidarity with the CGIL and my closeness to the police forces [[Applause]] This is an opportunity to offer both branches of Parliament an overall vision of how public order policy has been set up in these two years or so of pandemics. It was immediately clear that the restrictions on mobility and the sacrifices imposed by the anti-contagion measures could give rise to a state of widespread insufferance, even exasperated by the economic and employment repercussions resulting from the blocking or slowing down of productive and commercial activities. During this period, the resilience of Italy, which has reacted in a serious and composed way, has been put to the test, drawing on the heritage of its best moral and civil qualities. The holding of the country, also from the point of view of public order, owes much to the high sense of responsibility with which it has been lived and is experiencing this very difficult test. However, in 2020, and also in the course of this year, there were demonstrations of heated dissent, directed towards the various measures that the Government has adopted and calibrated from time to time due to the evolution of the pandemic curve for the purpose of limiting contagion. The risk that the protest and social discontent, triggered by the depressive effects of the pandemic, could be the subject of instrumental intrusions by subversive fringes of various political and ideological orientations, interested in relaunching conflicting planning and destabilising demands, also channeling spontaneous and transversal forms of rebellionism, which have so far been deprived of a unified direction. The awareness of this complex scenario has led to my own directive of April 2020 raising awareness of the network of prefectures to closely monitor critical signals and prevent possible violent drifts that can disrupt public order and security. With subsequent operational indications we have not failed to recommend the use of methods of management of the square based on the greatest balance, contesting the right to peacefully express dissent with the need to safeguard the orderly civil coexistence. It does not escape, however, as a different strategy, that does not relate the use of force to this need of equilibrium, present the danger of offering specious arguments to anti-system narratives, able in turn to coagulate and give coverage to the most decidedly oltranzist pushes. I would like to entrust this analysis to the evidence of the facts. From February 2020 to 18 October 2021 5,769 protests were held in Italy against government measures to contain the virus; more than half (precisely 3,668) took place in 2021 and of these 1,526, held between 22 July and 18 October of this year, concerned the contestation of the green pass. During the same period of 22 July - 18 October 2021, the effort to limit public disputes to green certifications led to the allocation of 17,470 units of mobile police forces to public security authorities. The percentage of protest initiatives that during this time period have recorded incidents of importance from the point of view of order and public security stands at 3.4%, covering only 52 events. The principle that public order in the streets must always be managed in a balanced manner is a key element of democracy. It is a principle that the police are sticking to not today and that is essential if we do not want a dangerous curtain of hostility or mistrust between those who manifest and those who defend the right to manifest. I now come to report on the 9 October event, which undoubtedly represented the most critical event in the context of the national mobilization against the green pass. I would point out that in the immediacy of the facts I asked the Chief of Police and Director-General for Public Security for a detailed reconstruction of the obvious problems which - it must be acknowledged - have marked the management of public order of those hours. It is clear that it has not been possible to contain all the criminal purposes from which the violent part of the protesters was moved, especially the one instigated by the most politicized elements and as a result there has been a serious disturbance of public order. On the next 13 October, in the meeting of the National Committee of Order and Public Security convened for the measures related to the G20 of the end of the month, in which the leaders of the intelligence agencies participated, the prefect, the quaestor of Rome, the representatives of the Ministry of Defense, and of course the summits of the Police Forces, I have emphasized the necessity that the security deficit determined from a situation that has exceeded every reasonable forecast must no longer repeat; this above all in consideration of the delicate phase that is going through and for the combined effect of several fronts: from the application of the green pass to the business crises, until the delicate reflections of the protest of the harbours and the haulers on the logistics of the goods. There is still a very challenging period ahead of us, which, moreover, will see, at the end of October - as I said - the summit of the G20 countries. At this stage, the information provided to focus every possible source of risk and the greatest dangers, as well as to direct the same mediation activities that have also demonstrated on several occasions their effectiveness in lowering tension and decongesting the square, should be considered valuable. My information will be based on the information provided to me by the Chief of Police and will focus on some questions that have characterized the political and media debate that developed in the following days. The Rome initiative has seen - as is well known - a composite and very heterogeneous participation. In fact, alongside exponents of political groups and movements belonging to both the radical right and the galaxy of the antagonistic left and the anarchist component, representatives of economic categories and even simple citizens who wanted to contest the containment measures of the Covid took part, considering them the expression of an authoritarian design aimed at affirming the so-called health dictatorship. A first aspect to be clarified concerns the adequacy of the public order system prepared by the provincial public security authority in relation to the high number of demonstrators, between 10,000 and 12,000 people who have been transferred to Piazza del Popolo and to the other streets of the centre of Rome. In fact, a disproportion has been noted between the two elements in comparison, to the point of questioning whether or not there has been an underestimation of the event, also depends on a lack of information circuit. I would like to make it clear that the organizers of the event, in giving the prescribed notice to the public security authorities, had indicated to 1,000 people the orientation number of the participants. However, having regard to the fact that the initiative would take place just a week before the introduction of the green pass, the same authorities considered that the actual turnout was going to be between 3,000 and 4,000 units. Consistent with this prediction, the public force made available to the Rome police station was 590 elements, to which 250 operators of the territorial force were added, also belonging to the Carabinieri's weapon and the Finance Guard. Therefore, the overall arrangement could count on 840 actual units to be considered to be fully adequate in terms of proportionality compared to the forecast estimates. In the same morning of October 9, there were also widespread controls on motorway toll booths and the junctions of the city's mobility, which had led to the identification and identification of just under a thousand protesters, mainly coming from the regions of northern Italy, signaling an incoming flow in line with the one anticipated. The event in Piazza del Popolo, like the previous one against the green pass and the other no vax and no mask, was also announced by an intense information campaign launched on the most popular social networks. However, unlike the previous events, which, although supported by the same wide battage, had made presences very small and well away from the emphatic calls of the organizers, that of 9 October unexpectedly attracted a number of participants more than tripled than the one expected, thickened in a short time in Piazza del Popolo. Moreover, the absence of information from any source did not allow to prefigure such an abnormal participation index compared to the previous ones. Another critical aspect concerns the participation of members of Forza Nuova at the event on 9 October. This presence, which has reached a total of about 200 units, only confirms the keen interest of this formation, notoriously belonging to the area of the radical and extremist right, to acquire, through its adherence to the protest, spaces of visibility that increase its basin of consent. The leading representatives of Forza Nuova who took part in the event were then highlighted especially in the phase of the clashes and during the assault at the headquarters of the CGIL, as evidenced by the precautionary measures arranged against them. The presence in Piazza del Popolo of a well-known Roman exponent of Forza Nuova, Giuliano Castellino, national vice secretary of the movement, was at the centre of attention. On several occasions, in fact, it was asked how it happened that a well-known subject to the Forces of the Order for his criminal history, recipient of a Daspus with a prohibition to participate in sporting events, as well as of the special surveillance of public security with obligation to stay, could lead to a public event in which he took active part. It should be clarified that, according to a strict approach taking into account the most recent findings of national and supranational jurisprudence, namely the ECHR and the Constitutional Court on prevention measures, the possibility of arrest of the person subject to special surveillance, governed by Article 75 of Legislative Decree No 159 of 2011, is now related to the violation of those requirements which have a specific and specific content and are therefore compatible with the constitutional principles. This more stringent approach has been the subject of previous interlocutions with the judiciary, with regard precisely to the application to the Castellino of the general requirement not to participate in public demonstrations except after giving notice to the public security authorities. In essence, only on the afternoon of 9 October, other valid legal grounds could justify its arrest on a different basis. It has been reported by several journalistic services that Giuliano Castellino, ascended the stage of Piazza del Popolo, indicated to all the protesters, with particular verbal violence, that from there shortly they would head to the headquarters of the CGIL to assault it, so that there would be a sort of proclamation of a criminal design to which no adequate response would be given. Hence a political reading that, using echoing expressions of the dramatic seasons of the history of the Republic, tends to accredit the thesis that this design would be almost supported, in its implementation, by the behaviour of the Forces of Order. I must firmly reject this reading. [[Applause]] In addition to not taking account of the events, it insinuates the doubt that the police forces, to which we owe the defence of the institutions and the maintenance of social peace, will lend themselves to being an instrument of obscure political aims. It is an unjust accusation, which casts an unacceptable shadow on the work of the Forces of the Order, which in the demonstrations of 9 October paid the tribute of as many as 41 wounded, also in order to face the warriors intending to assault the institutions. Then the hypothesis of the possible presence in the square of agents infiltrated among the protesters was also overshadowed. I feel like I have to rule out this creepy backstory, too. In the device was expected - as is normal - the presence of bourgeois agents belonging to the Digos with tasks of observation, monitoring and also mediation with the demonstrators. The same tasks were also assigned to the police operator who in civilian clothes appears in some images broadcast on social media and who was present in the actions of some exagitated who wanted to provoke the overturning of a police van. In fact, that operator was verifying that the force discharged into the vehicle did not actually succeed in the intent. [[Comments.]] It's the same agent who later, assaulted by a protester he arrested and still in custody... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u6	Colleagues, let the Minister speak and then you will have time to say what you think.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u7	Please, Minister Lamorgese. LAMORGESE, Minister for the Interior. As I said, he reacted in a broken way and for this reason he was self-marked and now his position is under the scrutiny of the judicial authority. Returning to the figure and role of Giuliano Castellino, it is important to specify the timing of his interventions from the stage of Piazza del Popolo, especially compared to another critical point that I intend to deepen here, namely the assault at the headquarters of the CGIL. After taking the floor a first time shortly after 3 pm, without referring to the CGIL, Castellino resumed to speak in public at 4.30 pm, that is a quarter of an hour after Luigi Aronica, another member of Forza Nuova, asked the security officers to allow the conduct of a procession that, crossing Villa Borghese, arrived until the confluence with Corso d'Italia. In the vicinity of the headquarters of the CGIL the protesters, according to the request at that moment formulated, but not authorized, would have paused - to them say - to spell out slogans of protest and disapproval. It is clear, therefore, that the intention of the demonstrators to head towards the trade union center was not the extemporaneous fruit of the incitement of Castellino, but had emerged already before, as the subject of an explicit request in the course of evaluation by the police authorities, who in the meantime had invited the demonstrators to wait, also in order to indicate their alternative routes and sites. At 16:45, without any authorization, a considerable number of demonstrators (about 3,000) suddenly began to move in the procession towards Piazzale Flaminio, with the intention of reaching Piazzale del Brasile. The advance of the protesters took place impetuously and somewhat messy, and for a short time managed to overcome the same police operators. This has meant that the Forces of the Order have suffered a serious difficulty of reaction, caused essentially by a situation that has come to accelerate in a few minutes; nevertheless they intervened immediately to curb the rapid advance of the procession, also inviting the demonstrators to desist and, at the same time, to prepare the remodulation of the services in order to prepare a barrier of containment in Piazzale of Brazil, at the confluence with Corso d'Italia. In this absolutely dynamic phase police officers also had interlocutions with Castellino, who in the meantime had reached the head of the procession; interlocutions that were however exclusively functional to gain time for the risking of personnel and means. At 5 p.m., six teams were deployed in Brazil's Piazzale, for a total of 60 men, headed by a State Police official, while two additional teams, for a total of twenty units, went to position themselves near the headquarters of the CGIL. In the meantime, a substantial containment device was arranged towards Via del Tritone to face the predictable and concomitant attempt of the demonstrators to reach the institutional headquarters. The exorbitant number of the participants in the procession and their impetus, however, represented a force of impact able to overcome the barrier quickly prepared in Piazzale of Brazil, thus opening a gap to the protesters, of which about 1,500 were headed towards the main entrance of the CGIL, while the others flowed towards Via Veneto, with the clear intent to get close to Palazzo Chigi and Montecitorio. During this turbulent phase of confrontation, characterized by an evident disproportion between the mass of demonstrators and the forces of order in the field engaged to cover various fronts, he was seriously wounded, reporting the fracture of a rib, the officer of Police who commanded the nuclei in service. The intervention of the police forces in defense of the headquarters of the CGIL, even if it happened in a moment of extreme concitement, has deployed at least initially in such a way as not to avoid the prevalence of the subversive action. It happened therefore that, thanks to the break-in of a side window at 17:27, a small group of facinosis managed to penetrate inside the ground floor and, consequently, to force the main door of the entrance, allowing also other demonstrators, present outside, access to the building. This was the most dramatic moment of that Saturday afternoon, which greatly disturbed public opinion for the violence of destructive action and the distraction of democracy that it represented; a moment lasted eight distressing minutes and which had its peak from 17.32, when the demonstrators broke into the trade union headquarters, at 17.35, when the police resumed full control of the situation and freed the premises of the CGIL, protecting them from possible further pressure from the demonstrators. The main perpetrators of this vile assault, by virtue of the institute of deferred flagrantity, have been arrested; they are six people accused of devastation and looting, incitement to delinquere, damage, aggravated trespassing, resistance and violence to the public official. All the people arrested are still in custody. The coercive measures have reached the two leaders of Forza Nuova, Roberto Fiore and Giuliano Castellino, their companion Luigi Aronica, Salvatore Lubrano, exponent of an organization of the radical right, and Pamela Testa, adherent to Forza Nuova, after having highlighted himself on the occasion of no mask demonstrations, and, finally, Biagio Passaro, among the leaders of the IoApro movement. I inform you that intensive investigation and verification of video footage recorded by the video surveillance system are under way to identify other persons responsible for criminally relevant conduct in relation to the events at the headquarters of the CGIL. These activities led yesterday evening to the execution of protective custody measures in prison against two more persons, recognized thanks to the images depicting them during the assault at the trade union headquarters. It is Massimiliano Ursino and Lorenzo Franceschi, both belonging to the Forza Nuova association, accused of devastation and looting in competition with others and of violence and resistance to public officer. A further point to be deepened is then represented by the unprecedented attempt to actually bring the siege to Palazzo Chigi and Montecitorio, thus following almost insurrectional purposes, threatened even earlier through social media. For long hours a flood of demonstrators, mainly from Via del Tritone, tried, on several occasions, to approach the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with clearly hostile intentions. The clashes then followed in the adjacent Via del Corso and also near Largo Goldoni, where the protesters erected improvised barricades sheltered from which they launched blunt objects at the address of the Forces of Order. On the occasion the assaults, as the live television images showed, were contained with the use of tear gas, special means, hydrants; it was necessary to resort to lightening charges to disperse the most excited demonstrators when their attempts to break through were more intense and dangerous. In the end, 41 wounded were counted - as I said - among the police forces, 11 of whom belonged to the Capitoline police station, 21 to the mobile department of Rome, 3 to the Carabinieri's weapon, 6 to the Finance Guard. On the occasion of the clashes, six other people were arrested, five of them for violence, resistance and aggravated injuries to the public officer and one for personal injuries aggravated by the use of an improper weapon. The security mechanism which protected the most representative institutional bodies and those of the national government and Parliament has, therefore, faced a situation which, by size, intensity and duration, has had no precedent. The day of October 9 ended by recording at the emergency room of the Policlinico di Roma an additional episode related to the disorders that occurred in the afternoon. Around 24 o'clock, some of Paolo Marchetti's family members, a protester who was left in the taffle and subjected to triage for the treatment of the case, tried to reach their relative, who, after reporting that he was not vaccinated, had also refused to submit to the swab. The relatives of the Marchetti, in the address of the sanitary staff, also attempted a forceful access to the emergency room, failed thanks to the intervention of the state police officers, occasionally present on site for the necessary medical care determined by the accident shortly before. At that juncture, the same protester was excandescence, assaulting the nursing staff and pushing a health worker who tried to stop him. The Marchetti then moved away from the hospital together with his family; Digos is carrying out an investigation to evaluate the criminal aspects of the conducts that came to prominence during the episode, which did not involve the devastation of health clubs, as recalled by some newspapers. I now come to report on the events that took place last Saturday in Milan. In the early afternoon, around 4 p.m., a large number of protesters gathered in Piazza Fontana protesting against the introduction of green certifications. The composition of the participants was, as usual, very varied, with the most substantial part lacking a precise connotation and with the presence of a group of about 80 people related to the anarchist area. The initiative saw the immediate intervention of the police forces, which have arranged to set up barriers on the main exit routes from the square, warning the participants that the same initiative could continue only in static form and the legal consequences of non-compliance with these indications. The demonstration, which saw the initial participation of a few thousand people, already around 17 reached 3,000 units. Shortly afterward, the protesters, interlocating with those responsible for public order, expressed their intention to move towards the labor chamber, but it was categorically ruled out that this destination could be included in any dynamic form of protest. At 5.30 pm, the demonstrators moved towards Piazza Duomo, where in the meantime they had protected the most sensitive points, then continuing to Piazza San Babila and Corso Venezia, until reaching Piazza Oberdan. At that juncture, with additional contingents of public force, coordinated by officials, the headquarters of the newspaper Libero was also protected, which had already been contested in previous similar demonstrations. It must be said that the initiative, meanwhile, saw the participants increase, gathering about 8,000 units at that time. It is at this stage that a scattered group of anarchist militants tried to continue towards Corso Buenos Aires. However, this sudden deviation was faced and prevented, thanks to the sending of a further police contingent, remained on site until the complete passage of the protesters. At the same time, about 80 anarchists, belonging to the social center Telos of Saronno, reached the head of the procession, to attempt a further detour to the headquarters of the Lombardy Region. In this case too, however, they were promptly blocked, while in the meantime the institutional seat was protected by a special garrison. Even later, the protesters, with repeated attempts to divert the procession, tried to address other objectives, including the headquarters of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), the Chamber of Labour, the court and Assolombarda. Also these continuous and repeated maneuvers, which intended to drag the police forces towards a scenario of urban guerrilla, were contained and rejected, thanks to a considerable expenditure of energy necessary to protect all the various possible objectives, including that of the Central Station, properly guarded. The events in Milan, which lasted several hours, have created a prolonged situation of discomfort to the citizenship both for the vehicular block, which at certain times has compromised the circulation, and for the climate of tension that has affected the main streets of the center. During the event two arrests were carried out in flagrant for aggravated resistance to the public official, for which validation has already taken place, as well as eight arrests for identification for as many subjects investigated for crimes of private violence, interruption of public service and lack of notice of demonstration. I inform you that any liability will also be determined with regard to 66 additional persons, whose position is currently being examined by the judicial authority. With regard to what happened yesterday morning in Trieste, I think we need a preliminary clarification. The manifestation was preceded by an intense activity of confrontation and mediation that has seen engaged, for several days, the prefect of Trieste, the president of the local harbour authority in a strenuous attempt to avert that the initiative of block of the activities of the Julian port of call is implemented and this in consideration of the serious damages that would have suffered not only that important site of the logistics, but also the entire productive and distributive supply chain that is connected to it. The initiative had been assumed by the coordination of port workers Trieste that it has, moreover, a representation of the minority workers and has been immediately object of instrumental adhesions from ideologicalized environments, in particular of the antagonistic left, although a marginal presence of the radical right has not been missed. The latter, which makes us reflect on that political-ideological transversality of the non-green pass protest, capable of bringing together formations and groups also opposed to the common objective of violent opposition to the institutions and measures of health prevention. I would also like to point out that the proclamation of the strike for five days, i.e. from 15 to 20 October, had been the subject of a communication by the guarantee committee for the implementation of the strike in the essential public services, which had revealed its illegality, both in terms of non-compliance with the notice period and of non-compliance with the rule of objective rarefacetion, foreordained to avoid serious prejudice to the continuity of the service and its repercussions on users. Despite the call of the prefect of Trieste to the obvious illegitimacy of the strike and to the implications of illiceity that were connected to it, from 15 October has been implemented a garrison to the passage 4 of Pier VII of the Port of Giuliano, that has seen in its maximum tip the presence of 8.000 demonstrators. Thanks, however, to the use of the other available passages, the harbour activities - to which the vast majority of the workers in disagreement with the protest has been able to access - have not suffered a blockage and have continued to carry out regularly, albeit recording some criticalities. The presence to Trieste - become pole of attraction of the protest against the green pass - of thousands of demonstrators, coming also from other Regions of Italy, has continued also on the days of Saturday 16 and Sunday 17, in fact preventing to beyond 700 heavy means to reach the harbour area in order to carry out the operations of cargo and unloading, as well as to carry out the disembarkation of the goods from a ship docked to the same Pier VII. Against this situation, on the afternoon of Sunday, October 17, the prefect of Trieste has called an urgent committee for public order and security, in the presence of the local summits of the public security, the police forces and the harbour authority as well as the prosecutor of the Republic. It was shared in that place to carry out for the next morning the eviction of the passage 4, in consideration of the inconveniences already accused and destined to worsen. At 8.30 am on Monday 18, therefore, the operations of clearing of the affected port area have begun and, despite the repeated invitation of the manager of the public order service to free the site, the protesters have improvised a sit-in, blocking the advancement of men and means and have also refused the proposal to move to another square in order to continue in that center the protest. In times of greater tension, in which the clear danger of a degeneration of the situation of public order was foreshadowed, it was necessary to resort to the use of hydrants and tear gas, in order to overcome the resistance opposed by the most excited protesters. A technical and operational intervention was used, which had characteristics similar to those already illustrated in relation to the facts of Rome, which occurred near Palazzo Chigi and Montecitorio. Even during the most excited phases, the confrontation with the demonstrators has been supported with moderation and mode of containment of the force, as evidenced by the fact that despite the presence of thousands of people, the great part completely foreign to the harbour workers, have not recorded that very few cases of malore - only three - between the participants due to the state of panic for the fight. Three mobile operators reported minor contusions. Following the eviction of the harbour area, the protest, with the presence of about 200 demonstrators, has engaged also the adjacent zones to the port and the city center in which, for some hours of the afternoon, taffles have been recorded with the Police forces to whose address stones and bottles have been launched. To the state are referred to the judicial authority four persons for the offences of interruption of public service and incitement to disobey the laws, as well as for failure to announce manifestation. Investigation activities are under way to identify any other perpetrators of criminal conduct. In the evening of yesterday a delegation of the committee of coordination harbour workers of Trieste along with other representatives of the variegated world of the no green passes have been received from the prefect. On that occasion it was asked to have an encounter with a representative of the Government in front of the commitment not to re-propose the block of the harbour activities, to free Piazza Unità of Italy, where in the meantime a garrison had been established, and to move in an area of the old port. After a short time the availability of Minister Patuanelli was communicated, supported obviously by the maintenance of the commitments entered into. I inform that currently the harbour area of Trieste is returned fully accessible and that no criticality is recorded in the activities of the port of call. The defence of public order has always met a strict and delicate commitment. It has become so particularly in this difficult period, in which the protest ended up threateningly investing almost every area: political and trade union such as health and school, bringing out new subjects to protect and new sensitive objectives to protect. It also highlights the challenging character of this protest, which intends not to stop despite the calls for moderation and to continue in excess to achieve its purpose, organizing garrisons, torchlights and sit-ins. The goal we must set ourselves is to guide the country out of the pandemic, without the effervesscences of conflict producing deep traumas or wounds. The trend of the demonstrations that took place over the last weekend makes it impossible to lower the guard in any way and indeed leads to maintaining constant maximum attention, in order to ensure that the tranquility of the national community is not disturbed. The instrument for achieving this objective is to ensure the necessary balance between the right to express one's dissent and the protection of citizens' rights of freedom, in strict compliance with constitutional principles. I guarantee, in my responsibility as Minister of the Interior, in line with the values that have accompanied my long experience at the service of the Republic, that all citizens can be sure that these two rights will always be protected in compliance with the democratic principles that are at the basis of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u8	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u9	Mr. Minister, your arguments have not been convincing at all. After pompously sponsoring a demonstration that declared itself anti-fascist, the government went to Trieste in a completely opposite dress. The hydrants and tear gas that struck peaceful protesters confirmed the birth of a new regime. You, Minister, wanted to avoid unrest in Rome, chose not to block the road to Forza Nuova when this was essential, saying that you fear consequences on public order, but, both in Rome and Trieste, the police intervened without hesitation with charges and tear gas on a crowd of mythical protesters. So, if on the one hand we did not move a finger to avoid in Piazza del Popolo the fascist infiltrations that had foretold the devastation of the headquarters of the CGIL, in Trieste we saw scenes worthy of an authoritarian regime, with the police in anti-riot estate pointing the hydrants and throwing tear gas against unarmed citizens, who claimed only the right to manifest. Evidently, the infiltrations of the unimpededed subversive right were functional to the discrediting of the whole square and the entire position of the protesters no green pass, but the people did not fall into the trap and immediately returned to the streets to make their voices feel peacefully. Yet in Trieste there was no hesitation in brutally dissolving a garrison of workers who asked nothing else but the lifting of a discriminatory measure, which limits fundamental rights, risking retaliation and sanctions. Of the events of Trieste I am not surprised by the complicit silence of those parties who are loyal to soulless neoliberalism, which does not love the people, the respect of constitutional rights and workers, of which Draghi is a leading exponent. What saddens me most of all is the coexistence of those who professed to be different and said that they wanted to restore rights to the weak and defenceless sections of the population, marginalizing the action of strong powers and economic and financial lobbying. I seriously fear that in this country the practice of hiding policies to the direct benefit of a small social class behind the mantle of identity has become established. In this context, the entire democratic system is under attack. The development of the role of Parliament, a body that merely ratified the choices of the Government, and the management of the demonstrations in Rome and Trieste are only sad, but striking examples. There is only one road for you, Minister, after the events of Rome and Trieste: resignation. The stakes at this historic moment are very high: we are called to decide which social model we want for us and for our children in the near future and therefore we must choose which side to stand and resist again against any abuse in peaceful and non-violent forms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u10	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group obviously takes this opportunity to condemn the very serious events that have taken place on Saturday 9 October in Rome, the aggression and occupation at the headquarters of the CGIL, the initiatives and violence of Forza Nuova, as well as all the violence that has occurred also in Milan, of which we have heard today, whose protagonists were the anarchist groups and social centres. We have heard your reconstruction, Minister, and I am surprised, as I have been able to point out to you several times also informally, the impunity that some subjects have enjoyed, especially on the Roman square. The protagonists you mentioned several times had been the subject of a report by the police authorities and certain areas of the judiciary, while other relevant areas had not taken the necessary action. Even the protagonist, whom you quoted, years ago was surprised with a large amount of cocaine, a significant amount that was considered for personal use, although it was a really "stupendous" amount! So I wonder why this underestimation and impunity of some groups and some realities. [[Applause]] This also concerns the Roman judiciary, it must be said; impunity that other sectors of the left have also had. We have no doubt about the matrix of what happened in Rome and the prevailing responsibility of neo-fascist and extreme right groups, who have found the opportunity of a vast audience, which was obviously not all composed of their adherents (they do not have so many) and who have been able in some way to orient, exaggerate and exploit. I believe, Minister, that it is right to see it at 360 degrees; that is what the Forza Italia Group has said these days and I think it will also say tomorrow. You mentioned the 41 police wounded by extremists in Rome. I want to remember with them - and thank those members of the Forces of Order - the hundreds of policemen and police wounded in Val di Susa in these years. [[Applause]] There is a weekly stilicide, which I do not see calling for dissolutions, which then the competent authorities will decide whether to be implemented or feasible; we have no veil against this and we must not defend anyone. A little underestimation - let us say this - there has been and I thank you for an honest reconstruction, because I understand the difficulties of your office. Being a Minister of the Interior is a heavy task and you have held so many positions I think you have seen it in these months. But I certainly urge the Government not to underestimate any situation. This summer, too, we have had the opportunity to discuss, both in public and in private, rave parties and other events; we believe that the state must act firmly and decisively in all circumstances. And we will be with the Government; if there is firmness and determination, not only will we not make motions of distrust, but we will support the action of the Government of legality and the fight against impunity. [[Applause]] I'm also saying this about Trieste. I have not yet understood the instrumentalization to Trieste, from some harbours, of the story of the green pass and anything else. It had nothing to do with it; it was not a trade union struggle of workers for their jobs, which we would have respected. [[Applause]] It was a performance, a bit maniac, honestly. For pity's sake, everyone can do what they want; but then there is the law and therefore I believe that the intervention was necessary. We invite the government not to underestimate anything. I would ask the Minister and also the President-in-Office of the Council to accept a proposal that Forza Italia has been doing for a long time: a majority meeting with the relevant ministers on issues of public order and immigration. [[Applause]] We appreciate the President-in-Office of the Council, but put some face on the issues of immigration and security. It is a government born to vaccinate and to make plans for Europe, but these are also issues. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that we will present proposals for greater protection of the police forces, which cannot be attacked. [[Applause]] Today, during a demonstration - I have finished, Mr President - the policeman who reacts, perhaps excessively, is being taken up with a mobile phone. But they didn't show that that cop, ladies and gentlemen, had smashed their noses a few minutes before. All the images must be shown, including those of the assaults on the policemen and the police. [[Applause]] Then, if the reactions are improper, they will be sanctioned; but it is not that you can use, during the demonstrations, tools from journalists or demonstrators to show some things and others not. More control is also needed on social media, Minister. Perhaps some apparatus must be modernised; the technical tools are there and no one should be censored, but those who use means of progress and communication to foment violence... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u12	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mrs Minister, I would like to begin by declaring my solidarity and solidarity with the Group to which I belong, the 5 Star Movement, with the Forces of Order, which have suffered attacks and injuries (the number was mentioned earlier). We are absolutely on the side of the Forces of Order. [[Applause]] At the same time, I want to express solidarity with all those peaceful demonstrators who have exercised their constitutionally guaranteed right. We are in a democratic Republic and therefore everyone must be able to demonstrate and carry out their voices, even if in particular we may disagree. I would also like to express my and the Group's solidarity with the CGIL, which is a symbol of freedom and democracy. The attack that he suffered really remembers terrible and dark eras, in which were assaulted the chambers of work and the unions and attacked the workers. We don't want to go back to those periods and eras, so we need to be careful and analyze what's going on right now. That at the headquarters of the CGIL is a clear attack of fascist matrix and I do not say it, but the same elements that have brought to completion that vile attack, which are openly declared fascist. Sometimes they call themselves fascists of the third millennium or simply fascists: they tell them so. Well, we should not allow this desire for squadrism again and this desire to impose one's ideas with violence. If you want to explain your ideas, you can do so by respecting the limits and principles of our Constitution, never by using violence. I must also stress that, in recent months, a substantial part of the right, which is also present in Parliament, has, in my view, been blowing fire. I remember the words that have been repeated thousands of times, in which we shouted at the health dictatorship and in which the masks that we all carry were still today called muzzles. That, from my point of view, was a strongly wrong attitude, which had a clear impact on some groups, who are looking for nothing more than an opportunity to acquire a consensus in the country that they do not have. I remember the first demonstrations shortly after the lockdown, organized by Forza Nuova and other small groups of extreme right, in which there were 20 or 30 people. It is clear that having blown on the fire in that way for so long has led to today's situation. I believe that, if you want to be a responsible political force, which obeys our democratic rules, you cannot one day wear the police sweatshirt and the next day talk, for example, about the strategy of tension put in place by police forces. So, Mrs. Minister, thank you for sweeping away this paradoxical interpretation, by some of the right-wing parties, shouting at the strategy of tension and the desire to put the country in a certain situation. Madam Minister, you have reminded us that since 2020 there have been about 6,000 demonstrations and that only about 3% of cases have been cases of violence: this is therefore a very low number. We must say, however, always to be clear with ourselves, that in the attack on the CGIL there have been very serious flaws in the security system and therefore, especially in view of important international appointments for our country, such as that of the G20, it is absolutely necessary to protect the right to manifest peacefully, in order to prevent any form of violence, both the fascist one, and that of any other origin. In conclusion, Mr President, the 5 Star Movement calls for the immediate price of swabs to be reduced and for the proportionality of the measures taken within a few weeks in the light of the new epidemiological situation and the vaccination trend to be assessed. We consider these assessments to be absolutely essential, precisely to restore peace of mind to the country and to take into account how the pandemic and the contrast measures implemented are going. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u14	Senator Dessì is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I asked to speak in extremis because some of your words really hurt me. She managed with a few passages of her speech to offend in the first place the police forces that she represents, because she cannot call a shock absorber tester a policeman who is doing his duty and therefore does in full capacity the work of infiltrated in a demonstration that has within her criminal forces. He's a cop who makes himself believable in the eyes of the protesters. It's not believable five minutes later while he's beating up an unusual boy on the ground who's already immobilized. So you should explain the reasons for the second stage of that cop's action. That demonstration, as you said very well, has been monopolized by 200 criminals who have nothing to do with any political force or any political action. I think fascism, even the most extreme, has nothing to do with an invaded cocaine addict who should have been in prison for years. I hope, Minister, that after this happens next time you will take him and his friends the day before any manifestation that is supposed to be peaceful, in order to defend the rights to work and to move to national territory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u16	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u17	Madam President, Mrs Ministro, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for her presence in this House because it is extremely important to give proper weight to the events that have taken place. I renew, since all or almost all political forces have already done so, and I join in the unanimous condemnation expressed for the events of 9 October. Just to clear out any misunderstanding, I want to express full solidarity, as we have already done, also to the CGIL, in particular to President Landini, for the squadrista assault carried out against their Roman headquarters. We must associate ourselves, and I feel the duty to do so, expressing solidarity with all the Forces of the Order for the self-denial and the sense of duty they have manifested. We cannot forget, in fact, that what happens, even episodes that may seem to cross their competences, are the result of the tension that exists at that time. As has been said before, when shooting, we should always take up the whole episode and the context in which events happen and not frame instead the reaction of a single policeman who may have been subjected to acts of violence just before with his colleagues. This must be said in defence of the work of the Forces of Order which, daily, in defense of the institutions, endanger their lives for all of us, for the population and for the defence of democratic values that we are obliged to protect. The events of last October, as you mentioned in a very comprehensive report, have been marked by unprecedented violence and gravity. What should have been a peaceful demonstration against the obligation of the green pass for workers has turned into a real squadrista attack due to the presence of subjects belonging to Forza Nuova and other organizations known to be extreme right. First the clashes with the police, then the numerous episodes of violence that culminated with the damage of the headquarters of the CGIL of which I spoke, and also with the aggressions to the medical staff of the Policlinico, where one of the participants in the protest was conducted in state of arrest. I was particularly impressed by two elements of these facts. The first is the targeted attack on an institution, the headquarters of the CGIL, which represents the workers. It is clear that that attack wanted to arrive and arrived at the heart of the country, at work and at an institution that protects workers. Democracy and the protection of workers, however, are no small thing to be dealt with lightly. I believe this to be an unequivocal testament to the peaceful demonstration that took place last Saturday and that has seen the protagonists - precisely - of many workers, the main trade union acronyms, many political parties and - as I said - the workers who have once again joined together with all of us around the concept of democracy. We participated in those demonstrations and we were there precisely because gestures like those that happened on October 9 are in stark contrast to the democratic spirit that leads our country. The second element that struck me a lot is the modus operandi implemented during the disorders. The words that have been said "bring us from Landini or we will take him" are of unheard of gravity and should really make us reflect on what the ideology is and on what the intentions of these people are. I must say that the methods you described very well, with which the representatives of Forza Nuova were able to enter the headquarters of the CGIL, were just as violent. Without fear of being denied, I dare to say that these episodes are to be framed in the canon of armed squadronism, of which Fascism used (unfortunately we have sad memories) when it intervened to devastate the houses of the people and the union offices. Without going into the matter of the dissolution of organizations of a subversive nature on which we will be called to discuss tomorrow, I would really like to stress and highlight the fact that this was a subject of exceptional political and legal importance, which is going to affect at a particular historical moment in the heart of the democratic institutions of this country. I can't help but think that these episodes occurred when the country gave signs of restart. I cannot help but think that this attack on the heart of the institutions, especially on one of the main expressions of our democracy, that is, the work, at the very moment when the country gave clear signs of profound recovery, through the extraordinary action of our Government. I was hoping there would be a unanimous condemnation of the violence that has taken place, so it was not. I am sorry to have to point out one thing: I do not usually criticize my colleagues' statements in a gratuitous way, because I have extreme respect for everyone's ideas, but frankly they leave me very perplexed and I want to think they are the result of poor information, given also the young age. Who like me has white hair now knows what it means to talk about tension strategy and knows what it meant in our country to face that period of tension strategy. In fact, to bring back to memory in a completely reckless and inappropriate way that terminology and that period means to have no respect for those who at that time gave their lives and allowed to arrive at the moment when we are today, with our own actions, with the defense at the cost of their lives. As I said - and I repeat this - the Forces of Order, whatever they may be, daily endanger their lives in our interests, in the interests of the whole of citizenship. However, it is clear that those who speak in vain - and I have the term perhaps unkind - of tension strategy do not know what they are talking about and I have no idea that they are launching themselves in statements of this kind just to try to cover up what actually happened on 9 October. In the face of these facts, our condemnation is clear. I repeat once again, after repeating it a thousand times in this House, that first of all our Constitution comes, that we are obliged to observe and defend it at any cost and in any way. Whoever comes out of the democratic perimeter, inherent in our constitutional dictation, using violence as a way to make his voice heard cannot find space and we must close that space and all together we must isolate these people. The facts of October 9 must be condemned. On the criminal profiles of the matter will decide the judiciary as it is correct, but it is time, in here, to decide what we want to do with these people who are really undermining or trying to undermine our democratic system. Personally, I am convinced that we will succeed once again, because I believe that the democratic conscience we have developed, especially after the lead years, is absolutely alive. However, I believe that it is appropriate to take the necessary measures to isolate these people and, above all, to dissolve those movements which make simple vocabulary of the Constitution and democracy without any will for implementation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u18	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u19	Mr Lamorgese, first of all, I must tell you that we do not allow you to exploit and hide behind the Forces of Order, behind which you hide your responsibilities, because this is profoundly unfair. [[Applause]] The forces of order have all our solidarity both because they have been left alone, and - let me say this - because they have a minister like you as a contact person. [[Applause]] Mr Lamorgese, today we must ascertain that unfortunately the pathology from which this wonderful nation is affected can be called a borderline disorder of personality or - to say it in a clearer way - a split personality. Otherwise, Minister Lamorgese, we would not understand why your Ministry suffers from this specific disease. Wouldn't explain otherwise the two faces of the Ministry that you show every day. On the one hand she showed a face when she couldn't stop an illegal rave done on private land and on the other hand showed us another face, when she used drones to chase runners, all this while the catering exercises were closed, while you studied this measure of the green pass, without which - you know very well - you can't accompany children to school, you can't drink coffee at the bar. That face, Minister, that in such a torn and suffering nation has allowed thousands of Italian and foreign boys to gather in an illegal rave, in that case really without any kind of security, using any kind of drugs on the market. Your ministry showed that face when you didn't stop that rave even when some kids died, because you will remember very well that it took you a few days. The two sides of your ministry would not be explained otherwise. Because next to the rave and the locks for Covid, something certain... [[Comments.]] Okay, but it's not important.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u20	Please, there's no need to argue. Have Senator Garnero Santanché continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u21	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). As I said, alongside the rave and measures for the Covid, Minister, the landings of immigrants, on the other hand, never stopped them, in spite of the emergency health, in spite of all the measures that the Italians naturally have to follow. However, you know very well that many immigrants do not want to take the swab, nor the vaccine, but for them, as they say, everything is fine, Madame Marquise. On the other hand, it is not good for Italians, to whom you grant nothing, while you have a special sympathy for immigrants. Perhaps, then, he does not even realize the social emergency that Italians are experiencing, the absence of work and the problem of the suburbs. The social pact has been broken with citizens who feel abandoned, also because you welcome - or rather abandon - immigrants in the outskirts. This is the reason for the fear of Italians. Then, of course, there is the face of the Ministry, which you represented very well in the Chamber when you answered the questions of Giorgia Meloni about the aggression at the headquarters of the CGIL, to which - I repeat - all our solidarity goes. The procession had been authorized to arrive at the union headquarters and she knew that those who led it had restrictive forms and the Daspus and therefore had no right to be there, not hidden among the crowds, but even on stage. You also knew that the risk of degeneration in acts of violence was very high. You, Minister, have therefore chosen to leave seven policemen to take a stand in front of the CGIL. You, Minister, chose not to protect the union headquarters. You, Minister, have chosen not to protect those who have the sacred right to demonstrate peacefully for their freedom. We'd like to ask you who could use that accident. To what propaganda? Maybe the same one that, on Saturday afternoon, in the square, hoisted communist flags and closed fists? I am referring to the flags of the worst regime of the twentieth century: communism, Minister. Then, however, it has another face and, therefore, in the port of Trieste, even if there has been no type of accident, it could not and cannot be manifested. Manifesting against the green pass (which does not mean being against vaccines) remains, however you think, an inalienable right. What does the Ministry do? Send the hydrants and tear gas. I ask my colleagues: if we had sent the hydrants and tear gas, what would have happened? Unfortunately, or fortunately that culture does not belong to us; to you belongs the culture of hydrants and tear gas. [[Applause]] So, here's the hard fist, yes, elsewhere not. Did the rave boys scare you more or less, Minister? Let us understand. We are a nation in which, every three Fridays, there is an air and transport strike because protest and strikes are a right. Or has something changed and I am no longer a right to strike or protest? Can you explain to us what the rules are? There is in fact the violent protest on which you close your eyes until it degenerates (in fact, go even further) and then there is the other protest, peaceful, that must be stopped with tear gas. But you must be ashamed of how you are reducing this nation! The strike is legitimate if it is done for working hours, while it is illegitimate and the hydrants are fine if you think you have a right to work even without green passes. Tell us what the rules of engagement are, Minister, because we have some confusion. This is a government that mixes everything, talks about support for the elderly and then cuts pensions. It is a majority that certifies with numbers the failure of citizenship income, but then does not abolish it; a majority - let us be honest - who would like to get to the vaccination obligation, but then does not have the political courage to impose it. This is what you are doing: you are hiding behind the green pass, like the blanket of Linus; the green pass, in fact, does not make you face the problems of Italians who are others and not those we have heard about these days. I would like to know, Minister, what is your face today? Do you go yelling at schoolboys who throw paper on the floor in front of the schools and maybe pat the drug dealers? What's the look on your face today, Minister Lamorgese? Be clear once and for all, with words of truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u23	Madam President, Mrs Minister, thank you for your timely and comprehensive report. On the other hand, his detractors had to talk about raves, immigrants, Linus and other amenities, because it is difficult to deny the things he said. I want to start with a figure, which has also been mentioned by you in your report: since the beginning of the pandemic, more than 5,700 square demonstrations have taken place in our country, of which 3,700 have been held only this year. Almost all of them were carried out without any problems, guaranteeing the possibility and the right to demonstrate to everyone, without it leading to violence or harm. If we compare this data with what has happened in many other countries, for example from France where the management of the squares has been much more complicated and the incidents much more frequent, I believe that we must be grateful to the Forces of Order and to all the apparatuses of the State, that with balance have managed to manage to the best situations often difficult. I don't say this in order not to face or minimize what happened or to hide the assault on the CGIL or the recent episodes of Trieste and Milan. I remember this because, in the face of a general capacity on the part of the Forces of the Order to guarantee public order in a difficult phase, the facts of Rome are being used instrumentally - we have heard it now - to attack daily an authority of the State, the minister of the Lamorgese interior. It throws discredit on public apparatuses that for two years have worked well, with balance, to defend the citizens and guarantee the right to manifest in an increasingly cohesion climate, more and more of peace. And this is done by risking confusing the responsibilities of the violent and those of the Forces of Order. The continuing attacks on the Minister are so instrumental that I wonder if they are not helping to avoid dealing with what we all have to do: to take the concrete and unambiguous distance from the violent, all the violent. [[Applause]] The narration that, always to attack the Minister, has been tried to impose and that tells that it is the Minister of the Interior who decides the movements and choices of the Forces of order in the square, to command the square, is clearly false; I have heard it tell even now. I remember only a dramatic precedent of a minister who followed from the headquarters of the police station a demonstration: it was the G8 of Genoa. For the rest, we all know that that of Rome was an unauthorized demonstration and that the responsibility for the choices that are made to ensure the development of the demonstrations is of those who command the Forces of Order in the square and is able to better assess the situation than anyone else. Today the Minister has reiterated the reasons that have led the leaders of the chain of command to make the choices - some of which questionable - that have been made in Rome and that have led also - we must say - to defend Palazzo Chigi, to defend the institutions, but also to expose to an excessive, unacceptable extent, the headquarters of the CGIL, until allowing the unacceptable invasion of the same. Solidarity with the union from this point of view is not enough. We want to ask the Minister to move forward and clarify what has happened, responsibility and error, if there have been any, because this is what we need to avoid repeating them, knowing that the difficult phase, the tension phase in this country is probably not over. If there have been errors, it must be emphasized and even more so, Mrs. Minister, it serves to understand why it was not possible to predict and prevent what happened. We want clarity on the facts, as you - you have explained - are trying to do, but to say that we are faced with a will of the Government to provoke accidents in order to fuel tensions is serious, unacceptable and unprovable. [[Applause]] Once again, by doing so, in the name of propaganda, we are questioning the credibility of the institutions, which is fundamental at this time. The law enforcement forces are offended, because you're not with them. We do not express solidarity with the Forces of Order if we then think that they are part of a plan that wants to fuel tensions. [[Applause]] The tensions of these days must be faced, confronting the reasons of those who protest, but isolating and pursuing the violent. They are the neo-fascist organizations that have infiltrated and used the square of Rome, the enemy to beat. There are those who want to take advantage of the anger or disorientation of some to hit the institutions; they are the enemies, certainly not the Minister Lamorgese, who continues to work in the interest of the country. On this there can be no ambiguity, shyness or various other things and we must not lower our guard; on the contrary, from the Chambers today a clear message must come out to the operators of the Forces of Order, who sacrifice themselves every day to guarantee the right to manifest in security, peacefully. We must give the message that all institutions are at their side, alongside peaceful demonstrators, alongside the Forces of Order. And a clear message must also reach those who want to make legitimate protests an opportunity for violence: the institutions are stronger than them and will be able to stand together to fight with determination and balance all violent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u25	Mr President, members of the Government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive and comprehensive information and, on behalf of the Senators and Senators of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Groups, I would like to express our solidarity with the 41 agents who were wounded in the clashes in Rome on 9 October. Ten days have passed since that October 9, but that date will remain marked in our history. It had already happened a hundred years ago that fascist squadrons besieged and devastated the labor chambers. Then the State did not oppose and there was the march on Rome and the fascist regime. Even so, Gaetano Salvemini, as has been mentioned, only with the murder Matteotti realized how for years he underestimated that tremendous danger to democracy. Today the reaction was, with the arrests, but also with the extraordinary popular response of last Saturday in Rome promoted by the unions. Well done President Mattarella to highlight the country's strong reaction to the assault at the union headquarters. I am well aware that today's agenda does not include the request for the dissolution of fascist organizations, which we will discuss tomorrow, but you yourself, in your reconstruction of the fascist Saturday, provide us with the elements to support our request, which are strong in the transitional provision of the Italian Constitution. So, I'm coming to your information. The questions on 9 October are more than legitimate. It is clear, first of all, that something has not worked in the management of public order. There has been underestimation and, as a result, inadequacy on the part of the Forces of Order in dealing with precisely what you, hotly, have called subversive signals. You gave us the numbers on October 9th just now. You did not expect such a large participation in the event, because the other demonstrations of no green passes and no vax of previous Saturdays had not been so consistent. You expected 3,000-4,000 people: three times as many arrived and, therefore, the 840 men and women of the Forces of Order were insufficient. Piazza del Popolo was full this time. Piazza del Popolo was a mistake: too close to the palaces of the institutions. A year ago, before the green pass, in full pandemic and lockdown, Roberto Fiore, leader of Forza Nuova, today in prison, on the eve of the event in Naples, on 24 October 2020 wrote in a tweet: May the first spark of revolution be ignited in Naples against the health dictatorship. That same night Forza Nuova published photos of the town guerrilla: We in the street in Rome; from Naples the revolt started. Of course, it is true and indisputable that we have guaranteed freedom of expression. You mentioned 5,700 demonstrations, but in these months we must also remember the other violent episodes in the no vax and no green pass marches. For brevity I quote one: on August 28, in Rome, two demonstrations, the first in Piazza del Popolo and the other at the Mouth of Truth. In Piazza del Popolo, more than two hundred militants of Forza Nuova try to overcome the barrier of the Forces of Order, with charges of lightening to disperse the neo-fascists. Not to mention the gazebo destroyed in Milan by the 5 Star Movimento. And I would also like to mention the many journalists, who have our solidarity, who have been beaten and insulted in these demonstrations. Minister, these extreme right are fringes, we know, and they do not represent the entire no green pass movement. We would make a mistake to think that these squares should not be heard, because they express a social discomfort with which we have to deal. However, we cannot fail to stress the seriousness of the situation, with threats to political personalities and the scientific world engaged in the battle against the pandemic. Campaigns of hatred on social media, physical footsteps and threats, as happened to the infectious scientist Matteo Bassetti, chief of San Martino di Genova. These distinctions, even within the majority, this riding the protest by the right, are dangerous. There is no health dictatorship to be opposed; there is no freedom trampled on. What happened on October 9 in Rome marks a point of no return. In Corso d'Italia there was no disoriented people, afraid of the pandemic. On October 9, on the stage of Piazza del Popolo, there was the special guard Giuliano Castellino. On October 9 there were Roberto Fiore and Luigi Aronica, among the founders of the NAR of Fioravanti and Mambro. We all listened to Giuliano Castellino enlisting the crowd and announcing the objective of the CGIL: how could it have been that it was not stopped? Today we know, for example, that the prosecutor had requested in August to arrest him for continuing violations of the obligations imposed by the surveillance. We also learned that, however, the judge had said no. That's why Castellino was in that square. But why wasn't the CGIL arrested after hearing it? And why was the headquarters of the CGIL, a sensitive target, not well guarded by the Forces of Order to reject the assault? You spoke, if I remember correctly, of 20 men in front of the headquarters of the CGIL and there were 1,500 tumultuous, so you defined them in your information. Certainly, in that context, the arrest of the exponent of Forza Nuova could have provoked a violent reaction; in those circumstances the rule of harm reduction is valid, it is true, but we cannot fail to reiterate here that the assault on the CGIL was an attack on our democracy and our Constitution, which is anti-fascist. The leader of the Brothers of Italy has argued that there is a direction of the State that would make us go back to the dark years, to the strategy of tension, that Forza Nuova was deliberately left in the bridle loose: it is a clumsy attempt to throw away, a far caciara, as they say in Rome. We, on the other hand, are on the issue; we express solidarity with the police. I take back an article by Paolo Berizzi, the journalist of the Republic under escort threatened by the neo-fascists: it was October 10 of a year ago - writes Berizzi - when the leaders of Forza Nuova, together with no vax and no mask, gave life to an executive who in their plans should have replaced the Government Count. An initiative that, reread now, after the violent action of October 9, with the attack on the palaces of the institutions and the intention of the protesters no green pass to occupy Palazzo Chigi and Parliament - as then they did in the seat of the first Italian union - sounds almost prophetic, and however rather disturbing. For this reason, Minister Lamorgese, I renew our solidarity, asking her at the same time for a change of pace. Freedom of expression must be guaranteed, but there can be no legitimacy for the violent and fascists of this millennium. There is a first 9 October and there must be one after 9 October: to underestimate those movements would be a tragic replica of moments already lived and our institutions cannot, they must not make such mistakes for which they would bear all the responsibilities. Long live the CGIL, live the union, live the anti-fascist Italy! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u26	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lamorgese, we will not be asking you to resign, but this does not prevent us from expressing doubts about the management of public order during the final phase of the election campaign. We have also appreciated your taking of action in your information, Mrs. Minister, but at the same time we wonder how much responsibility it is to be ascribed to the statements of some political leaders who have blown on fire to the point of making protagonists, despite them, also the Forces of Order in the electoral competition. To those women and to those men in uniform goes our solidarity; without if and without but, we are at your side, from Trieste, passing through Milan, to the headquarters of the CGIL in Rome. [[Applause]] We are at the side of those who guarantee freedom and rights for all, but this must be done in the wake of democratic rules. Madam Minister, allow me to tell you that, in the face of such solidarity, I hope that the words will follow. It finally takes place at the closure of the national contract and adapts the means allocated to the Forces of Order. In short, the functional guarantees are given: today a carabiniere who goes to trial has no legal protection and this is unfair compared to what happens to other servants of the State. On the merits of management, Mrs. Minister, there have been too many flaws prior to the demonstration in Rome and too many during its course. There were only seven agents in defense of the CGIL headquarters, despite the threatening announcements of characters too well known to be underestimated and even free to circulate. Those images of our beaten cops are a wound that harms the dignity of our democracy. [[Applause]] This was an assault not only of neo-fascists, but also of small fringes that have consciously abandoned democratic protest to give rise to criminal acts. The wisdom and cold blood of our Forces of Order before this drift of violence have prevented us from escaping the dead. Politics must not pour gasoline on the fire, because the risk of a point of no return is around the corner. [[Applause]] But be careful, Mrs. Minister, not to catalogue with simplistic definitions the more than three million workers of our fellow citizens who have not vaccinated themselves, just because perhaps they do not believe in the mandatory green pass. The wide meshes between the green pass and the faculty of vaccination feed the narration of a government that acts in a pilatesque way, i.e. it does not assume the responsibility to make the vaccine compulsory. I want to make this clear: we reject these arguments. Thanks to vaccines and thanks to the green pass, Italy returns free and goes back to life, but nine million of our non-vaccine citizens ask the whole policy a surplus of analysis that cannot be archived with epithets or with the ban of the same protagonists. In terms of legality, allow me one last non-controversial consideration, Mrs. Minister. The demonstration organized by the CGIL in San Giovanni on the Saturday before the elections, then on the day of the electoral silence, creates a precedent, a derogation that has not even been put in place during the period of terrorism. [[Applause]] We have adhered to the spirit of the square against all forms of violence, but why not condemn even violent acts from the extreme left? [[Applause]] Why not condemn in that square the vandalism suffered by the Michetti committee with the star of the Red Brigades? Not even a word of condemnation came from that square. [[Applause]] Too easily, in our country, when you do not understand, do not share or simply do not appreciate, you resort to simplistic definitions. There are no easy solutions or definitions, it would be a single slogan and we will never speak for slogans. Let me remind you of a journalist (many have never spoken for slogans, but have been victims of shame, when they told the truth): I remember Giampaolo Pansa, who wrote the book "The blood of the defeated" (The blood of the defeated): here, those are brave men, who are not afraid to tell the truth. In conclusion, Mr President, the warning to the Government, but above all to the House, is this: let us unite, without Manichaean divisions, against all forms of violence, because the risk is that we will go out of control and create a climate that brings back the hands of time, to which we will never be resigned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u28	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u29	Mr President, I shall use even less than the ten minutes I have been given to avoid repetitions of several passages I have shared. I would like to focus on what was lacking in the intervention: no mention of self-criticism, with the discharge of responsibility - not only on this occasion, but also on others - on those underneath. It's a serious mistake, not to be made. I remember that ten days ago, no more, Senator Morra, President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, therefore not a passerby, said that in Italy often organized crime must be sought in prefectures. Oibò, as Minister of the Interior, I would have asked for either names or resignations immediately. It's been ten days. [[Applause]] Did you, Minister, prefect, guide and appoint the prefects and let someone who holds such an important position publicly state that in the prefectures there are mobsters and camorristes? [[Applause]] It's not normal. It is not the fault of the fascists: this has nothing to do with the New Force and the fascists. It is an issue that the Minister of the Interior, who deals with public security, and the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, who plays an important role, should clarify to this Senate, because as an Italian citizen, if in my prefecture of reference (that of Milan) they nest mobsters, I would like to know: so one of them is in the wrong place at the wrong time. I'll let you decide which one. [[Applause]] The friends on the left are spectacular. I thought for thirty seconds to your speeches, if Minister Salvini had been on the benches of the government: Minister Salvini allowed fascists, who could not be in the square, to announce the siege to the CGIL and then ordered the police not to intervene, allowing after an hour and a half the siege to the CGIL. Friends of the Democratic Party, something's not working. That idiot, that thug -- I don't even call him a fascist -- wasn't supposed to be in that square. [[Applause]] Why did you leave him? And it is not the fault of the Quaestors, of the Digos, of the prefects, of the police or of the carabinieri: if someone at the highest levels does his job well, honor to the merit. I'm not specifically talking about landings, reunions, baby gangs: they're happening in all kinds of ways. I am talking about what happened last week, which made us look petty worldwide. Minister, take your responsibilities. If you haven't figured out what was going on, it's serious. If you've figured it out and you've allowed it, it's even more serious. It's very simple. [[Applause]] If the Undersecretary with the delegation to the Services is unable to determine whether 1,000 or 15,000 people arrive in a square, it is a problem. If he understood it with our intelligence and didn't tell him, it's an even bigger problem. So you, Minister, have more than one open front on which to answer and it cannot be 10, 20 or 30 pages written with love to you public officials - they wrote to me too - to make what was a debâcle pass in the background: 41 wounded policemen are neither in heaven nor on earth. Mr Minister, ask for help from this House, from someone who can help you, and do not suffer from the presence of Parliament. [[Applause]] They do not isolate themselves in its offices, because unfortunately there are quaestors and prefects who feel lonely; there are police officers who, if they are not protected by the highest level of public security, do their work in a different spirit. If there are police officers isolated, unprotected, investigated and unprotected by their Minister, there is no guarantee of public order in this country. [[Applause]] Defend your men and women, don't dump them. [[Comments]] Yes, it is a shame, it is true, because we spoke for ten days of the fascist emergency, while the emergency of this country is work, work and more work. [[Applause]] If you can't isolate 20 morons, which everyone knows by name and surname, it means you can't do your job. They did not land from Mars; one of them has the electronic bracelet and the Daspus not to go to see Rome, however he enlisted 10,000 people in Piazza del Popolo. If you want to go to the stadium without the green pass, take it out by the ears and yet allow these thugs to set fire to a city. There's something that doesn't work, but we haven't heard a single word of self-criticism about it. [[Applause]] Let's hope it doesn't happen again. When Biden and the other world leaders arrive, I hope that there is no such approximation, this sloppyness and this inadequacy, because we cannot afford them. People expect certainty right now. Of course, those who do their work can make mistakes, for God's sake; but I like those who take responsibility for their actions and who do not hide behind twenty - five pages typed by the hands of others. Saturday morning I will go with absolute serenity to the court in Palermo to answer for what I did as Minister of the Interior [[Applause]] : I am proud of what I did as Minister of the Interior, because I chose not to turn on the other side. After Covid, I think that this role is even more delicate, so, Minister, I give you one advice: make your closeness felt to those who work not under you, but next to you. Never say: ask the prefect, ask the quaestor, ask the official, ask the public order officer of that square. But does it seem normal to you that there was a party and party demonstration on Saturday before the vote in Rome and that there were tears and hydrants on Monday with the urns open in Trieste? [[Applause.]] Not even in Chile and Venezuela, at open ballot boxes, there are party demonstrations and hydrants are used. We really try hard to try to make out, to cooperate and to listen, but you would have asked for the UN blue helmets to be sent to inverted parts. I don't know if you realize the hypocrisy on the left, the deep hypocrisy in your house. [[Applause.]] At least have the shame of not exaggerating. Good work, Minister, if you start acting as Minister, because we have not yet noticed it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u31	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Minister for her necessary speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the images of the assault at the national headquarters of the CGIL and the clashes with the Forces of Order in Trieste, Milan and the centre of Rome cannot leave any of us indifferent. The right to manifest one's own ideas can never degenerate into acts of aggression, intimidation and violence. The values of antifascism and resistance and the repudiation of authoritarian ideology are the foundation of our Constitution, born from a cross-cutting agreement between different political forces, based on principles expressed both in the XII transitional and final provision of the Constitution, which prohibits the reorganization in any form of the dissolved fascist party, and in the relative provision of implementation provided for by the so-called law Scelba, which has fully transposed this norm. This constitutional precept, by establishing an absolute and unconditional legal impossibility, prevents a movement formed and operating in violation of this prohibition from participating in political life in any form and affecting its free and democratic dynamics. The events of Saturday, October 9, culminated with the heinous attack on the oldest Italian trade union organization, the CGIL, represent an authentic attack on the democracy of our country, recalling that the unions are an expression of freedom and protection of the dignity of the worker. What has happened must impose a profound reflection on us all: it is necessary and no longer possible to postpone a strong and decisive intervention in dealing with an increasingly dangerous and too long undervalued phenomenon, reduced to trivial folklore. The security measures to be taken in order to prevent these dramatic events must be programmed in a precise and precise manner, involving all the forces of order, so as to prevent the danger of public safety, but above all that of individual policemen, present for reasons of work, and peaceful demonstrators themselves, also with the help of innovative technological tools. A thank you goes to the Forces of Order, who often face critical situations with scarce means, and to the health personnel, hero of this pandemic. It is necessary to use the existing legislation without delay, in order to finally dissolve the formations inspired by fascist and Nazi culture and history; it is necessary to give impetus to the knowledge of fascism, its origins and the tragedy that it represented together with Nazism, giving renewed vigour to the roots and spirit of our Constitution, spreading these principles in all fora and in all institutions, starting from schools. It is necessary with determination to have the courage to denounce this culture based on hatred, discrimination, intolerance and racism, which blows over social hardship and exploits it. [[Applause]] We must once again weave the threads of a regular democratic participation, in order to operate an organic reconstruction of the country, based on constitutional values, for which our constituent Fathers fought, for an idea of high public res, free from any electoral gain, rebuilding an effective network of universal rights and protections, restoring dignity to the humiliated, fragmented and divided work. No freedom of thought must be adopted to justify what has happened. That is why, Mrs Minister, I call on you and all the political forces in this House to pursue what is laid down in the constitutional dictation, taking all necessary measures to ensure higher levels of security, implementing the law enforcement agencies on the ground and, above all, promoting prevention, mediation and awareness-raising activities. It must be made for the defense of our... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u32	Senator Piarulli, I would remind you that you can hand over the remainder of your speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u33	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 28 October. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, at 9 a.m., provides for communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021. Starting at 2.30 p.m., motions will be discussed on initiatives to follow up the constitutional dictation on the prohibition of reorganization of the dissolved fascist party and motions on initiatives aimed at countering all forms of violence and totalitarianism. The debate on motions may continue, if necessary, at the sitting on Thursday 21 October. Tuesday, October 26, starting at 16.30, there will be a discussion of the decree-law on forest fires. The sitting does not include closing hours. Next week's schedule also includes the following topics: the follow-up to the discussion of the bill on the fight against discrimination and violence for sex, gender and disability, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; the European law 2019-2020, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union; the bill, linked to the budgetary maneuver, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the qualifying university titles; the first Senate resolution on the constitutional bill amending Article 119 of the Constitution for the recognition of the disadvantage resulting from insularity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u34	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 28 October: [[Tuesday, October 19 h. 16,30-20 - Information by the Minister of the Interior on the serious events that occurred in Rome on October 9 at the event held in Piazza del Popolo - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 (Wednesday 20, 9 a.m.) - Motions on initiatives aimed at following the constitutional dictation on the prohibition of the reorganization of the dissolved fascist party and Motions on initiatives aimed at countering all forms of violence and totalitarianism Wednesday 20 " h. 9-20 Thursday 21 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, October 26 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2381 - Decree-Law n. 120, Forest fires (decades on 8 November) - Following bill n. 2005 - Contrast of discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2169 - European Law 2019-2020 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) and related doc. LXXXVI, No 4 and Doc. LXXXVII, n. 4 - Programmatic and customary relations on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Drawing of law n. 2305 - Enabling university qualifications (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (linked to the budgetary maneuver) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 865 - Amendment to Article 119 of the Constitution for the recognition of the disadvantage deriving from the insularity (first resolution of the Senate) Wednesday 27 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 28 " h. 9.30-20]] Amendments to the draft law No 2305 (Authorizing university titles) and No 865 (Edit Article 119 of the Constitution for the recognition of the disadvantage resulting from insularity) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 22 October. Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5 IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be defined]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2381 (Decree-Law No 120, Forest Fires) (Groups 5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2169 (European Law 2019-2020) and related documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u37	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 24 March 2021, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences unanimously approved the report on pollution resulting from the use of red chalk produced in Scarlino, Municipality of Grosseto, Tuscany, where for years the regional presidents, those who should protect the common good, are politicians of the Democratic Party. The report should be debated in this House. In seven months, however, such a delicate and evidently political subject has found no place. In that place and in that region there are shameful gains on the shoulders of the people. In fact, the report shows an illegal saving of 237 million against a blatant and established pollution of the aquifers. Why then postpone such an important subject, studied, assessed and condemned by a Commission whose role is so devalued and above all subordinate to the strong powers of a political party? There is always talk of green and then about the pollution of the aquifers the head bows before the god money; too much hypocrisy and political cunning. I wonder at this point whether the role of the Commission is still useful and I would point out the need for the debate on the red chalks to come to this House, especially now that the elections are over. I close by reading the Commission's objective and courageous conclusions: this does not seem to be the correct attitude to be taken by the state and public institutions which should protect the environment. More correctly, the solution that should have been adopted was to ban the use of casts for the restoration of the former quarries used up. I go further, because the report concludes with a phrase that slaps politics: "Found pollution, the law keeps it. I would like to reiterate the need to bring this matter to the House, which is obviously of interest to the PD. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u40	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I feel it is my duty to speak in order to remind myself, first of all, of the figure of a person who left us yesterday, a Sardinian who, in his extreme humility, gave glory to Sardinia, earning himself the name of hero, but who has always refused. I am talking about Angelo Licheri, the man who, endangering his life in a totally free and generous way, had tried to save Alfredo Rampi on those terrible days that we all know and we keep in our memory. Angelo Licheri was a very humble person, tried in the body, without a leg due to diabetes, semicemic and with severe hearing problems. In all this, however, he continued to keep alive the memory of that night and to have the courage of rejection, while living in extreme poverty: they had offered him 27 gold medals, but aware - he said - of having failed in that absolutely difficult task, he always refused. I wanted to speak because a few months ago, together with President Pharaoh, we tabled a motion to ensure that this man could at least have the dignity of a serene life and a serene end of life, because he had been refused any kind of help and really lived in poverty, a guest of a nursing home. Unfortunately, that motion has never been taken to the House and has never been discussed. This man said he was only remembered in the days of the anniversary of the Vermicino affair and complained that he never had the best wishes, not even at Christmas or Easter; therefore, in this sense, it remains to me the regret of not having managed to complete that operation and I believe that we should reflect on this, because we really have many figures like Angelo Licheri, but perhaps we do not value, we do not remember and do not help enough. We therefore also greet from this House, with the solemnity that this House deserves, the figure of a hero who has really put his life at risk free of charge, simply in an attempt to save another. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u43	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech aims to focus on a very positive reality, which represents a success for our scientists and the professionalism present in our country, in particular, in this specific case, in my region, Campania. There are high-profile figures in the scientific panorama and in world research that confirm once again, if ever needed, the enormous potential and the great competences of our research and our researchers. The need to strengthen, support and finance research in every way, in order to avoid the many escapes abroad of our best minds, is a priority. In particular, in this case, ten children found their sight thanks to gene therapy, performed for the first time in Italy at the hospital of the University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Naples. The young were visually impaired due to a rare hereditary retinal dystrophy linked to genetic mutations. The result is the result of the thorough work carried out by the university eye clinic in collaboration with Telethon and the Children's Hospital in Philadelphia. The children were not bell towers and came from different Italian regions. I would like to make one important point: Naples becomes a national reference point for the treatment of rare retinal diseases. Therefore, no longer only trips of hope and of sanitary emigration to the central-sevent regions, more organized and structured from a health point of view, able to respond in a more appropriate and faster way to the health demand of citizens of the South, whose regions pay years of malasanity, structural and organizational deficiencies and inadequate organic plants. The ten patients treated today can write, read and move independently; the path of early treatment in a degenerative pathology such as this is crucial. The success, the result of years of work and research, allows to offer a real hope of better life to small patients. We must be proud of the research team that has achieved this great result, which puts our country at the forefront in Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-368.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, October 20, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.53.
