ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1893, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1542 and 1950. The rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, asked to supplement the written report. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretary, the need to intervene in the matter of trade union associations between the military stems from the well-known judgment No 120 of 13 June 2018 of the Constitutional Court, which declared the partial constitutional illegitimacy of Article 1475, paragraph 2, of the Code of Military Law. The Court, in fact, has established the illegality of the rule in the part in which it provides that the military may not constitute professional associations of a trade union nature or join other trade union associations, instead of providing that the military may establish professional associations of a trade union character under the conditions and with the limits laid down by law and may not join other trade union associations. This is the context in which we moved. Moreover, more than forty years have passed since the establishment of bodies representing elective military personnel, introduced by the Law of 11 July 1978 and other measures within the administration. The experience of the military representations has had the merit of gradually consolidating itself, acquiring a precise and precise value, both with the relevant administrations and with Parliament. The passage of time had, however, gradually revealed some limitations of this legislation: there have been several improvements, while other broader proposals for amendments have not been able to conclude the legislative process. Now, following the intervention of the Constitutional Court, which also resulted from a changed orientation of the European Court of Human Rights, an intervention that updates the instruments of representative protection has become unavoidable, introducing the right to trade union associationism and a more complete framework of protection, allowing the military order to take a new step forward. I remember that Armed Forces, Carabinieri and Guardia di Finanza today number a total of about 350,000 operators and represent, therefore, a segment of particular importance in the field of public administration, composed of men and women to whom we entrust our security, the protection of legality as well as absolutely essential commitments in the competition for civil protection activities and international missions; functions, which are an expression of operational capacity and flexibility, indispensable for the survival of the State (think also of the new commitments assigned in the context of the control of the territory and the contrast to the pandemic). It is, therefore, a fundamental component for our country, to which the right to compete and define the contents of the employment relationship and more generally its working and living conditions must now be recognised more fully. The Armed Forces, in order to fulfil the role that the Constitution and the laws of the State entrust to them, have, however, also the absolute necessity to seriously guarantee the internal discipline and cohesion along the entire hierarchical scale. The measure under discussion, modified by the Senate Defence Commission in some parts, was examined in the House for over a year and a half and approved by a large majority: there were abstentions, but only four votes against. In the Senate came a complete text, which required some updates in some parts even deep, but that in its overall system we believe consistent with what the Constitutional Court decided, and therefore acceptable. More than three years have passed since the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court and, after the circulars of the Ministry of Defence that allowed the start of the new season with the first registrations of professional associations of trade union character, we are still in the middle of the ford: on the one hand, the bodies of the internal military representation are still fully operational; on the other, a large number of associations have been formed which, overlapping with the bodies of military representation, generate - so to speak - confusion. In the Defence Committee we carried out a very structured round of hearings - we audited more than 60 people - which involved military summits (General Nistri, Zafarana, Vecciarelli), the academic world (Professors Flick and Ciucciovino) and also forensics with the lawyer Charter. We have audited the national inter-force representatives of the Cocer and all the trade union associations that have so far been absent from the Ministry of Defence (in total 29) and the Ministry of Economy (another seven) for the staff of the Finance Guard. All this work now allows us to propose to the Assembly a measure of epochal scope for our armed and police forces in military order: a balanced and punctual text that provides for successive passages in the part of delegation and in the implementing decrees. It was clear to everyone that we are called upon to build a new model, a model of trade union professional association between the military - as defined by the Constitutional Court - which adapts to the peculiarity and specificity of the Armed Forces through the compromise between the constitutionally fixed requirements of functionality of the military administration and those of protection of military personnel in service. What we have before us, which we have achieved and submitted to the Assembly's examination is, therefore, a very delicate work, in which we have intended to balance and balance the various interests and values, sometimes seemingly opposed, that are at stake: on the one hand, the freedom of trade union organization and, on the other, the requirements necessary for the pursuit of the tasks proper to the Armed Forces, such as neutrality, internal cohesion, operational readiness and respect for the hierarchical scale. In this path, the only compass has been and remains, being unable to be otherwise, the decision of the Consulta. With respect to the text approved in the Chamber, the Defence Committee introduced some new principles which concern in particular the strengthening of women's participation in elective positions, the transparency of the financial system and the non-interference of the activities of the associations with respect to the performance of the operational tasks and the management of the services. A further amendment relates to the possibility of granting, where possible, at least on a regional basis and without charge to the State, the use of premises for the performance of trade union activities. In addition, it is envisaged that, for the definition of the consistency of the associations, only the delegations formally received against a minimum trade union contribution will be counted. Particular attention has been paid to the issue of jurisdiction for so-called anti-union conduct. The choice, at the outcome of a prolonged debate in the Chamber, was directed - and was confirmed also by the Defence Committee to the Senate - towards the administrative judge and the abbreviated rite provided for in Article 119 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, after possible attempt to reconcile before the committees specifically constituted. On this point, it is considered that this orientation fully responds to the need, indicated by the Council, to preserve the internal cohesion and the operational readiness of the military corps, because of the greater expertise of the administrative courts in the matter of the employment relationship of military personnel, their minor fragmentation in the territory compared to the working sections of the civil court, as well as to the only seat, the Council of State, competent to decide on the possible appeal. The same professor Flick in audition on the topic has specified - I quote it verbatim - that the uniqueness of the administrative jurisdiction for the disputes of work and of anti-union behavior are all specific aspects connected organically with each other in the context and in respect of the militarity. On the other hand, they reflect and respect the indications of judgment No 120 of the Constitutional Court; they do not abolish and frustrate either individually or jointly the freedom of organization and of trade union action. Finally, the transitional phase has been thoroughly reviewed in the Defence Commission. The discipline of this stage, as referred to in Article 19, was in fact the subject, even during the hearings, of wide and significant attention. It assigns a very important step that covers many areas and will have a significant impact on the implementation of the new rules and practices. It is not merely a matter of replacing one subject, the Cocer, with another, the unions. Rather, we have defined a gradual transition from the old to the new system, avoiding solutions of conflict and paralysis of collective relations. Unfortunately, the discipline approved in the Chamber did not seem to ensure the desired graduality of this passage, but instead risked creating a gap between the representation of the Cocer, which remains in office exclusively for the activities of ordinary administration - a concept not too clear - not later than the ninetieth day after the entry into force of the law, and that of the new professional associations of a trade union nature; this without taking into account that the latter, in order to be fully operational, have the need for technical times not indifferent. In this context - as has been pointed out by several parties - it has been considered to maintain, throughout the transitional regime, the current military representation in the fullness of its powers, until the associations are fully and definitively operational. In this way, the risk will also be avoided of paradoxically realizing that gap of representation feared by the Constitutional Court, in the blackberries of the full setting up of the new trade union model, which - it should be remembered once again - does not end in the replacement of the old military representations with the new trade union subjects, but, more generally, involves the transition to a new system of participation and to a new framework of activities and functions, including the transformation of consultation into bargaining. The latter is a point on which particular attention has been paid, because the first to be damaged by a lack of discipline would be the workers of the Armed Forces and the military police forces. In essence, the delegates of the military representation, whose mandate is ongoing on the date of entry into force of this law, may remain in office and carry out all the activities of competence, until the entry into force of the first decree that will identify the negotiating representation of military personnel. Mr President, allow me in conclusion a few seconds to thank, in particular, all the members of the Senate Defence Commission, who have contributed with important work, for over a year. There has been a contribution from all the parliamentary groups and also from individual Members, and some amendments have been adopted by all the political forces in the Defence Commission. Thanks also go to the Commission Offices. There has been a fruitful work and a positive intercourse with the Government, initiated with the State Secretary for Defense Calvis and continued with the Undersecretary Pucciarelli. I also want to thank the legislative offices of the Defense, the Carabinieri and the Guardia di Finanza, which have provided technical support and an important contribution of balance with respect to the innovative scope of the norm, in the knowledge that, with balance, it is necessary to make progress also in the field of rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Castiello is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, bill No 1893 marks a very important moment in the production of legislation in the field and reconciles the code of military law with important and fundamental principles, both of the internal constitutional order and of the Treaty of Lisbon (and therefore in the European Convention on Human Rights - ECHR, which is incorporated in it) and of the European Social Charter. There were now intolerable antinomies censored by the Constitutional Court with the historic ruling n. 120 of 2018. The ECHR, in Articles 11 and 14, provided for and expressly provides for the freedom of trade union association, extended to the generality of citizens, without distinction between military citizens and citizens - let us call them - civilians. Well, this provision had remained unimplemented, indeed violated, because Article 1475 of the COM (code of the military order) was in an absolutely antinomic relationship with that provision, because it put the general ban, where the international norm put the faculty, established a right. Moreover, Article 1475, in prohibiting military participation in trade union associations, contrasted sharply with Article 18 of the Constitution, which provides - as is well known - freedom of association among the fundamental rights of the person. The European Social Charter also provided, in Article 5, for the freedom of trade union guarantees extended to the military, then referring to national law the identification of the limits and measures necessary to sum up this fundamental freedom with institutional requirements. However, the Constitutional Court had already ruled before the judgment 120 of 2018, which gave rise to the law that we are about to approve. Exactly, in its judgment of 126 of 1985, it stressed the need for the democratic order of the armed forces to be implemented to the maximum extent compatible with the pursuit of institutional aims. Therefore, it was a problem of proportion, a problem of synthesis, but the Constitutional Court, with the ruling of 1985, already encouraged the internal legislator to go in this direction. Even more explicit was the subsequent sentence of two years later, No 278 of 1987, in which the Constitutional Court points out that the military order radically rejects - says the Court - institutionalistic theory. This means that it cannot be considered a separate order, a foreign body, compared to the general order. If it cannot be considered a separate system and is an integral part, ontologically, of the general order, it cannot reject the fundamental principles of the general order: Article 18, which we have already mentioned, that of the freedom of trade union association. What happened after these very important and eloquent arrests of constitutional jurisprudence? We found ourselves in 2010 with a greedy legislator, the legislator of legislative decree no. 66 of 2010, which will launch a code of military law on which the Constitutional Court has had to intervene several times to cut dry branches, as it contained numerous unconstitutional provisions. The legislator of 2010, paviour and fearful, did not have the courage to follow up these important ideas, the encouragements of constitutional jurisprudence. The rejection of institutionalist theory meant implementing and transposing, within the framework of the military order, the fundamental values of the Republican Constitution and the fundamental values of the Community order. This is also because the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution obliges the internal legislator to observe and transpose the principles of the hierarchy of higher-level legislative sources, which are Community principles, and to comply with international obligations. These are the words of the Constituent, in Article 117. The COM did not do this, and this is what Parliament is doing today - albeit very late, but it intervenes and intervenes decisively - in order to implement Article 52 of the Constitution and reconcile the ordinary regulatory framework with the constitutional and international framework. As is well known, article 52, paragraph 1, of the Constitution states that the defense of the Homeland is a duty of all citizens, but in the last paragraph prescribes that the order of the Armed Forces be informed of the democratic principles of the Italian Republic. This article had not been implemented and today we are proud to be able to say that it is finally being implemented and respected. [[Applause]] Mr President, it is also very important that the measure, in addition to its legal order, contains a delegation of great importance to the Government. Articles 12 and 16 mandate the Government to introduce the necessary amendments in the Military Order Code and the Minister of Defence to introduce further amendments to the decree of the President of the Republic of 15 March 2010, No 90 (so-called TUOM) for the necessary fittings. The regulatory order can therefore be further completed and refined through the delegation mechanism. I shall conclude, Mr President, by highlighting a passage in the report which we have just heard from Mr Vattuone. The Defence Commission, acting on the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, introduced some new principles. Let us see what is this quid novi that Mr Vattuone wisely summarizes in three expressions: strengthening women's participation in the managerial positions; transparency of the financing system; not interference of the activities of the associations in relation to the performance of the operational tasks. This comment - synthetic, but very clear - makes exactly the idea of the balanced synthesis between institutional needs, which are not compromised by the amendment, and the introduction of the law implementing the Constitution. I should like to conclude by thanking and appreciating my colleagues for their work in the defence committee, in particular President Pinotti, the rapporteur, Mr Vattuone and all the colleagues from all the political forces who have worked hard and earnestly, producing a good text which will then be refined in the subsequent stages. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mininno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin by clarifying the purpose of this measure, which is not intended to grant military trade union law, since it has already been recognised by the Constitutional Court by judgment No 120 of 2018. The Consultative Committee has expressly provided that the military may form professional associations of trade union and category and that this right is not postponed to the intervention of the legislator, but immediately exercisable, although within the limits of the legislation in force. The purpose of the measure we are examining is therefore to establish conditions and limits for the exercise of trade union rights by the military. The Constitutional Court, in accordance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, establishes an important principle: the freedom of assembly and association in which trade union freedom is included cannot be denied and must be ensured without discrimination. It is possible to provide by law for restrictions on the exercise of trade union law for certain categories, including the military, but only if necessary for national security, public security, the defence of order and the prevention of crimes, the protection of health or morals and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. Therefore, the Court has not only established that the existing representative bodies, which are staffed by the armed forces and the military police forces, are not sufficient to compensate for the absence of trade union law, since trade union freedom presupposes the possibility of giving rise to autonomous forms of representation, but has also stated that any restrictions on trade union law must be justified by the need to ensure vital needs for a democratic state, expressly identified in Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The legislator therefore does not have full freedom to introduce conditions and limits to the trade union activity of the military, guaranteed by Article 39 of the Constitution, but must intervene only where the tasks and purposes of the Armed Forces would risk being compromised. On the other hand, the draft law under consideration is an entirely arbitrary and unjustified set of restrictions, in some cases such as to completely suppress trade union law. I will only dwell on a few critical issues, for reasons of time. The bill excludes from the right of free trade union organization the staff on leave, both the reserve and the absolute leave, despite this personnel the code of the military order confers the status of military, with the consequence for the same of not being able to protect their own interests. In fact, on the one hand these soldiers are excluded from the law on military unions; on the other, they cannot join non-class trade union associations, as military. It is expected that the military unions, in order to operate, will be subject to an authorization that passes through the verification of the possession of the requirements and the transcription in a special register. This verification is already in itself a unicum, if it is considered that the other unions, including those of the State Police, have the sole obligation to communicate to the respective Ministries their own constitution and are not subject to any statutory verification. This verification is then carried out by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, i.e. by the Ministries themselves against whom the unions should assert the opposing interests of the staff represented by them. Moreover, the Ministries themselves could at any time decide for the revocation of the previously authorized trade union association, which they consider to have lost the requisites. The ban on the exclusive representation of one or more categories of staff is envisaged, affecting the freedom of the union organisation. It is not understandable why a union cannot represent - for example - only the interests of the role of marshals or graduations. Even more serious is the prediction that the representation of a single category should not exceed the 75% limit of union members. This, in fact, implies the impossibility of staff registration, whose category has already reached this percentage, and clearly implies the abolition of freedom and the desire to join a specific union. A narrow list of subjects covered by the military unions is provided for: outside those subjects, the union is forbidden to make proposals or even to express itself. Basically you want a union that you can't trade. The peripheral articulations of the trade unions are forbidden to dialogue with the commander at his own territorial level, a restriction which did not even have representative bodies. It has a heavy impact on the organizational freedom of the union with stringent requirements for applications for internal management positions to the unions, which exclude a large part of the staff, and with limitations on the duration of the posts, the possibility of re-election and the duration of the postings. There are some bargaining subjects for managers, but not for non-managers, creating an incomprehensible disparity. The representativeness of the effective force is measured, rather than the unionized force, which could lead to the absence of the trade union party at the negotiating table. It is expected that administrations will be able to transfer the trade union representative, including a representative trade union, due to environmental incompatibility: this is a highly discretionary measure. The jurisdiction of the administrative court for disputes in the trade union are foreseen, disregarding a general principle, for which anti-union behavior is directed before the labour court. Moreover, provision is made for the applicant to pay the unified contribution, creating a further disparity, since the appeal before the labour court is free of charge. For each of these issues, amending proposals have been submitted to the Commission in an attempt to correct these distortions, but they have all been rejected by the majority. Amendments have even been adopted which have worsened the basic text and introduced further restrictions. The distribution of postings and union permits, which will not take place before another three years have passed, has been postponed to the next negotiation. Among other things, the possibility for military unions to enter into agreements with patrons for tax assistance to their members was excluded. All forms of protection have been removed from the management of non-representative trade unions, which can also be prosecuted in disciplinary terms for the opinions expressed, nor can they send written communications to military personnel on matters within their competence or visit the military structures and departments in which the staff they represent operate. In my opinion, all these limitations have only one objective: to formally allow the military to organize themselves in trade unions, effectively prohibiting all kinds of trade union agility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u10	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after long and difficult discussions, this bill arrives here in the Senate Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Vattuone, for the patience with which he has tried to deal with the various requests which, in these hours outside and now in the Chamber, appear, as is inevitable, on such a delicate subject, that he has tried to arrive at a synthesis, which has not been easy, so much so that this bill had already been approved for a long time in the House of Deputies. The Forza Italia Group also contributed to a mediation in Montecitorio, which, like everyone else, risks leaving unsatisfied both those who would like more advanced balances - so it would have been said with an expression of ancient politics - and those who think that a navigation full of unknowns takes place in the coming years, because we are still talking about our Armed Forces, called to many heavy and delicate commitments, abroad and in the Homeland, which require a hierarchical organization, a structuring and dynamics different from those of other organizations. The problem, which was first addressed by the House, was how to combine the issues of democracy, trade union representation and the protection of rights with a highly hierarchical organization. I recall the contribution made by the Forza Italia Group with Mr Tripodi's proposal for a law. The discussion on the jurisdiction of the TAR or the ordinary judiciary that took place in the Chamber, on which the contributions and amendments of Forza Italia were decisive, was preserved and confirmed by the Senate. I have been following these matters for many years and I remember when, by amending the law on the Central Council of Representation (Cocer), the re-eligibility was introduced, which at the beginning was not there and which even then caused problems, because it was said that figures were professionalized and that, since they were military, had they been re-elected, they would have become "syndicalists" of long course. I have repeatedly argued that perhaps a further strengthening and unification of the Cocer, the internal representation bodies, could have been a solution with more powers for a more effective representation of the rights of the military world. On this subject we have sometimes faced each other. There were adjustments to the founding law, but then many things remained unfinished. Then came the judgment and, as often happens, the judgments of the Court force, induce and force Parliament to legislate. We have heard some criticisms here too. Even today I see the notes of some trade union organizations and associations expressing dissatisfaction. Others, with more conservative principles, are perplexed with just as much force, but I believe that a balance has been reached. This must be accompanied by a series of acknowledgments, because it is true that the activity of the trade unions has limits (it is obvious that in the military world you cannot strike and you cannot do certain things). Moreover, even in the demilitarized forces, which have been unionized for decades, there are limits to the possibility of a representation. The counterweight to the limitations of rights and to a different exercise of union freedoms, which are inherent in the specific nature of the military world, must find a balance in strengthening the instruments of specificity. I claim to the Forza Italia Group, to the center-right and to the governments led by Berlusconi to have introduced the theme of specificity, that is the fact of considering the world in uniform and the security and defence sector as different within the public employment, not because others have no duties, rights and sacrifices (just think of the world of health and many sectors that we have praised, especially in these difficult phases), but because the military world risks more, with missions abroad and commitment on the territory (there are forces that are engaged in public order and also in the world of the Army the military are now usually employed in operations in Italy). All this must be "compensated" - I want to use a term of this nature - in economic and regulatory terms. There are many issues to be resolved - even President Pinotti knows and shares this - on the subject of welfare: in this regard, we have signed legislative proposals with signatures from different groups. There is a problem of an economic nature, with respect to which this law of stability makes some openness, which has also been appreciated by the representative bodies. A balance needs to be struck on rights and criticism on the one hand and on the other, showing that this was a laborious, sometimes even slow, compromise to balance the rights and functionality of the military world. It is a debate that has lasted for many years and has led to results such as the establishment of the Cocer, with some changes, to the previous legislation that I mentioned before, and with this law, which is the result of a sentence that we must read in full, in which we talk about associations of a trade union nature, because we do not ignore a series of prerogatives and constraints, that then the staff of the Armed Forces faces with great pride and tenacity; we must also remember what it does at home and abroad. I would remind the Government - but also to ourselves legislators - that we must go faster in terms of specificity, which is a fact of regulatory condition, economic treatment and social security guarantees that, in a world where work cannot be extended beyond a certain limit, for the usurping reasons of the activity of the security-defense sector, must ensure mechanisms that do not penalise those who have to stop working before other categories for inevitable logical reasons, so that they do not see an economic penalty. I also say this to the rapporteur and to the members of the Defence Commission, where we work intensively, carefully, seriously and always seeking reasonable solutions, because the Armed Forces are a garrison of the Republic and must not be strangled with political attitudes that can also create failures within them, sometimes we have to work on the side of specificity and economic treatment. I hope that the negotiations for the sector contract, which Minister Brunetta has reopened and started during the summer, will also be well advanced, because we are in a considerable delay: the contract is in fact for the period 2019-2021, so what we are going to sign is due to expire and we will need another soon after. I therefore address an appeal to the Government - to be shared between the Minister of Public Administration and the others involved, the interior, defence, sport and infrastructure, which then have to do with the people in uniform - that the contractual negotiation also ends positively. Let us look at the armed forces as a whole and not only make it the object of a rhetorical and occasional appeal of gratitude, which is expressed also through the laws and economic measures (the law of stability will be a further test case here in the Senate in the next few days). Without the world in uniform, the country does not work, not only to protect itself from physical dangers or because through the Armed Forces Italy plays a leading role in the guarantee of rights in many parts of the world, with a remarkable sacrifice also in terms of human lives: as we have also seen in the case of health, in fact, without the Armed Forces the vaccination plan would not have been implemented in Italy, let's say it clearly notes with all respect for the other sectors of public administration. I also remember the logistical efficiency at the most tragic and dramatic moments of the pandemic, when the armed forces carried out the most pitiful tasks. This law has been described by the rapporteur, with his points of balance; I myself have tabled only one amendment, which we shall submit to the House, on certain conditions of eligibility. Then we will experience it, because it will take the implementing decrees, we will go to exhaust the function of the Cocer and will arrive these associations; there is no doubt that there will be a check on the field to be done, in the dialectic that there will have to be between the associations, the military summits and the territory not only in the headquarters (where sometimes it is easier the comparison between organizations and central political or military summits); because on the territory it will be a bit more complicated, but also to this we have been very careful. Mr President, we will vote in favour of this law, aware of the efforts made to achieve this type of mediation, aware of the criticism of those who consider it insufficient and of those who consider it exaggerated and aware that the rights of military personnel must be protected not only by this law, but by other measures to guarantee the specificity of economic and social protection. However, the position of Forza Italia has always been in favour and in support of the people in uniform and the security and defence sector, to which our eternal gratitude goes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u12	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and members of the Government, it is not very easy for me to speak on this draft law. First of all, it must be said that it was a very complex parliamentary process, which involved the Chamber and Senate Defence Commissions for almost three years. That is why I would like to thank all the Commissioners, both in the House and in the Senate, for the great work they have done. There have been so many hearings and so many debates; so many amendments have been tabled. There has been a long work between the House and the Senate, which has led to the unification of various proposals, reaching a point of fall on the text that we are about to approve. Since the decision of the Constitutional Court published on 20 June 2018 that gave the start to the need to define a legislative perimeter for the right of the military to establish professional associations of a trade union nature or to join other trade union associations, overturning paragraph 2 of article 1475 of the code of the military order, clearly the legislative framework to be defined here, in the symbolic place of democracy, has had a not simple gestation. It was clear from the outset, given the scope of the sentence, how difficult it would have been to find a balance between tensions and opposing interests, but above all between two opposite ways of understanding the Armed Forces. To be as clear as possible, I do not think at all that the system of representation of the armed forces did not need a renewal. A renewal served, so as to finally represent an effective tool to bring and defend the demands of the personnel of the Armed Forces. These are instances and problems that we have been collecting for years and that, as a Group, we try to solve, from transfers to pensions, to reach the sacred recognitions of the causes of service [[Applause]] and compensation for damage caused by contracted diseases, for example due to depleted uranium. This is a necessary premise, which allows me to reach a point I mentioned earlier, that is the different ways of understanding and conceiving the Armed Forces. I am a retired officer and probably my experience influences the formulation of my political thinking. Now I see - and this is a phenomenon that unfortunately has been going on for several years - a dangerous drift from the conception of the work of the Armed Forces. Several political actors have tried and are still trying to transform the military sector, making it as close to the civil sphere as possible, through concepts such as dualuse or professionalization of the Armed Forces, both driven by a strong anti-militarist ideology, which pervades our country and makes it so different from the other great world and European powers. We risk being deleterious for the future of our national security system. How does all this tie to the law on military unions? It is the thread that led some parties, immediately after the publication of the judgment of the Court, to make roboating announcements, which, by the way, paradoxically raised - and consequently disappointed - the expectations of those who pushed for the formation of unions as traditional as possible. It is the same thread that joins the concepts I mentioned earlier, that is, the personal idea that the Armed Forces carry out normal work, such as that of any public administration. Therefore, the concerns I have about the establishment of military unions, shared by many experts and analysts in the military sector, are more conceptual than technical. How can internal associations, spontaneously constituted by soldiers, as if they were real intermediate bodies, interact with the hierarchical order and discipline, which are specific characteristics of the military world? Another perplexity: the establishment of intermediate bodies in the hierarchical order can lead to phenomena of split and disunity, or even to inefficiency and lack of immediacy in the answers. And again, will it be possible in practice to avoid for the various trade union associations a political matrix or at least a different ideological conception that could lead to rivalry between the various acronyms? As I said, Mr President, I will be influenced by my experience, but the conception I have of the Armed Forces and the military world is that of a mission rather than a job. [[Applause]] It is the idea of serving the Homeland in every second of our day, knowing that the mission that is being carried out goes far beyond the constraints and bureaucracies proper to other administrations. I make a final appeal: we learn to conceive of our military world as an excellence and as a resource for the future of our country. From this point of view, there are interesting signs, which it would be hypocritical not to see: both the words of our President-in-Office of the Council on expenditure on armaments and the actions of the Minister of Defence as the implementation of a ministerial directive on industrial defence policy mark an important break with the past, a turning point and a reversal of the route that make us optimistic. Let politics be united on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating here today has had a very long and particularly complex and troubled process. It is a bill born as a result of normative forecasts at both national and international level, as well as of important jurisprudential interventions: the judgment n. 120 of 2018 of the Constitutional Court has in fact sanctioned the constitutional illegitimacy of article 1475, paragraph 2, of the code of the military order, that it prevented the military to constitute itself in professional associations of trade union character or join other union associations. Instead, this ruling provides that the military may form professional associations of a trade union nature, under the conditions and with the limits set by law; they cannot join other trade union associations instead. Article 39 of the Constitution establishes the fundamental principle of freedom of trade union: The trade union organisation is free and cannot be imposed on trade unions other than their registration............................................................................................. Starting from these presuppositions and from my previous profession as prison director, head of the decentralised negotiations of the tables within the framework of the management with penitential police union organizations, I made this clarification because I have the confidence of what is the union, of its development and, above all, of the opportunities that it can represent for a public administration. The union is an integral part of our system, the result of battles culminated precisely in Article 39 of the Constitution. Any conflict between employers and workers, even the most intense, can be a constructive moment for both of us, even if we take note of the specifics. Precisely for these reasons I had presented a bill that mutuald the norms of the State Police and the Prison Police, dating from the eighties and nineties respectively, but that already provided the limit according to which the unions protect the interests of the category, without interfering in the direction of the services and in the operational tasks. The clarification of this limit is very important, precisely because it shows that trade union law cannot be exercised indiscriminately: rather, it weakens when it is necessary to protect a prevalent activity of public interest, such as the shortage of personnel, missions abroad or the need to quell riots. These were the limits to the exercise of trade union law, which therefore is not exercised in contempt of rules and all rights, but rather has this relevant rule. Despite the fact that there has not been a complete reception of these standards already tested and tested, this law is fundamental, because it introduces institutions such as the right to assembly, the possibility to use premises to exercise this right, the total number of postings, the negotiating powers in national bargaining and, above all, the anticipation of equal opportunities also in trade union positions (just because we know that women in this area still represent a minority and have special needs), as well as transparency and the possibility of communication to the outside world, representing their own problems, always in respect of rights. This law, even if it intervenes with decades of delay and can be improved, certainly represents a fundamental moment, because it aims to protect the social and civil rights of the military: like Movimento 5 Stars, therefore, we can only be content with it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u16	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank all our military personnel working in the theatres both at home and abroad. [[Applause]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the great work they have done in relation to the legislative text under consideration. For over forty years, the theme of dialogue and constructive confrontation between commanders and military personnel of every order, degree and level of responsibility has always had the utmost attention in the defence sector and has found in the system of military representation, established by Law No 382 of 1978, a widespread and effective implementation instrument still today the object of cross-cutting appreciation by our military. The decision n. 120 of 11 April 2018 of the Constitutional Court has claimed on the constitutional legitimacy of article 1475, paragraph 2, of the code of the military order, with which the military was forbidden to form professional associations of a trade union character. The descending commitment shown by the Commission, its President and the rapporteur in the development of draft law No 1893 has continued to show how high care and attention are in identifying the best possible synthesis between a subject felt in the social fabric and the safeguarding of the operation of an institutional component of crucial importance, as is the military sector. I therefore reiterate my applause for having worked chorally to achieve an objective dictated by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which determines a new perspective for military trade unionism. It is a reality, that of trade union associations between the military (the so-called APCSM), which at this point becomes an integral part of the military system and therefore also assumes the duty to contribute to the better functioning of this particular organization. Several points have been highlighted in the discussion on which work must be done. I am referring, for example, to the issue of specificity, to the issue of retirement and to the issue of health and legal protection. Our armed forces deserve our full support, because they are still our flagship in every scenario and operating theatre. I'm our Italian pride! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u18	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. In accordance with Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendment 9.22 cannot be considered as a matter of substance in relation to the content of the draft law. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u19	I am against all the amendments to the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u20	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u21	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.3 and 1.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u22	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u23	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u24	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.2 to 2.18 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u25	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3.2 and 3.3 in accordance with Rule 81.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u26	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u27	Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator De Falco, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.4 to 3.56 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u28	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.1, 4.8 and 4.19. The rapporteur's amendment 4,500 corresponds to the comments and conditions laid down by the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u29	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u30	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1 tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.2 to 4.7 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.9 to 4.18 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,500, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.20 to 4.27 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u31	Mr President, I would just like to say that the wording of Article 5, as you can read from the text, is extremely crooked and lends itself to non-univocal readings. My proposal, contained in Amendment 5.3, is to replace this text with a rather comprehensive statement. As laid down in other circumstances, it can be said more simply that professional associations of a trade union nature between the military are responsible for all matters not expressly excluded from Articles 2 and 3 of Law No 93 of 1983. This makes reference, with greater lexical and semantic rigour, to a rule which essentially excludes matters which must not be the responsibility of the unions. Instead of proceeding, on a case-by-case basis, to assert who is competent, we have to use the reverse procedure and say that, apart from these two cornerstones, which pertain to military function, the rest is in the availability of trade union associations. Otherwise, however, we would be reversing the order of factors, considering not already the military citizen, but the military, who is sometimes a citizen. The principle must be that of trade union freedom, except for military function. This is the reason for the reference to a well-structured standard, since Law No 93 of 1983.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u32	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u33	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u34	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u35	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u36	Amendment 5.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Minnino and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.3 tabled by Senator De Falco, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.4 tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator Minnino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator De Falco, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, limited to paragraph 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u37	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.1 and I am in favour of Amendment 6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u38	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u39	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.2, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u40	Mr President, I am against Amendments 7.1 and 7.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u41	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u42	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.1 tabled by Senator De Falco, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.2 to 7.5 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u43	Mr President, I am against Amendments 8.1, 8.6, 8.7 and 8.8. I am in favour of amendment 8.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u44	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u45	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.3 to 8.5 have been withdrawn. Amendment 8.6 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 8.2. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.7, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u46	Mr President, I am against Amendment 9.6. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 9, 9, 8 and 9.9. The opinion is opposed to amendment 9.23 (text 2). The opinion is obviously in favour of the G9.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u48	Amendments 9.1 to 9.5 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Mininno and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.7 tabled by the rapporteur, who fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.8 tabled by the rapporteur, who fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.9 tabled by the rapporteur, who fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.10 to 9.21 have been withdrawn. Amendment 9.22 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.23 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9,24 to 9,33 are withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 9 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which have subsequently been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u49	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 11.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u50	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u51	Amendments 11.1 to 11.8 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.9 tabled by Senator Minnino and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u52	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendment 13.1 and, of course, in favour of Amendment 13,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u53	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u54	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 13.2 to 13.19 are withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 13,500, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 13.20 to 13.26 are withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 13 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u55	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u56	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u57	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 14.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.3, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 14.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 14.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled which have subsequently been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled which have subsequently been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u58	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u59	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.1, tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.2 tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 17.3 to 17.6 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 18, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u61	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u63	Amendment 18.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator Mininno and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u66	Amendments 19.1 and 19.2 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.3 tabled by Senator De Falco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 19.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u69	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the military is also entitled to have their own trade unions. They must be granted rights similar to those of all workers, including that of asserting their own reasons through trade union representation. This was sanctioned by the Constitutional Court in a judgment of 2018, by which it determined the partial illegality of the military code of order that prohibited the armed forces from forming themselves into unions and we are preparing to foresee it today with a law by which we also recognize the military the right to protect their interests through trade union bodies. From the regulatory point of view it is a complex and not trivial exercise, since it is necessary to combine the interest of the individual worker with the specificity of the Armed Forces. First of all, the supreme interest of the country must prevail over that of the individual, just as the obligation to act first and foremost for the defence of the State is true. A number of fundamental principles, such as the neutrality of the armed forces, the necessary unicity of command, internal cohesion and the necessary readiness to respond to various dangers, must be guaranteed. Of course, the role of the military undoubtedly has very specific duties and characteristics in relation to those of other categories of workers. Nevertheless, this bill aims to give military trade union associations the task of collective protection of the rights and interests of their representatives, while at the same time seeking to prevent membership of trade union associations from interfering with the smooth functioning of their institutional services, precisely in view of the peculiarity of their role. Thus we introduce a much awaited law in the military world, by force of controversial things, precisely because so delicate, a law that wants to be, on the one hand, projected to the real protection of the rights of the military, guaranteeing them ever greater levels for the protection of the directly concerned, but being at the same time careful not to affect the specificity of the mission carried out by them for the benefit of national security. Parliament's intervention is necessary and not postponed, since it has already been three years since the decision by the Council opened the doors to the unionisation of the world with stars, entrusting Parliament with the task of regulating its subject matter. Since the Second World War the unions have become an integral part of the democratic life of the developed countries; however, while the unionization of the State Police, for example, took place in Italy with the reform of 1981, that of the Armed Forces is still in the making and we go to outline it precisely with this bill, with which we legitimize the military unions to exercise a series of functions. They are recognized, for example, the possibility of self-financing through membership of the union, in order to guarantee independence and the possibility of self-governing on certain issues without being economically dependent on the Ministry and, therefore, on military leadership. The military unions are also given the opportunity to deal with the relevant ministries on a number of subjects, from salaries to work. In detail, we establish the principle that trade union professional associations may be formed for single armed force or military or interforce police force, including therefore the Finance Guard. The statutes of the associations will have to be inspired by the principles of democracy and electiveity of the respective offices. Foreignness to political competitions, parties, political movements and the absence of profit is expected. It is also established the prohibition of members of the armed forces and military police forces to join trade union professional associations other than those constituted by this bill. A delicate and important passage is also that of Article 4, which introduces precise limitations for trade unions that will not be able to choose a denomination that also indirectly refers to the name of trade unions or political organizations. Compared to the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate Defence Commission has meritoriously introduced the strengthening of women's participation in the managerial positions, the transparency of the financing system, the non-interference of the activities of the associations with respect to the performance of the operational tasks and the management of the services. With the approval of an amendment of Italy Viva, moreover, it is expected that the associations constituted by representatives of two or more Armed Forces or Police forces under military order must acquire and maintain the minimum quota of representation of 3% (and not of 4) in all the Armed Forces or Police Forces. As Italy Viva we would have hoped for specific training courses for representatives of associations, we are convinced that qualifying these new representative bodies would benefit not only individual representatives and associates, but also the administration itself. We now trust that we can follow up on our approved agenda in the Commission on trade union training for members of the associations. We would also have hoped that the possibility could be accepted for the military unions to draw up conventions with the patrons, in order to issue tax returns at calm prices, because if it is acceptable the principle of neutrality and extraneousness with respect to the Confederal Trade Unions, at the same time it must be recognized that the patrons are not unions, they are agencies of fact, therefore it is not clear why the military unions should be precluded from drawing up conventions with them, which would certainly be less burdensome than those possibly concluded with private accountants. We also hope that the Government can quickly adopt the legislative decree reserved for the exercise of trade union rights by military personnel engaged in particular operating theatres, in order to regulate their specific limitations. Also in this case, in fact, the Government will have to allow the exercise of the union rights of military personnel, while safeguarding the prominent needs of functionality, security and operational readiness related to the specific military operations particularly sensitive. Compared to the text approved in the Chamber, the Defence Commission in the Senate has also provided that the competent administrations grant at least on a regional basis the free use of premises for the carrying out of trade union activities. In the law we also provide that trade union representatives may not be transferred to another office or department or be replaced in the post held at the time of election unless prior agreement with the association to which they belong. The bill also provides for authorization for trade union representatives to visit the military structures and departments at which the represented staff operates. The areas of intervention of the trade unions from which, however, the aspects of employment and other profiles related to the functionality of the military instrument are excluded are provided. On the other hand, the right to strike is not allowed. From the point of view of the jurisdiction competent to resolve disputes concerning trade union conduct, it is expected that the administrative court will have to proceed. There is a cost reduction and a unified contribution to civil cases. In short, Mr President, with this draft law we are trying to create the conditions for trade union organisations to be placed in a position to best fulfil their delicate task: to represent and defend the demands of military personnel. To date, several professional associations have already been formed between military, there are already 54 those who have obtained the consent of the Ministry of Defence. Many of them expressed themselves critically on some passages in the text. That's why I think it would be useful for the government to consider the possibility of further filings in the law enforcement phase. In any case, while we hope that individual improvements can still be envisaged, we share the measure in its substance and articulation. We are convinced that the force of the Armed Forces is primarily represented by its human capital, the women and men who make up it and with this bill we try to protect this capital to the best of our ability, endowing it with an instrument - the military union - capable of defending the interests and needs of our military workers in harmony with the supreme good of the country. For these reasons, we will also vote in favour of the measure as a sign of gratitude and appreciation for the work of women and men of our Armed Forces, who carry out their daily service for the good of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u72	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us resume, one year after the adoption of the first reading, which took place in the Chamber last 2020, the examination of this important and highly felt bill within the Armed Forces. I remember in fact that at the time there was another Government, but Brothers of Italy, yesterday as today, continues to represent the only voice always on the side of the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces. I remember in fact that thanks to an amendment of Brothers of Italy it was possible to extend the audience of beneficiaries of 5x1000 to Armed Forces and Forces of the Order, in particular to Army, Navy and Air Force. It was an act of justice, an acknowledgment for the commitment made every day by our women and our men in uniform, who are all too often remembered only when they die for our homeland. Much work has been done in the defence committee to improve this measure, also thanks to the adoption of some of our proposals, such as amendment 5.3, tabled by the rapporteur and signed by us, which incorporated the text of our amendment 5.4, aimed at giving greater coherence to the rule, in view of the fact that in trade union law the function of the trade union is traditionally and historically that of protecting the collective interest of its members. Attributing to the military trade union association also the individual protection of the interests of its members would have led to an extensive innovation in positive law, benefiting only a category of workers, the military one, which on the contrary should be the target of those limits and those conditions deemed necessary to guarantee the high institutional functions attributed to it, as recognised by the judgment n. 120 of 2018 of the Constitutional Court. In addition, giving the trade union association the protection of individual interests would have led to the risk of superimposing the two plans of action of the trade union association itself, with inevitable particularistic or even individualistic pushes of the trade union action. Amendment 11.3, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Rauti, aims to clearly identify the trade union delegation dealing with the trade union associations between the military recognized and representative in accordance with Article 13 of this draft law. The measure we are going to vote on is the result of a long and in-depth debate. We must thank - and I do this in this House - all the members of the associations for their patience and cooperation. Brothers of Italy had the opportunity to meet them all, with the clarity and consistency that have always distinguished us, both during the hearings held during the examination of the measure, and on the many occasions (conferences, debates and informal meetings) to which we were invited. In the Commission we brought our contribution of ideas and values, hoping that this law could be passed in a shared way. From the first of the officers to the last of the graduations, they all had to be able to confront each other, get to know each other and figure out how to reform the military representation. This measure is a first step that will certainly not please everyone, but our work does not end here. We will continue to try to improve the text, maintaining the close relationship of closeness and collaboration with all the Forces of Order and associations, because the problem of defence is not solved today, remaining unresolved the continuous problems that the Brothers of Italy brings to the attention of the Government for years. Among these are the lack of funds, the shortage of decent housing, the scarcity and irregularity of overtime, the lack of funds for equipment or to pay compensation due to raiders or bombers. But today's is an essential step to guarantee our women and men in uniform at the service of the nation a just right, never regulated until today. It is for this reason that I announce the favorable vote of Brothers of Italy to this provision, with the awareness that it must be a starting point and not of arrival, for the protection of those in uniform, even at the cost of life, protects our homeland. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u75	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, today we are examining the draft law on trade union associations for the staff of the armed forces and the military police forces. We are talking about this after more than forty years, as the rapporteur reminded us, namely the establishment of the bodies representing military personnel, which were introduced by the Law of 11 July 1978, No 382. The bodies representing the military constituted the first experience of protecting the personnel of the Armed Forces and over time acquired a precise physiognomy in the institutional relationship with the Defense and with the Parliament. The most evident proof of this growth is the establishment in 1994 at the Department of the Public Service, the Security and Defence Department. The passage of time has gradually highlighted the limitations of this legislation. Some improvements have been made - as Senator Gasparri also recalled - while other broader proposals for amendments, even though each legislature has begun, have never seen the deadline; I stress this because this delay in Parliament - and I am talking about the delay in the revision and enlargement of what was the military representation - was certainly a vulnus. In fact, there was a need to adapt it after so many years, but it had never been possible to do so; so many proposals presented, but never the work ended. It is also on this delay that the Constitutional Court is inserted. Therefore, Parliament now has an obligation to intervene; I have heard that some Members do not think so, but today we need a law, having as their point of reference the decision of the Constitutional Court, which must be read in its entirety. The Court, in fact, recognizes the trade union freedom of military personnel, but at the same time indicates the ways and limits in which this freedom must be exercised, in such a delicate area of our public apparatus and in a function, that of the defence of the State, which the Court itself defines as absolutely special. So there are no prepacked solutions; there are no union models from other administrations that can be exported tout court. He reminded us very well, among the many hearings we held during the course of our work in the Commission, that of Professor Giovanni Maria Flick, who reminded us that we must work with the specific nature of the military function in mind. It is on this balance that we have worked in the Commission, that between the special function of the State Armed Forces and the need to extend the protection of personnel. Parliament has done a lot of work, because we have been discussing this for a long time, but it has been serious and with everyone's contribution, because all our colleagues, including those from the groups that have decided to abstain today, have made a contribution to the debate, which has been very important, beyond the majority and opposition groups, which, among other things, in this legislature have changed many times in the process of the bill, always in a constructive spirit, so much so that the Commission defends the mandate to the rapporteur has been voted unanimously. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the patient and wise work he has done, including listening to all his colleagues and "sewing" difficult situations. I thank the Government which has followed us very closely and which we have repeatedly urged, because we needed to finally come to the conclusion of this measure, and all our colleagues in the Commission, as well as our offices that have always been very valuable. Certainly the reform does not end here not only because the bill now returns to the House, although we have already tried to work with the Commission to defend the other branch of Parliament in order to agree changes that can be shared, but also because, once it is law, there will be a need for that regulation and implementing decrees that will be fundamental. I believe that once the regulatory framework is established and all the rules have been adopted, when the reform comes fully into force, we will need great caution and sensitivity on the part of everyone at that time. It's a strong innovation. And it will take the sensitivity of the military summits, which I do not doubt will have, to properly welcome the union associations in the world of the various armed forces and the police forces under military order. And it will take the sensitivity of the new associations and their summits, and also on this I have no doubt. This legislation - if you will allow me the joke - will be handled with care because it is not joked with the defense of the country and with the security of the citizens, but also to be maintained to see if necessary adjustments, because it is a great novelty. So, there will be a period of settling. The rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, and many other colleagues have highlighted the different aspects of the bill, also stressing the changes we have proposed in the Defence Commission with respect to the text approved in the House. I do not go back to the details of these aspects, but the work done in the Commission I would like to point out just one aspect. The discipline and the transitional phase represent an important point that had not been considered by the House and that we inserted because without this discipline there was a risk of overlapping representation and new associations of a trade union character or of having a lack of representation, and it would have been a problem. In addition, the transitional phase is regulated in a cleaner way, taking into account also the contractual phase, which is a very important thing to consider. There will be - as I said - an inevitable period of settling and I hope it will be as short as possible. I hope that we will make as few mistakes as possible, that we will lose as little time as possible and that we will be able to do this, as well as the capabilities of the military leaders and personnel, and I hope that we will all be able to build on the experience of other state administrations in the defence and security sector, which have experienced similar passages in the past in the field of security. Of course, the state police have been mentioned and we must also look at how this evolution has been. I would like to end by thanking all the members of the armed forces, men and women, who daily serve our homeland. They do it in our country and abroad. All of us have witnessed the attention, availability and great professionalism demonstrated even during the emergency Covid. I should like to conclude with a wish. In the Commission, many parliamentary groups had signed a bill concerning the rules of equal treatment for defence personnel, because with the complete transition to the contributory method, members of the armed forces who retire a few years earlier by law cannot arrive at the completion of their remuneration. This is a problem because by law they have to retire first. We had therefore put forward a proposal and this is a subject that is very dear to our military and which is of particular concern to our young military. We have to take care of this and I have also talked to my colleague from the Commission about it. I can point out positively that in the budget law, Article 27 provides for an equalisation fund, which does not reach the capacity we had planned, but which is already an important signal because it is 20 million for 2022, 40 for 2023 and 60 for 2024. I think it is important because we are asking a lot of the men and women of the Armed Forces and it is right that we take care of their concerns and that in Parliament, as we are doing today, we solve the problems. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u78	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, a very long-awaited measure arrives here today, trying to catch up with delays which have lasted for a very long time. The need has become even more pressing for Parliament after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, however - I would like to point out - is dated 3 June 2018; therefore, you well understand that we intervene very late. We are talking about a sentence with which the Constitutional Court has declared the partial constitutional illegitimacy of article 1475, paragraph 2, of the code of the military order, in the part in which it provides that the military cannot constitute professional associations of a trade union nature or join other trade union associations, instead of providing - always in the judgment - that the military can constitute professional associations of a trade union character under the conditions and with the limits established by law and cannot join other trade union associations. I think that, in the work that the Commission has done, an attempt has been made to achieve a difficult balance between the absolutely sacrosanct right of the military as workers, being citizens even before being military, provided for in our Constitution, to be able to form trade union associations, and the limits set by the law, dictated by the very condition of being military, that is the very delicate role that the Armed Forces represent for the whole country. The Commission has therefore taken action on the Article to find this balance. With regard to the limits, since I have heard many colleagues say that this is only a starting point and not a point of arrival, I think and hope that we can work even better on these limits, even in the future. In the facts we photograph and normate with law - and it is certainly a step forward - what now in practice, between circulars and other, had consolidated. There are also changes made by the Commission's work: I am thinking, for example, of the principle of strengthening women's participation in the management positions of associations, of making a strong mark on the democratic nature of trade union associations. Probably, always with a view to finding a balance, one could reflect more on some points because the recognition of the freedom to join the constitution of professional associations is linked to the collective protection of the rights and interests of its representatives. From this point of view, I think it would have been appropriate, perhaps, to highlight a little more the freedom of trade union association. Having said that, we are about to vote on a long-awaited measure, and it is important that, after so many years, at least one can regulate by law a right, that is, the full recognition of the freedom of trade union association of the military. Precisely because of the balance found, we will vote in favour, also because of the urgency of the measure itself, and at the same time we hope that we can still continue to work on those so-called limits, which in some parts of the text we consider excessive compared to the full recognition of the trade union freedom of the staff of the Armed Forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u81	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia had already contributed to this legislative process in the House: I recall Mr Maria Tripodi's proposal for a law and also his commitment to some non-negligible aspects such as, for example, the competence between the TAR and the ordinary judiciary, which we have defended a jurisdiction over which, in our opinion, makes the application of this bill more functional. The subject that we are dealing with today, with changes that the Senate has brought to the text that had arrived from the Chamber - and that the latter I hope will finally fire - is an ancient topic: many years ago they were set up bodies of representation within the Armed Forces; the State Police in 1981, with Law No 121, was demilitarized and therefore opened to a plural union articulation; the Armed Forces had, with the Co.Ce.R, a body of personal protection. We changed that law: I remember that we introduced the possible double mandate, that is the re-eligibility of the members of the Co.Ce.R, who did not exist at first, as well as we introduced other faculties. Of course, there has always been a discussion: is the instrument of representation sufficient to give voice to the right rights of the people in uniform? In fact, they are workers and workers who carry out tiresome and risky activities of which we are all aware and for which we are all grateful to the defense, security and even public aid sector (which should be remembered because there are also firemen and other realities in this galaxy). Then came a sentence, already cited by several colleagues, which, as Senator Pinotti rightly said, must be read in its entirety, otherwise it becomes demagogy. We are talking about the security and defence sector and the armed forces, in which it is right to give a voice to rights, but there are hierarchical and functional developments that must be considered a peculiarity. So much so that I myself promoted years ago - there was a central right-wing government led by Berlusconi - in a broad, I think unanimous, sharing of political forces, to introduce the concept of specificity, in the field of public employment, of the security-defense sector. They are not ordinary workers: missions abroad, public order in Italy, the risk of dying and of achieving disability; in short, I do not have to explain to the Assembly how exhausting and risky the service in uniform. The armed forces have contributed together with the police forces, with the operation "Safe roads" in recent years, to the control of our cities and our territories. Abroad we had dozens and dozens of fallen. We have rightly witnessed with concern the withdrawal of the international community from Afghanistan, where Italy, with dozens of lives, sacrificed itself to establish conditions of democracy and freedom that are threatened again today. I, like others, therefore join in the applause of the Armed Forces. With regard to the 'civil' needs of health, I said in the general debate - and I repeat in my explanation of vote - that without the armed forces we would not have the implementation of the vaccination plan. [[Applause]] ; Without the Armed Forces we would have had no mercy at the extreme moments of the pandemic. We remember the images of some cities and the difficulty of the local authorities to manage the deaths: I talk about this and we all remember it. So the armed forces are there for any emergency, whether it's a flood, an earthquake, a health emergency. We must therefore remember the rights that this law lays down. I have read in these hours of the notes of some organizations that have been born, let's call them trade union associations. Some complain and would like to see more rights extended. We will see the implementation phase of the bill at our examination which is a work in progress, as has also been mentioned in other speeches. As Senator Pinotti pointed out, we have worked in the Commission trying to reconcile the right to carry out trade union activities with the need for the functioning of an organism, which is not just any body. So it has been tiring and like all compromises it leaves dissatisfaction between those who would like greater protection of the rights of trade union activity and those who consider this innovation, which comes from a judgment of the Court, "dangerous." The Cocers will run out of their role and, with the implementing measures, these associations will come into operation. But I'm not here to describe the contents of the bill, we'll check the field. Those who have to deal with it will see how things go. There will be discussions, there will be a comparison: it is an innovation and it is a bit more advanced than other countries. In fact, those who compare with abroad must admit that this is a much more advanced innovation than the situation in other countries. However, if there is an innovation in the field of rights that opens up (and that some would like even more inclusive), we need to remember the specificity. In the draft budget law, in Article 27, there are the first recognitions, which concern the funds to be used. Above all, there is a social security issue for the armed forces and the security and defence sector (because there are not only the armed forces), which must be resolved. We recalled in the speech in general discussion and I want you to remain in the proceedings with the explanation of vote that we presented a proposal with Senator Pinotti and other colleagues from all the Groups, League, Brothers of Italy, Movimento 5 Stars (I believe that there are many signatories). We need to discuss the issue of pensions, because, since those in the security and defence sector cannot be extended beyond a certain age limit, because of the obvious weariness and weariness, as we say today, this could lead, with the contributory systems and the social security innovations introduced, to a penalty for those who carry out this activity today. We must therefore act and already the draft budget law opens this chapter. We must strengthen it, ladies and gentlemen, if possible unitedly, even in the budget, because the armed forces do not need pats on their shoulders, but they need resources and concrete action for the staff. [[Applause]] This must be done in Parliament, as we did as a centre-right on specificity. But specificity is a title, to which the chapters and texts must be added, which ultimately translate into resources, ladies and gentlemen. There is little to do about it. The draft law under consideration has been the result of balances; the competence of the regional administrative court has also been the cause of great discussion, as well as the eligibility and certain functions (thank you, in this regard, the rapporteur for the amendment that has been accepted), also with respect to some compatibility and command roles, which take place in a certain context, the military one, and must therefore be combined with trade union action. The problem will then be on the territory. In the headquarters it will be easier to compare the military leaders with the leaders of the organizations, but then there is the territory, which cannot be prey to a thousand confusions. I want to add a thought to future memory. We have introduced limits to representativeness. Someone gets angry because he wanted them lower, but the thresholds also exist for Parliament, do they, Mr Calderoli? All electoral laws have a threshold of access. If there is a threshold for entering Parliament, which is the home of democracy and Italians, there must also be a threshold for exercising trade union activity. If an organization has five members, it has no right to do what 5,000 people do. The debate on representativeness in trade unions is always complicated, because in Parliament - whether you like it or not - sometimes you vote and then you can examine the accounts, even those sometimes contested, but then accepted. On the contrary, I hope, Mr President, that this House will examine some disputes which weigh heavily on the agenda and which are not so internal corporis, but rather events of democracy. I call on those who are setting up associations to avoid excessive fragmentation beyond the thresholds. Everyone is free to found parties and to establish unions, but we also see in politics what problems create fragmentation: you do not reach the thresholds, you have to associate, you have to make the norm to say that the cartel has a right, even if it has a representativeness below the threshold. On the other hand, we need authoritative interlocutors in the world of security and the Armed Forces. Mine, therefore, is an appeal: excessive fragmentation is avoided. Then it will be what they want: everyone has the right to associate and this law guarantees it, but dispersion also makes dialogue with political forces difficult. I sometimes respond, especially at this stage of mediation between the old and the new law, that if you want to convene a meeting, between the Cocer and the innumerable existing associations, you are with 50 people in front. It is right to respect them all, but let us consider the feasibility of union and political rights. I hope that real, real, important and authoritative blocs will be formed. But this will be the fruit of free decision. This bill is a meeting point and an agreement point. He was treated with a great sense of responsibility for the armed forces. We hope it works, but we are sure of one thing: that our security and defence sector, understood as a whole, and our armed forces will always function, as they have shown these days, at the service of the national community. We must always remember that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u84	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many speeches have already clarified the premise on which we are here today discussing this measure: a decision by the Constitutional Court. We love the Constitution, which is the source and why we are here, and we respect the Constitutional Court. We can, as Members, express our doubts. The specific role of the Armed Forces, already highlighted by my colleague Senator Gasparri and many colleagues, is a particularity of burdens and honors, if I may allow myself this simplification. The burdens are the sacrifices that we, like Italy, ask of our Armed Forces; the honors are those that we must render to them and that we constantly make for what they are doing, for what they have done and for what they will do in the future. Our vision of the Armed Forces, as well as the vision of the country, cannot be anchored to questions of principle, which ideologically tend to plan, to flatten, every category, every human being, every individual with the same horizontal cutting criterion. No, there are specifics. In the Armed Forces a very clear specificity derives also from the history of the Italian public administration. Since, since the 1990s, there has been talk of public employment reform and, starting with the Bassanini reforms, the principle of hierarchical organisation in public administrations has been overcome in order to move to the principle of leadership, the Armed Forces have rightly been excluded, continuing to be subject to a hierarchical functional principle. This is because, in itself, the Armed Forces have functions that are not comparable, for example, to those of the employees of the local authorities. I say this with all due respect for the public service, being part of it. The Armed Forces are being asked for more. We must start from this assumption in assessing the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the consequences of that judgment, which led us here to legislate on this matter. The fact about the specificity and what is required of them must also be accompanied by support measures on our part. The League has deposited, for example, a legal text, signed by me and Senator Augussori, on the supplementary pension. This recognition of specificity, this recognition of the delicacy of the tasks of the Armed Forces, cannot be accompanied by an assimilation of them to any body of public administration or, worse still, to private employees. We can't delegate, we can't risk fragmentation, we can't risk the malfunction of such an important body. It is understood that we have a Constitutional Court ruling. Therefore, in advance, for the benefit of the House's report, the abstention vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group on this measure. This is for the reasons set out above. We are not convinced, on the substance of this measure, that the limits and the regulatory part attributed to Parliament by the judgment have been exercised with sufficient rigour. That is the first point. Secondly, we call for a reflection on the Armed Forces and the risks that their unionisation may in the future compromise their functioning, especially if it is true, as we have heard from some interventions, that this bill is considered a starting point for such unionisation and not a crystallization of the situation. This is even more dangerous. Therefore, some speeches by distinguished colleagues comfort me in my position and, on the contrary, make me think that it is appropriate to think carefully, even by the highest positions of the State, about the situation generated by the judgment itself. I repeat our Group's abstention vote, Mr President, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u87	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, today the Senate finally dismisses our draft law on military unions. For five successive legislative acts, both branches of Parliament have tried to reform, without succeeding, the old regime of military representation in order to overcome the mechanism of conciliation and extend to workers and workers with the stars the right enshrined in our Constitution to organize themselves in trade unions. Military representation bodies born forty years ago (Co.Ba.R., Co.I.R. and Co.Ce.R.) they have progressively worn out and conformed to the logic of hierarchical dependence, becoming an ineffective mechanism to assert the reasons of military personnel and, in fact, sharpening the distances between military personnel and those who were to represent him. Most of the political forces in the parliamentary arc, subject to some exceptions, were opposed to the recognition of union rights to the military, until, however, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 13 June 2018, together with that of the European Court of Human Rights, was moved. As you know, the Consulta has declared unconstitutional article 1,475, paragraph 2, of the code of the military order, which sanctioned the prohibition for the military to form professional associations of a trade union character. Only thanks to the determination of the Movimento 5 Stars, the first political force to present a legislative proposal in this matter, has it been possible to follow up this pronunciation. On July 5, 2018, for the first time in republican history, the Movimento 5 Stars filed a bill aimed at overcoming the system of military representation and extending to the military the right to organize themselves in union. Among the many difficulties and resistances, every effort has been made to take into account the ruling of the Constitutional Court and the principles contained therein, including, on all, that of equality. Yes, because, apart from the recognition of the limitations linked to the peculiarities of the functions that the Armed Forces carry out in terms of national security and the democratic holding of our country, the employees of the Armed Forces and the Military Police Forces are exactly like all other Italian citizens and, consequently, must be recognized as holders of the right of trade union organization. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now faced with a historic moment, because today we are breaking down the wall that separated the workers in uniform from the other citizens, giving rise to a process of democratic development. In fact, we unite the workers in uniform with the values of our Constitution and guarantee greater freedom and security for our entire society. Any workplace is a place of organisation and protection of rights, but also a control body. Ensuring the unionization of the entire sector allows workers to defend themselves against interference and denounce the physiological distortions of every large organization. Our Armed Forces, in order to fulfil the role entrusted to them by the Constitution, have the absolute need to ensure seriously internal discipline and cohesion along the entire hierarchical scale, with a concept of discipline defined in the military order no longer by the old formula that intended it in an absolute sense, but as conscious participation in the orders received. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure balance, which, however, fails if one responds to the stresses of only one part. For this reason, it is necessary to accept the needs and views of all and to find a mediation. At the initial stage of the investigation we presented our text and then followed a long and complex round of hearings in the Commission both to the Senate and to the Chamber of Deputies. We preferred to listen to different opinions and examined the other texts before submitting a basic text. We discussed with the military summits and it is clear that we have taken into account some of their needs, as clearly we have done with the central representation councils (Co.Ce.R.), with the trade unions and also with the national associations of the world of work. Having to define by law what the rules of conduct will have to be, it is clear that they must be accepted by both parties and it is right and proper to do so. That is why we have been confronted with all the parties involved, listening to them and interpreting their reasons. After the return of the text, adopted on 22 July last in the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate Defence Committee worked in a very positive atmosphere and I thank the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, President Pinotti, colleagues and all the staff of the offices, who sometimes allowed us to overcome some of the nodes, which had not previously been properly dissolved, and to approve the amendments to the text, which have been well illustrated by the rapporteur today. I would like to remind you that two amendments have been adopted in the Commission at my first signature, but I consider their paternity to be the Movimento 5 Star, which protects gender equality in the Armed Forces. The first concerns the strengthening of women's participation, one of the principles of military trade union associations. The other places the obligation to respect gender equality in the elections of trade union positions. For Movimento 5 Stars, the defence of gender equality has always been a priority [[Applause]] , as we have also demonstrated with our strenuous struggle for the approval of the Zan bill. We intend to protect this principle in every social area, even more so in more problematic areas, such as the Armed Forces. We have all worked hard to build a text that, through rules, aims to improve the working and living conditions of military personnel and achieve maximum harmony and cooperation at the level of interforces. With this bill we are convinced that Parliament is doing everything in its power to ensure that military workers enjoy greater protection and do their best to ensure the security of the country. Mr President, certain that all union freedoms must be won on the ground and that legislative intervention is not enough to guarantee them definitively, we have carried out a coherent and shared work at the parliamentary level, even if we never deny our positions. From our point of view, this bill represents an important first step on the road to the recognition of the rights of military personnel and the value of trade union freedom. Last but not least, I want to thank all the operational personnel, all the civilian personnel, all the personnel, men and women of the Armed Forces and the Forces of the Order. [[Applause]] , all people engaged in the theatres operating and in all the places where they are called to operate their own service. I want to thank you, on behalf of me and the Movimento 5 Stars. Having made this thanks, right but heartily, I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars to the bill under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u88	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1893, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 1542 and 1950. Colleagues, none of the other measures on the agenda is yet ready to be discussed by the House. After a direct conversation with the President of the first standing Commission, I therefore propose to suspend the work of this House until 4.30 p.m., hoping that everything will be ready. If no comments are made, this remains the case. (The sitting was suspended at 11.55 p.m. and resumed at 16.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u89	The President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Parrini, has the floor to report on the Commission's work on Decree-Law No 139 of 8 October 2021 laying down urgent provisions for access to cultural, sporting and recreational activities, as well as for the organisation of public administrations and the protection of personal data. I would also urge President Parrini to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a on Decree-Law No 132 of 30 September 2021 on urgent measures in the field of justice and defence, as well as on the extension of referendums, temporary cheques and IRAPs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u90	Mr President, on measures, the situation at the moment is as follows: on the so-called capacity decree, a few minutes ago the meeting of the Budget Commission was completed, so we will have to meet as soon as possible to finish the work, which I think will end in the Commission by today's evening, in agreement with the Government as well. As for the other decree-law, on the other hand, we are finishing the vote on the amendments that have been interrupted to allow me to come and report to the House and I believe that by 5.30 p.m. we will be able to have the measure dismissed by the Commission with a mandate to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u91	So you're asking me for an hour's suspension to go ahead with the law-law review? Mr Parrini (PD). I ask you for an hour's suspension to proceed with the examination of the decree-law justice, while for the other decree-law I return to your assessment, but I think you should go to tomorrow's day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u92	I suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.36 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u95	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would just like to ask whether tomorrow we can postpone the resumption of work at 10 a.m. to allow the meeting of the Brothers of Italy Group. I don't know what the calendar is, but I guess tomorrow we'll have the second decree-law. I think that the beginning of the work is scheduled for 9.30 a.m. and I ask, if possible, to move it to 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u96	Right now it's 9:30. We shall inform the President and give the answer later in the course of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u97	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2447, already approved by the House of Deputies. The speakers, Senators Parrini and Evangelista, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u98	Mr President, I would like to give up the exhibition and ask you for permission to hand over the written intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u99	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u100	Mr President, the part of this extension decree concerning justice is particularly important and, therefore, I prefer to present my report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the provisions of Article 1 concerning the acquisition of telephone and telematic traffic data for criminal investigation purposes. Article 132 of the Code for the protection of personal data is urgently addressed to ensure the possibility of acquiring data relating to telephone and telematic traffic for the purposes of criminal investigation in accordance with the principles set out in the large section of the Court of Justice of the European Union in its judgment of 2 March 2021 and, in particular, to restrict the activities of acquiring criminal proceedings involving serious forms of crime and to ensure that such activities are subject to the supervision of a judicial authority. The Court of Justice's judgment stated that access for criminal purposes to a set of electronic data and communications relating to traffic and location allowing precise conclusions to be drawn on privacy is only authorised in order to combat serious forms of crime or to prevent serious threats to public security and can only be authorised as a result of prior scrutiny of the assumptions made by a judge or an independent administrative entity. In line with the recent judgment of July 2021, with which the Court of Cassation affirmed that the implementation in the legal order of the principles expressed by the Court of Justice requires a legislative intervention that gives positive content to some aspects that the Court has exposed in terms of different modalities of implementation, the Government has considered to intervene with the decree-law on Article 132, paragraph 3, of the privacy code allowing access to traffic data only in the context of criminal investigations for the crimes for which the law establishes the penalty of life imprisonment or imprisonment not less than three years, determined in accordance with Article 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. These are lighter penis than those that allow access to wiretapping. With the modification of paragraph 3 of the aforementioned article 132 of the code, the decree-law also identifies additional prerequisites for the acquisition of traffic data. In relation to these offences, the investigating authority must have already acquired sufficient evidence and traffic data must appear relevant for the continuation of investigations. In the course of the examination in the Chamber it has been previewed that the traffic data must be relevant for the ascertainment of the facts and no longer for the continuation of the investigations. With regard to the second principle expressed by the Court of Justice, and therefore the procedure for the acquisition of data, the decree-law, as amended in the course of the examination in the Chamber, provides that the data can be acquired after authorization granted by the judge by reasoned decree, at the request of the PM or application of the defender of the suspect, of the person offended or of another party. The request must be received within the time limits of storage imposed on the suppliers. The decree-law, replacing the third paragraph, also eliminates the possibility to request access directly to the supplier by the defenders in relation to the users of their clients. In this case, too, the request will have to be submitted and therefore will have to be examined by the judge. The decree-law also provides that, in case of urgency, and therefore when the delay in the acquisition of the data can cause a serious prejudice to the investigations, the PM can directly acquire the data with its own reasoned decree, which must be communicated within forty-eight hours to the judge so that he validates it in the next forty-eight hours, always with a reasoned decree. The Chamber of Deputies then inserted, in Article 132, paragraph 3-c which penalises with the inusability the acquisition of traffic data in violation of the law. With the insertion, instead, in article 1 of the decree-law of paragraph 1 -bis, the Chamber has introduced a transitional norm, that governs the usability of all traffic data: for the data that can be used for the benefit of the accused the current discipline applies at the time of the acquisition. In fact, during the examination at the other branch of the Parliament, the Chamber inserted in Article 1 paragraph 1 -ter with which it intervenes on Article 267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with particular reference to the content of the decree of the judge authorising the interceptions through the so-called trojan computer receiver. Compared to the legislation in force (third period of article 267, paragraph 1), which requires the judge to indicate, when authorizing the use of the trojan, the reasons which make this procedure necessary for the conduct of the investigations, the Chamber added that these reasons must be specific.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u101	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u102	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor because the decree-law on our examination, as you know already approved by the House, is extremely important from the point of view of the provisions concerning the so-called trojans, and in relation to the provisions relating to the acquisition of telephone traffic data. We would like to recall, Mr President, that this passage is important; I understand that perhaps it does not like it, but it has its relevance - what we have discussed with regard to the use of the trojan, and especially the fact that, on the basis of the indiscriminate use of this device, a number of problems arose, both with regard to the person intercepted (and, of course, to his privacy) and in relation to the collection of these data. Today we have amended the text above all following an action carried out by Forza Italia to the House and that has allowed to reach, in summary, thanks to the interventions of the Undersecretaries and the Minister, a very important point: the use can be authorized, but there must be specific reasons that make this mode necessary for the conduct of the investigations. And above all, it is no longer a prosecutor who does so, but there is a request to the magistrate. This means - as I said - that we no longer have an indiscriminate use and that we begin to reason on the effects - which can very often be distorting and devastating - of the application of technology to investigations. I want to remember - I said it before - that, when we talked about the computer picker, it was the magistrates themselves who highlighted the problems related to computer archives, because they are not always present and safe in the procurement, especially because they are servers managed practically by private individuals. The other changes introduced by the House and which are certainly relevant, thanks to the judgment of the European Court which concerned - I would like to remind you - not an Italian case but a case arising in Estonia, concern the provisions on the acquisition of telephone traffic data. Here too, the principles of urgency have been introduced following the proclamation of European justice, in the sense that there must be authorisations when fighting serious forms of organised crime or, in any case, serious threats to public security must be prevented. Again, authorisation must come from a judge or in any case from an independent authority. We therefore move towards what must be the necessary caution and guarantee in cases where such invasive tools are used as the acquisition of data relating to telephone traffic or location, location or other, or the means of communication that are used, because it is right that there should be a balance between the privacy of people, on the one hand, and the fight against serious forms of crime, on the other. Above all, in this regard too, the principle that it is the prosecutor who must require a judge to intervene has been introduced. This means that there are always clear reasons and above all there is no indiscriminate use. This leads to the modification, through the decree-law in question, of Article 132 of the privacy code, which at this point allows access to traffic data only for certain crimes that provide for the sentence of life imprisonment or imprisonment not less than three years, and then other crimes that concern the serious threat (however, also in this case it must be clear the concept of gravity of the threat). In addition, it is required that there be sufficient clues: we know how important this aspect is because, otherwise, we have found ourselves very often in the most disparate situations and for the most disparate people to have to discuss the motivation for which certain interceptions were made, which then had to be transcribed and interpreted, and which in the end were obviously found in the press. We therefore believe that, thanks to the work done in the House, a course certainly virtuous, indeed I would like to say balanced. This decree-law marks not an extraordinary success, in one sense or another, but it marks, in my opinion, the start of a period of reasonableness and reasonableness is important in civil life. In fact, there can be no tools used as if we were at the time of the French Revolution or in a dark period, where a suspect is already in itself a negative clue. We have the tools that technology makes available to us and these certainly have their relevance for the investigation, but they must be used in the respect of the person, his private life and constitutional principles. This is the age of reasonableness, so we are happy, from this point of view, that a path of reason has been taken, that I hope is the clear sign of the change of pace compared to a period that our country has passed in the Jacobine fury, which has led to little results. I would like to conclude by reminding you that all the forecasts of increased penalties that Parliament has approved (without our vote), such as the draconian ones relating to the income of citizenship (but I could give a lot of other examples), have ultimately never produced results, because we need civil conscience, reasonableness and the culture of mutual respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is not much attention at this time in this House. I also take the floor after listening to the speech by a colleague from the Group and then my colleague from the Commission, Senator Vitali, will give an explanation of vote on behalf of Forza Italia. I must admit that this is not one of the draft laws that we are most passionate about; it is in fact a decree-law that brings together different themes and introduces some extensions on uneven topics, such as referendum, temporary cheque and IRAP. However, these measures also have their own reason, they make sense and must therefore be addressed, discussed and voted on in Parliament. Of course, this is one of those measures that have been embodied in the House of Members, so it was our fellow Members who dealt with the Commission more meaningfully and, above all, much more significantly than its examination. The Forza Italia Group has made a significant contribution to this measure and some of the amendments proposed by the Forza Italia Group to the Chamber of Deputies have then been voted in favour and are now part of the text in our examination, in a system of substantial de facto monocameralism, in which we are now operating since we are in a pandemic period. It is clear and clear that little has been done at this stage, at second reading, in the Senate. Today we discussed in the Commission an amendment (with respect to which we have also tabled an agenda) to try, as the Forza Italia Group, to introduce an issue, which is a matter of pure merit and which sees us, as always, as protagonists in relation to the activity of those who produce, of those who work, of those who try to make GDP, to improve the economic conditions of this country. In fact, the Forza Italia Group deposited it here in the Senate, then at second reading, well aware that, in this phase of substantial imperfect monocameralism, it would in fact be almost impossible, given the imminent expiry of the decree-law, which could be accepted. I'm here, though, remembering that. Forza Italia has not forgotten those small businesses, that world of catering and companies that, especially during the Christmas period, what goes essentially from December 15 to Epiphany, are facing initiatives that we hope can be carried out. This is what those who received the third dose of Covid-19 vaccine the day before yesterday say and do not hide it: Mr Ferro, since there are many who hide it, I say it openly, because I believe in vaccines, dear President Bernini, and I think that we who make politics, when we believe in it, must say certain things. We must make our constituents understand how we feel about it, without any fear and without getting caught up in it. These businesses and families - they are also family businesses - live mainly on occasions that bring together people, for whom they may need temporary, very short recruitment. The introduction of the voucher in this period, as explained to me today, in a more than exhaustive way, my colleague Gallone, would be fundamental for certain activities that deal with catering and welcoming people and need staff, but for one or two evenings, for a very short time. The Government and the rapporteur gave an opinion against this amendment, so the Commission voted against it. Of course, once it was adopted, it meant that the measure would return to the House of Deputies and perhaps there would be no time for the law to be enacted or passed in time. Only the agenda that the Government, by the voice of Secretary Sisto, whom I thank because it listens to us carefully, has accepted as a recommendation is accepted. We would have wanted something more, a further effort; I do not hide it from you, dear exponent of the Dragon Government. This is certainly a very composite majority, for which putting everything together is not a simple thing, we are well aware of it. In meeting time needs, our agenda provided for a one-month period, from mid-December to mid-January: basically, something more could have been done. Other commitments are contained in this measure. I have to say that the Forza Italia Group in the House of Deputies, through our colleagues who have skilfully worked on this text in the Commission, has been able to introduce changes that meet a guarantee requirement, to which, of course, our political movement has always been associated and which is increasingly approaching the so-called reform of Cartabia in the field of justice. We hope that this reform can be packaged as soon as possible, also because the European Union is waiting for our country to give a clear and unequivocal signal, not only guaranteeing, but also providing for certain times, certain figures and just process. In this direction, we are also trying to limit the damage of an excess of justiceism which has forged some past legislative measures. We think differently, and every time we have the opportunity and the opportunity to mark the distance from a position characterized by populism, demagogy and justiceism, we face these issues with a harsh stance of contrast, because we like politics, so we fight anti-politics and all those who want to make believe that those who do politics do it for personal or private interests. I believe that also on this occasion Forza Italia has shown that it is a responsible government force and on this occasion it will vote in favour, as it did in the House of Deputies. We stress the importance of the sense of responsibility that political forces must have in this historical phase, so delicate and fundamental for the future of our country and our people. It is for this reason that we never forget that it is absolutely essential to continue along the path outlined by the measures on the fight against the Covid and especially green passes, which we continue to support to the full, because they are the only way out of the pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u106	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us contains a number of requirements, on which I will make some reflections, on the protection of privacy and the purpose of justice, in particular Article 1. Significant was the amendment of Article 132 of the Code on the protection of personal data in order to restrict access to telephone and telematic traffic data for the purposes of the criminal investigation, allowing it only for serious or specific offences and always requiring the authorisation or validation of the judge. The intervention is determined by the urgent need to follow up, in particular, a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is therefore expected that the acquisition of traffic data in violation of the law will be unusable - on this front we have fought - and that a transitional regulation will be introduced concerning traffic data acquired before the entry into force of the text, providing that these can be used at the expense of the accused only together with other evidence and for the determination of serious or specific crimes. A further amendment concerns the content of the court's decree authorising interceptions via the computer receiver, the so-called trojan, providing that the reasons which make this procedure necessary for carrying out investigations should be analytical and specific. It should be noted that Article 132 of the Code on the protection of personal data, on which we have particularly focused our attention, regulates the obligation of providers of electronic communications services to keep traffic data for the next twenty-four months, for the twelve months the data relating to electronic traffic and for the thirty days the data relating to unanswered calls for the purposes of detection and repression of offences. By way of derogation from this rule, for the purpose of ascertaining and combating more serious crimes of association with criminals and terrorism, the data retention period shall be set in seventy-two months. These are substantial changes. Despite the obligation to retain data concerning traffic (so-called records) and not the content of communications, it is clear that it is still personal data, suitable to reveal much of the privacy of the user, thus verifying the opposition, of which I said in premise, between the protection of privacy and the purposes of justice. The necessary balance between these two values has been achieved by providing that the acquisition of these data with the supplier can be carried out by a reasoned decree of the public prosecutor also at the request of the defender of the accused, of the person subject to the investigation, of the person offended and of the other private parties. The lawyer of the suspect may also request directly from the supplier the data relating to the users registered to his/her assistant and the request for access to incoming telephone communications can be made only when it can result in an effective and concrete prejudice for the conduct of the defensive investigations: in all other cases, the same interested person may exercise the rights provided for in the Regulation of the European Union through the Guarantor. As explained, the Government has therefore intervened and we have worked urgently on this front and in particular on Article 132 of the Code for the protection of personal data, to ensure the possibility of acquiring data relating to telephone and telematic traffic for the purposes of the criminal investigation, in compliance with the principles laid down by the Court of Justice of the European Union in its recent judgment of March 2021, and in particular to limit the acquisition activities to criminal proceedings involving serious forms of crime and to ensure that those activities are subject to the control of a judicial authority. The judgment I have just referred to has stated the principle that access for criminal purposes to a set of electronic communications data relating to traffic or location, which allow precise conclusions to be drawn on privacy, is only authorised in order to combat serious forms of crime or to prevent serious threats to public security and can only be authorised after prior checking of the premises, carried out by a judge or an independent administrative entity, other than the authority requesting access to data. However, the national rule, referred to in Article 132 of the Privacy Code, does not appear to comply with the principle set out by the Court of Justice, since it allows access to traffic data for investigation purposes for any possibility of crime. Some doubts, even during the examination, arose in relation to the conformity with the European Union's order of acquisition, following the simple request of the prosecutor, without the examination of the judge, with the consequent and known uncertainties of the jurisprudence regarding the current applicability of the same Article 132. Consequently, the decree-law intervenes on the third paragraph of Article 132 of the Privacy Code, allowing access to traffic data only in the context of criminal investigations for certain offences for which the law establishes the penalty of life imprisonment or imprisonment not less than three years, determined in accordance with Article 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and for offences of threat, harassment and disturbance to persons by telephone, when the threat, harassment or disturbance is serious. The text therefore allows, even in the face of less serious crimes, that on paper do not integrate serious forms of crime or the prevention of serious threats to public security, the acquisition of traffic data, but subordinate it to the requirement of the seriousness of the threat, the harassment and the disturbance. With the modification of this article we have identified therefore ulterior conditions for the acquisition of traffic data. In relation to the above, the investigating authority must have already acquired sufficient evidence - this is a very significant step - and the same data will have to appear relevant for the continuation of the investigations. A change has foreseen that traffic data will have to be relevant to ascertain the facts and no longer for the continuation of investigations. In short, these are clear elements, while respecting and following European constitutional and legal principles. Although in this difficult perimeter of action, during the conversion phase of the decree-law under consideration, I believe that, in particular on certain points of the measure, such as Article 1, on which I have focused, we have achieved a good result and therefore I thank the Commissions 1a and 2a for their work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u107	She is registered to speak Senator D'Angelo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text we are about to vote on today contains very specific and important provisions, because they defend rules that protect citizens, the municipalities and, in a broader sense, our democracy: I am thinking first of all of the referenda. The one month extension, contained in the decree-law, for the deposit of the signatures necessary for the submission of a referendum and the consequent postponement of the terms for the verification of the validity of the signatures necessary for the presentation of the referendum represent measures strongly desired and defended by the Movimento 5 Stars. We all know the difficulty that many municipalities have experienced in carrying out their own practices, especially because of the conjunction with the local elections and in general because of the problems associated with the pandemic that unfortunately all of us are experiencing. On the other hand, these delays would have been made to pay to the citizens who have spent their time promoting the referendum and in general to all Italian citizens, whose right to democratic participation would have been compromised by bureaucratic constraints incompatible with the historical period we are living. Like Movimento 5 Stars, therefore, we are proud to have once again defended such an important institution for our democracy as that of the referendum and we regret - it will allow me, President - having had to note that other political forces have sought in a surreptitious way to prevent the holding of the referendum just because it concerns issues that they do not like. This is not a proper method for carrying out a legitimate political battle: the best is to get down on the street and, if you think so, to campaign for referenda and convince citizens of the goodness of their positions. I say this because in the House, with an amendment, the League, backed by Brothers of Italy, wanted to blow this extension. That is not the way to protect democracy. We have prevented this raid and we are genuinely proud of it. [[Applause]] Mr President, let me express our satisfaction at the extension of the temporary allowance as well. In addition to what has already been established with the application of the family allowance institution, this intervention aims to offer economic support to parents with dependent children, including those adopted or in pre-adoptive custody, reserved for families with ISEE up to 50,000 euros. For the first time, about 2 million families will be able to receive a monthly allowance for their child up to 167 euros, with an increase from the third child or for each child with disabilities. This intervention - a bridge measure pending the single household allowance - will ensure that households, at such a disastrous time, observe the very low birth rates, as well as the dubious economic suffering, a breath of oxygen waiting for the desired cessation of the pandemic emergency state that gripes us. In accordance with the provisions of this decree, the application for the temporary allowance may be made until 31 October, the latter extended in relation to the one originally provided for on 30 September and there may also be recognition of the deferred monthly payments. By means of such predictions, we thus meet the legitimate needs of many families, keeping faith in a commitment before which it was impossible to avoid. Finally, but not least, there is the issue of the acquisition of telephone and telematic traffic data for the purposes of criminal investigation. The examination in the Chamber saw the Movimento 5 Stars protagonist in preventing an attempt to change in a restrictive way in the use of the trojan regarding investigations concerning so-called second-range crimes, but of undoubted seriousness. Regulatory intervention was made necessary by the need to adapt the legal order to a ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union. That judgment affirmed the principle that access for criminal purposes to a set of electronic data and communications relating to traffic or location allowing precise conclusions to be drawn on privacy is only authorised in the first place in order to combat serious forms of crime or to prevent serious threats to public security and can also be authorised only after prior checking of the premises carried out either by a judge or an independent administrative entity. The privacy code does not appear to comply with the first principle, since it allows access to traffic data for any possibility of crime; the second requirement does not seem satisfied, as the prosecutor can currently acquire the data without scrutiny of the judge. The decree, therefore, has healed these inconsistencies through rules that implement a correct balance between the right to privacy and the needs of investigation, limiting their scope, thus allowing access to data in the context of criminal investigations for the offences for which the law establishes a penalty not inferior, in the maximum, to three years, as well as for crimes put in place by the means of the telephone. In all cases, the court's authorization is envisaged, both prior and posthumous (in case of urgency). Madam President, the protection of institutions of direct democracy, measures to support society and the defence of legality are the basis of the policies of Movimento and we will always stand up for their values. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u109	The general debate is closed. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2447 of the conversion of Decree-Law No 132 of 30 September 2021 into the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u111	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 132, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is therefore convened to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.12 p.m. and resumed at 6.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u112	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on justice and extension, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We will proceed directly to the explanations of vote; it will follow the call. At the request of the Brothers of Italy Group, tomorrow's session will begin at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u113	We proceed to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2447 of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 132 of 30 September 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u116	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, today we are about to adopt a decree-law that, in fact, we could consider another omnibus decree, seen and considered that it intervenes in various matters also in a cross-cutting way: we start with justice, we continue with urgent measures in the matter of defence and it ends with some extension, including those of the terms in the matter of referendum and in the matter of temporary allowance for minor children. This is a measure to which we are definitely attached, since it is the result of the excellent work done by Minister Bonetti. However, it must be objectively recognized that the heart of the measure is Article 1, which contains provisions on the acquisition of telephone and telematic traffic data for criminal investigation purposes. It is obviously a nerve point of this measure, not only because it is the one around which the differences with the majority have been accentuated, but also because with this forecast we can finally take a step to ensure that our country actually represents a rule of law and that those rules of the right process are respected, all too often in recent times developed by various interventions that, increasingly, have claimed to affect the guarantees not of the suspects, but above all of the private citizens. I would also like to point out that this regulatory intervention is not an instance coming from a party; it lays down a principle of law which has been clearly stated by the Court of Justice, in its note of March 2021. The enunciated principle is very clear: no public authority can access the data relating to the communication traffic and the location of a user's equipment, so as to trace his private life. That is what we have discussed countless times. In essence, it is not possible - and this principle is now well established - to trace the privacy of a citizen, because this would result in undue violation of the right to privacy and undue intervention in its proper conduct. This violation remains even if the intervention of the authority is aimed at activities of prevention, research, detection and prosecution of crimes, because this access must obviously be limited to procedures aimed exclusively at combating serious forms of crime, or prevention must act against serious threats to public security. In the same judgment, it is also established that the public prosecutor may not be competent to authorize such access, but it must always be the court that has such authorisation. The rule that the prosecution is in exactly the same position as the defense is then brought back to the system; it is the judge who has to determine whether such operations are possible or not. Now, it is clear that Article 1 is a good compromise, although, as always, the rules can be improved. We hope that in time we will arrive at a better balance between the right to privacy and investigative needs, between the exercise of power by the public authority and the freedom of the individual. Surely it is a perfectible norm, as always happens for the norms that are the result of compromise and confrontation between parts that obviously have different ideological positions. It is therefore normal for a compromise to be reached and this, in my opinion, while recognising the perfectability of the standard, is a good compromise. At last, the acquisition can be requested by the prosecutor, but in any case, to give it to you, it is necessary the authorization of the judge. Even if the prosecutor is to act in an urgent manner, as may be the case, for reasons of investigation, if the delay could cause serious danger to the investigative requirements, it is foreseen that the prosecutor may arrange for the acquisition of the data, with a decree that must be justified; but also in this case the judge must intervene ex post, within precise deadlines. It is therefore a controlled activity, which ensures sufficient guarantees on the correctness of the work also of the public prosecutor. It is therefore a good result and is definitely a starting point, through which to arrive at a more detailed solution and examination. I am convinced that those who, like me, attend courtrooms have first of all at heart the will never to abdicate to the founding values of the Constitution. I do not tire of repeating in this House that first of all we must continue to have as a lighthouse, as an illuminating way, respect for the Constitution, those principles that should govern the right process. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, it is all too often that these principles are violated by everyday justice and that many of the guarantees that were placed to protect the accused are removed. Well, we must continue along the path that we have taken today and continue to try, as far as possible, to ensure that the constitutional rules are respected at all stages of the process, from the beginning to the final judgment. Maybe we could have done more, but, objectively, it is already a good result, also because the crimes to which these rules can be applied are those for which the sentence of life imprisonment or imprisonment is provided for in not less than three years. Above all in this second category, my doubts arise, because the Court of Justice had given different indications, providing for crimes with a high crime rate. We, on the other hand, put all the crimes with that sentence into the cauldron. I repeat, however, that this measure is the result of a compromise between ideologically different positions; therefore, we must adhere to this and we must be content with this. I am sure, however, that we will try to put our hand in improving again, because the path has been drawn. I am also puzzled by the delegation provided for in Article 1 on the acquisition of urgent records by the prosecutor. Why my perplexity? Because I would not want this, which should be an exception, as has often happened in situations of this kind, to become the norm in the end and that this measure which we are about to approve today is merely a formal role. We still have to deal with the problem of career separation and many other problems. What he points out, however, is that we are clear about the need to put our hands on these issues again. Today's work on respecting the norms and rights recognised by the Constitution, as well as on other topics that have also been addressed recently (among all, I am thinking of the presumption of innocence), represents a correct context in which we have started a common path. We would have liked more courageous interventions, but this, as I said, is the result of a compromise. Let us move on to this and I am sure that, slowly, we will come to the result that we have at heart, that of defending the rights that the Constitution gives citizens. For this reason, on behalf of Italia Viva-P.S.I., I vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u119	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, even today, in general indifference - just look around - the House is going to vote for yet another confidence. The government continues to be deaf to the warning of the Head of State, who continues to warn unheard that we cannot continue to reduce Parliament to an empty box as you are doing. [[Applause]] The umpteenth confidence, moreover, in a decree-law, also containing an infinite series of rules between them absolutely heterogeneous: from justice, to defence, to referendum, to taxes, to the family. An omnibus decree-law, clearly unconstitutional, because there is no homogeneity of matter. Moreover, the reason why you continue to put trust, even in cases like this, in which there are no more than 20 amendments to be voted on, you made it manifest no later than yesterday, with the exchange of pleasantries - it is said - between the Holding Company of Italy Viva and the Holding Company of the Movimento 5 Stars. If this is the climate that exists in the majority, dear colleagues, Brothers of Italy is very pleased to be in opposition. You guys keep giving this show to the Italians. [[Applause]] On the subject, Article 1 is certainly necessary because we have to adapt to a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We are therefore aware that this rule had to be presented and approved, but we have tried to make it better. This rule refers in fact to sufficient clues of crime to justify the acquisition of the records, while, as far as interceptions are concerned, Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure speaks of serious clues. Therefore, we do not understand why to authorize the interceptions, which are certainly more invasive than the phone records, we need the serious clues, while to acquire the phone records sufficient clues are sufficient. There is absolutely no consistency between the existing rules and that which you are introducing. We agree with the specification, contained in Article 1, on the reasons, referred to in Article 267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which make it necessary to use the Trojan virus, which is inoculated into laptops in order to pick up conversations between the people present. I repeat, it is right to predict that the reasons should be specific. However, I remember that the trojan is absolutely dangerous and invasive. The technicians, at the time, have explained to us that it is not only possible to receive and listen to conversations, but that there are even tools to introduce inside the portable device of the material, making it appear as produced by its owner. On the subject of referendums, we have tabled amendments to prevent the extension of the deadlines for the collection of signatures and, above all, for the bureaucratic procedures for the referendum by which we want to legalize the sale of cannabis and even rape drugs, which is in the same table as cannabis which the referendary question refers to. No scandal in this, as he wanted to support the Movimento 5 Stars with the intervention of my colleague D'Angelo. We have also tabled Amendment 3.9, which aims to maintain the deadline for the collection of signatures by 30 September. Therefore, the requirements were one account and the signatures were another. We do not understand why it is necessary to facilitate the collection of signatures on a question that will be disruptive for our younger generations, which will receive the message that drug abuse is lawful, does not hurt and - indeed - for some people it is almost a restorer. We don't think so at all. [[Applause]] You have rejected all our amendments and even Amendment 4.2, which proposed to increase the temporary allowance for each minor child from EUR 50 to EUR 100. We're talking about children with disabilities. I repeat: you have also voted against this amending proposal and it is a disgrace. [[Applause]] You have also voted against our amendment 5.0.1, which proposed extending the time limits for payment of debit cards. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to explain this: I would like someone to explain it to me. Mr Undersecretary, who is so busy writing while speaking the only opposition, could, for example, explain why the state of emergency does not apply to you when it comes to putting your hands in the pocket of people in difficulty. The state of emergency applies to everything, but it no longer applies when you put your hands in the pocket of people in difficulty. Someone should explain to me what this state of emergency is, intermittently. I would like to add that we have also signed amendment 4.0.2 with the first signature of Senator Bernini, signed by many other colleagues. We have added my signature and that of my colleagues, Mr Malan and Mr Maffoni, to the Commission, because we are convinced that this proposal was and remains right. It is in fact a proposal aimed at exceptionally allowing occasional work during the Christmas period, from 30 November to 10 January, through the exceptional tool of vouchers. Ladies and gentlemen, businesses do not find workers and on Christmas holidays there is a risk that they will not have sufficient workers in the fields of trade, tourism and hotels, because young people are on the couch or working in black, because many people receive their citizenship income, under the criminal law that you launched in this House at the beginning of the parliamentary term. [[Applause]] You have certainly accepted our agenda on interceptions, because so much as an agenda is not denied to anyone and it would have been a mere effort to deny the scandal, which has been denounced in recent weeks by the Copasir, of the contracts concluded by the courts with firms specializing in telephone interceptions, but which are not controlled by anyone. According to data from 2020, out of 140 courts only one submitted six contracts to the Court of Auditors. [[Applause]] These costs are very high: Italy is a world leader in wiretapping spending and there is no control over these contracts, on the conformity of expenditure and also on the reliability of the companies to which these delicate tasks are entrusted, since the choice falls within the total discretion of the heads of offices and prosecutors. Colleagues, we would have liked to have discussed all this in this House and to have our amendments examined and adopted. This is democracy, this is democratic confrontation, and Parliament should serve this purpose and not be reduced to merely a letterhead from the Government, as you have reduced it, by closing down any possibility of dialogue, confrontation and constructive contribution to the rules which, from time to time, are submitted to the examination and vote of this House. That is also why we will vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u122	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote strongly in favour of converting this decree-law into law and, in making the explanation of vote on behalf of the Group, I would like to refer to three points in the converted decree-law, which I consider to be very important. They are important, because, among the folds of a merely seemingly very technical intervention, we are giving really important answers to three questions, which come from the citizens of the country: a demand for a stronger guarantee of rights, especially the right to confidentiality, a demand for political participation and a demand for support. The request for a stronger guarantee of rights is addressed by Article 1 of the Decree in conversion, which intervenes in a very sensitive matter: the possibility to acquire data relating to telephone traffic to investigations and criminal proceedings. The rule that we introduce confirms the possibility to acquire such data until the expiry of the period within which the supplier is obliged to keep them. At the same time, however, the amendment introduced by the decree-law strengthens the procedural guarantee of the right to confidentiality and in what way? The acquisition to the investigations by decree of the public prosecutor is in fact replaced by a decree authorized by the judge that must be motivated and can be adopted at the request of the pm or at the request of the defender of the accused, of the person subject to investigation, of the person offended or of the other private parties. Only if there are grounds for urgency or if there is reason to believe that the delay could result in serious prejudice to the investigations, the prosecutor shall arrange for the acquisition of the data by a reasoned decree, which shall be communicated within 48 hours to the judge, who shall nevertheless have to validate it. If these methods are not respected, the data acquired are unusable in the process, therefore a real guarantee. Between the rights to confidentiality and the needs related to the investigation and the prosecution, is thus found a high balance fully respectful of the constitutional guarantees, with the involvement of the judge always and the sanction of the inusability. This is an important improvement in our view, which, as I said, goes in the direction of a greater guarantee of the rights of persons subject to investigations and criminal proceedings. The second question to which the decree in conversion responds is a request for political participation. I refer to Article 3, which extends the deadlines for referendums. In the last glimpse of the summer, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a new phenomenon, absolutely unprecedented: in a few weeks, thanks to the introduction of the possibility of signing the referendum with the Spid, two very important questions - the one on cannabis and the one on the end of life - have reached a truly incredible number of signatures, so high that it has become necessary to move forward for a month exceptionally the strict terms governing the referendary procedure. It was right to do so in order to take this signal of attention to a spontaneous movement in our population, which concerns - not by chance - rights issues, those rights - forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, the harshness - on which this Parliament - it hurts me to admit - cannot touch the ball. From the end of life to the ius soli to the rights of women to the rights of LGBT people, Italy is firm, progressing with an exasperating slowness. We are now the taillight in Europe, even ridiculed in some contexts for the obscurantism in which we continue to live. Not to mention - this hurts me even more - than when we give ourselves as a Parliament, of us as a Senate even a spectacle that many people have called unworthy, such as that shameful applause of just three weeks ago on the so-called Zan trap. Someone applauded the interruption of the rights of other people who wanted to be protected from hatred. [[Comments. Applause]] What has happened with these referendums, ladies and gentlemen, must make us think, because the world outside is far ahead of us, it is far ahead of so many of you. From the country there is a strong demand for freedom, self-determination, liberation from all obscurantism, equality of rights. What are we gonna do? Do we want to continue ignoring it or do we want to ensure that these requests, supported by hundreds of thousands of signatures, enter these Palaces with a new wind of justice? The country is trying to ring us the alarm; we did well therefore to widen the links of referendaria participation and we did well to extend the terms of the procedure. We would do even better, however, ladies and gentlemen, to have a glimpse of pride and to give Italy the laws of freedom that it deserves and that we are asked: a law that fully protects the dignity of the end of life, so that we can die without sacrificing ourselves and our dignity, even in the last breath, and a law that legalizes and regulates the cultivation and use of cannabis, the only true way to fight drug trafficking and the pockets of illegality and delinquency (the so-called cash machine of the thighs). I shall conclude, Madam President. We have also remained silent about this; we have become enveloped in a conflict, an ideology, a desire to decide not to decide, which is the worst thing a Parliament can do. Parliament is a Parliament and cannot give up debate and reason; and reasoning on these issues, ladies and gentlemen, is what people's lives are asking of us out there. They ask us for rights, and I think we should think. The third and last question to which this decree-law responds is a request for support. I refer to Article 4, which extended to 30 October the deadline for applying for the temporary allowance for minor children, that bridge allowance which will be replaced, starting from January 2022, by the new universal allowance. In this case, too, the decree-law meets the families, extending the period for applying for the allowance by one month. It may only seem like a technicality; it is instead a sign of attention, also important, to people's lives. Guarantees, participation, rights and social justice are the key words for the revival of this country. This decree-law shows this and that is why the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u125	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law provides for some extensions necessary to be able to overcome the difficulties triggered by the pandemic. Unfortunately, I must stress that although I understand the reasons of the Government, I have a strong concern about the use of the instrument of the decree-law, which contains certainly uneven rules, some characterized by a dubious urgency. In particular, there was an intervention on the appointment of the Chief of Staff of the Defence, on the reduction of the period of command for the advancement of the officers, on the extension of deadlines for referendums, on the modalities for submitting applications for temporary allowances for minor children, on the extension of the window, without sanctions and interest, in order to be able to pay the IRAP until 30 November 2011. Wow, that's the same thing. On the other hand, Article 1 responds to the need to align our privacy legislation with some important principles recently set out by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Parliament is called upon to intervene on a very sensitive matter, with the aim of achieving a proper balance between the need to protect the privacy of citizens and the need to prosecute crimes, by providing effective means for investigations. It is undeniable that the acquisition of records, as well as telephone and environmental interceptions, are a formidable resource for investigators and that for certain crimes are the main, if not the only, instrument through which evidence and evidence can be acquired. The need to refine and improve its use corresponds to the need of the State to be more effective in the pursuit of crimes that have a great impact in our community such as those of a subversive, terrorist or mafia nature. On the other hand, when access to the records and their contents for the purpose of investigation is used, as is logical, in the private sphere of the citizens and, at times, it is certainly done in an invasive way. This requires, therefore, an in-depth reflection on the set of guarantees for those directly or indirectly subject to such controls. Let us not forget that the privacy code already lays down limitations by requiring communications service operators to keep telephone traffic data for only 24 months, for twelve months data relating to telematic traffic, with a seventy-two-month derogation for the detection of only the most serious crimes of mafia and terrorism. The decree that we are going to convert into law limits access to the records, first allowed for all crimes, only to some of them and, however, not with the direct acquisition by the prosecutor, but always requiring permission from the judge. This brings the rules of our privacy code into line with the principles set out by the European judge. In making this adjustment, the Chamber has made some changes to the original decree-law. The acquisition of data for traffic in violation of the law is sanctioned with unusableness and a transitional discipline is introduced concerning the records acquired before the decree-law. These data may be used as evidence against the defendant, but only together with other evidence and, in any case, always for the detection of serious crimes. A civilized country must certainly make the search for truth an indispensable objective of its own living without, however, ever yielding to the temptation to exceed certain limits. From this point of view, I believe that the text we are going to vote on sets a reasonable balance. From a technical point of view, I think it is correct to identify the type of crime subject to this discipline. These are those punished with life imprisonment or imprisonment not less than three years. Unlike what the Court of Justice's ruling on serious forms of crime has said, it is also correct to consider less serious offences than those which endanger public security, but for which recourse to the investigation of the records is indispensable, such as those of threat, harassment, disturbance, but always subjecting them to gravity. I also believe that it is of particular importance that, in case of urgency, the prosecutor can acquire the records directly by means of a reasoned decree and, in any case, within 48 hours to the judge for possible validation within the next 48 hours. Very often, intervention is very urgent in order to acquire this data in relation to certain crimes. Finally, on the use of the trojan, it is established that the judge, when issuing the decree of authorization, must indicate specific reasons that make this mode necessary to move forward in the investigations. The current regulatory action is determined by the need, as we have seen, to follow up a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union through the transposition into our legal system of the principles set out there. Therefore, I conclude by announcing the favorable vote of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Decree-Law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u128	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, I would ask you to make me aware - in the next few days, not now - of the reasons why the Government is asking the question of confidence in such a measure. I can't understand them. These are no reasons for the opposition, as Mr Balboni said; I cannot understand them, because I believe that we have wasted more time in putting the question of trust, with the subsequent meeting of the Leaders, when we would have already approved the measure. I do not want to be here discussing matters that fall within the abyss of those who care about the right to marry the person: all people have the right to be less invaded by third party interventions, even prosecutors. I grew up in the culture of law and respect for certain rules. President, I grew up reading the sentence written by President Grasso and the instruction of the then judge Giovanni Falcone who, without wiretapping, in the fight against the mob, have reached 450 convictions, which have determined a new model. We are now faced with a European directive which had also been affected by a legalist culture, and finally the European Court of Justice, on the basis of Union law, which is also inspired by our constitutional legislation, said that it is wrong, and introduced sacred principles, in the sense that the preservation of the records, except in cases of urgency - which must be justified - cannot be authorized by the prosecutor, but by the judge. That's the logic. For any limitation of rights it cannot be a prosecutor who decides; it must be the judge, with the guarantees of trial and jurisdiction. I think we can't help but agree on that. Has there been any confidence because there was a fear that there would probably still be a halo of justice in this House? I don't think a government can get to this assessment. I will conclude because I think it is pointless to use all the time at my disposal just to show that we are talking. We only have to do what makes sense, what is useful. I cannot, however, fail to tell my colleague, Mr Cirinna, that he cannot claim a position with regard to the Zan bill, as if it were something beyond the confines of reality. I would like to remind my colleague that Forza Italia had proposed - precisely with my signature - clear and precise amendments for the adoption of the Zan bill; they did not want to accept them; they wanted to destroy the possibility of approval. [[Applause]] After that, we come to criticize each other. Personally I did not make great scenes, but I had prepared changes to the text to arrive at a concrete and correct approval, without the smears of that bill. 7.15 p.m. (Follows CALIENDO). So let everyone make bread to bread and wine to wine, in the sense of respect for the truth of the facts. It makes the political speech clearer and simpler, and this gives us the opportunity, as in this case, to vote for a correction of a law that was rather loose. I hope that in the future we will be able to guarantee these principles of freedom without recourse to the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u131	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I immediately declare the Lega Group's vote in favour of this measure and summarize its aspects in a nutshell, indicating also the points that convince us and those that convince us less. First, the first part, that relating to access to telephone and telematic traffic data for the purposes of criminal investigation, sees us favorable insofar as we have finally reduced indiscriminate access to these data - which in theory would be reserved and covered by privacy - and finally allowed it only if there are situations of investigation that foresee the need for it. In particular, this decree-law provides for such access only if it is a matter of combating serious forms of crime or in any case for offences that are punished with a maximum sentence of three years. On this point, however, I would just point out a discrasia, because today Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows in reality the interception of telephone or telematics for non-polluting crimes for which the maximum sentence is five years. So, in our view, it is an anomaly that, in any case, access to telematic communications for crimes with a sentence equal to or greater than three years is possible. It would have been preferable to align ourselves with the rules on interceptions, but it is certainly better than the current situation, which in fact provides for indiscriminate access to telematic communications. In this regard, there is a point that is completely missing in this decree-law and that perhaps it would be appropriate to keep in mind for the future. I am referring to access to a whole other set of data that, daily, using the phone, the computer or the tablet, knowingly or unknowingly we make available to the operators of the platforms; data that are then collected (in an uncontrolled way), sold for consideration and used by online companies to beg for personalized advertising each of us. On all this aspect, which sees each one of us studied, catalogued, scanned and examined, there is absolute clarity and there is no clarity at all. All this is actually left to the arbitration and there is no regulation that has been able to make controllable by the user all this collection of data that very often, as I said, happens without the knowledge of the user of the Network. I think we should consider this as soon as possible. This omnibus decree-law also provides for certain rules concerning the maintenance in service of the leaders of the Armed Forces and also provides for the extension of deadlines for referendums. I would point out that we have succeeded - and I thank the Government for this - in obtaining the adoption of our recommendation on justice costs. This is a very sensitive issue, which in these days has jumped to the honours of the chronicles, also for the provisions contained in the draft budget law. Compared to this aspect we have asked that the Government consider the opportunity to include, in a next measure, the gratuitous issue of the certificates of the judicial record. This is a common sense rule, which we hope the Government will soon want to include in a forthcoming decree-law. I come to the last point, which is what I care about most: the extension of the deadline for applications for temporary allowances for minor children. On this I can only express the annoyance, if not the dismay of the Group that I am representing at the moment. This is the extension of the temporary allowance, that is, the bridge cheque. It means that in spite of promises and assurances, the single household allowance has not yet left. It is true that we have read in these hours that tomorrow should come to the Council of Ministers; and I would add: it is about time! [[Applause]] It was about time the government finally took care of the Italian families, who held a bang in this time of Covid-19 and who are mostly left alone. But, as we have already said before, the measure concerning the single allowance is not enough: it is a first step, but we are still linked to the ISEE, which is a system of calculating the old, unsuitable family wealth, unable to really measure the weight of family loads. We are absurd, so Italian families are first taxed, first drained by tax and then, gracefully, the State returns something in the form of a cheque, in the form of a benefit. But this is not the system we want. We want a structural measure, which intercepts family incomes and leaves them in taxpayers' pockets, to the extent that those incomes are needed to meet the obligations that families have. What are these obligations? Each of the parents has the obligation, established by the Constitution and the civil code, to maintain, educate and educate the offspring. How can we tax money that is used by parents to fulfil a constitutional obligation? This is absurd, which we hope will soon be swept away by the approval of the League's proposal, which is the "family factor" or the flat tax calculated on a family basis. This would be true justice, true tax equity for families. With the single cheque, as it has been approved, we still have another bridge solution, which has been financed, but we do not know how long it will still be, because every year it needs to be refinanced. That is not how family policies are done. I want to reiterate that. We must go towards a structural measure and above all we must not forget what the associations of category (the National Association of Large Families, the Forum of Family Associations, the Association of Family Days and many others) daily point out, namely that with the single cheque many families will go to take less than they previously took with the system of deductions, deductions and family allowances. If making policies for the family means taking away resources for the family, we disagree. We shall vote for this extension of the temporary allowance period for minor children, but we hope that it will lead to the adoption of a measure which is truly final in the interests of families. [[Applause]] and finally to face, in a responsible and attentive way, the real emergency of these times, Senator Cirinna, which is not the emergency of civil rights. The real Italian emergency is the demographic decline, the demographic winter, the empty cribs, the desertification of our country. This is the real emergency and, President, I am sure that this Parliament and this Government will want to take care of it as soon as possible. We will ensure that this happens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u134	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this decree has been amended only in the House cannot help but tell us, even in this House, what has happened in the other branch of Parliament and which has been repeated a few minutes ago in the Commissions here in the Senate. I refer, in particular, to the two main topics in the text. The first is the extension of the time limits for repealing referendums, including that on the legalisation of cannabis. The second argument is the acquisition of telephone and telematic data for criminal purposes, which, I think, is also very important. In the first case, the League and Brothers of Italy, in the House a few weeks ago, tried to reduce the extension of the necessary time limits to conclude all administrative procedures to complete the referendum, which we all know is one of the highest and most important expressions of democratic participation of the Italian people. These procedures saw delays by many municipalities in sending documents relating to their residents to the Court of Cassation. It is obvious, therefore, that these administrations should be given more time to carry out their administrative practices. We keep away from the bad thoughts, which would lead us to assume that the Late Municipalities are only and above all those of center-right. We believe, in fact, Mr President, that, despite the fact that there are still entrepreneurial figures in politics, those in public positions do not fall into blatantly undemocratic behavior. Some more bad thoughts, however, come in us thinking of the content of the referendum that League and Brothers of Italy wanted to sink, that is, the one on the legalization of cannabis. Let us remember, then, two simple things: today cannabis is an illegal business of enormous scope, without control and in the hands of crime and mafias. Everyone knows that. [[Applause]] If there were a bit more civilization and social evolution, instead, this business could be taken away from the mafias and give life to a legal activity, controlled by the State, allowing the birth of many new Italian companies. To those who fill their mouths with work, less taxes, new businesses, I say that these companies would pay taxes unlike the mafia, who sells cannabis, to produce enough to satisfy the needs of personal use, while today, unfortunately, Italy even runs away in the production of cannabis for therapeutic use, with a State - and this is unacceptable - that is not even able to give full answers to the many people who use it to treat serious diseases. [[Applause]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about evolution, economic development and so many new jobs. Cannabis is an area where other countries, unlike Italy, are making huge progress on legal and regulated production. Germany is bathing our noses and covering the market slices that have been discovered, but also San Marino, the tiny San Marino, is bathing Italy's nose and beating us on time. Moreover, left behind, also thanks to this referendum, the narrative that criminalizes hemp and regained a positive image and corresponding to the truth of this plant, can be created an immense ecological industry, ranging from green fuels to the construction of zero impact houses; from food to high nutritional level, to the production of clothing. I have only mentioned some of the ways in which hemp can produce products and foods, with who knows how many jobs, in full respect of the ecological and solidarity transition. Fortunately, after all this, there is good news. Also and especially thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, this deleterious amendment, which would in fact have drowned down the referendum, was rejected. [[Applause]] A huge success, of which we will be able to understand the importance especially in the months to come. Let's move on to the other main topic of the measure that concerns checks on phone records. Let's think about the investigation into the Open Foundation, which we'll be talking about shortly. After the League and Brothers of Italy, she intervened in Senato Forza Italia with an amendment against the computer receivers, the so-called trojans, which are installed on the mobile phones of people investigated to record their conversations. We're talking about thugs, or alleged thugs, that need to be discovered. Needless to say, Trojans are very useful in fighting crime. Let's go see who wants to fight this crime. Mr President, this amendment - and I say this especially to those who are following us outside this House - was trying to limit the use of these bugs until they almost canceled it. And do you know where he was trying to erase the use of these bugs that allowed him to listen to the alleged criminal's phone conversation? Not in the poultry theft investigation, but for much more serious crimes such as environmental, sexual and drug-related crimes. The centre-right wants to cancel the referendum on drug dealing and at the same time prevent the use of the trojan against drug dealers! [[Applause]] But okay, we know them. There are also other serious crimes of violence (I have only remembered a few). The trojan is useful and effective in finding these types of crimes because it is a mobile tool that follows the alleged criminal in his travels. If the amendment of Forza Italia had passed - as I say - to the subject concerned it would have been enough to move to different places to make the recordings made through the bug unusable. In fact, in their intentions this bug could have been activated - this was the only way the prosecutor and the gip could have used the trojan - only at times and places indicated by the millimeter and the cent of a second. Therefore, it would become unusable one millimeter away, with the paradox that for the suspect offender it would have been enough to move a little, in another office or palace, not to be intercepted anymore. These attempts are wonderful in their ugliness. This ambush has also been foiled thanks to the strenuous defense of this very important instrument of fighting crime carried out by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I would like to thank my colleagues who have understood the importance of this victory. This is even more of a success if we match what emerged in recent days in the investigation of the Open Foundation with an e-mail - we have talked about it, but we have to repeat it because it does not seem to me that there is enough talk - sent in 2017 by journalist Rondolino to the then secretary of PD Renzi, in which it was planned to destroy the reputation of some MoVimento 5 Stars and some journalists even through the use of a private investigator and fake profiles that relied on foreign servers that could not be controlled by Italy. How important this trojan is! These are resounding and very serious facts which would have been treated as such by politics and the press as a whole if the recipients had not been representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars, but politicians of other parties. [[Applause]] On the other hand, an almost tombal silence prevailed. Returning to the Trojans, it is important to remember that already today their use is subject to specific conditions and that it is quite clear that this instrument serves to protect honest citizens from criminals. This can only be done with state-of-the-art devices. Or does Forza Italia plan to intercept the alleged criminals with instruments of twenty or thirty years ago? Ladies and gentlemen, the world has changed and if we want to combat crime we must provide suitable means for our justice workers. [[Applause]] We must do this especially today because, with more feminicides, environmental crimes and greater risks of mafia infiltration in the many yards of the Italian Recovery, the level of controls must increase and not decrease. (The sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and Today, Mr President, we must stop this criminal drift and this first but important battle in defense of interceptions we have brought home. That is why we will vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law, which protects referendums and protects honest people from criminals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u135	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u136	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2447 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 132 of 30 September 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders on 16 November, each Senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. Of course, the restoration of the usual voting procedures does not undermine the need to comply with security measures. I would therefore remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber - and I will stop for a moment to make it clear to my colleagues at the centre of the Chamber that we cannot do so - and in the vicinity of access to the Bureau. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Pavanelli is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Pavanelli. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, please, not to call you back during the vote and therefore: no assembly in the centre of the Chamber and no assembly at the beginning of the passage under the Presidency. MARGIOTTA, secretary, make the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2447, of conversion into law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 132 of 30 September 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorable 210 Contrari 30]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 132.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-380.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 18 November, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.21 p.m.
