ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak on the order of business in order to recall Roberto Calasso, editor, writer and great Italian intellectual, who died a few days ago. Many of the last generations have grown in the books that Calasso, with extraordinary intuition, chose and published with magnificent pastel color covers. In the difficult events of Italian publishing, always struggling with our limited reading indexes, the Adelphi brand has stood out for sixty years. And it was precisely the breadth of the cultural interests of Roberto Calasso that imposed in the Adelphi catalogue the presence of texts only apparently heterogeneous: literature and poetry; mathematics and history; physics and metaphysics; science and philosophy of ancient Greek, Latin, Indian, Chinese and even Babylonian cultures; all in the continuous search for those links and references that could give unity and coherence to such an unusual production. Calasso has been an unicum in Italian publishing in recent decades. It is natural that publishing houses reflect the personalities of the publishers who founded them. It was like this with Arnoldo Mondadori, Giuseppe Laterza, Giulio Einaudi, Angelo Rizzoli, Giangiacomo Feltrinelli, Livio Garzanti and Valentino Bompiani: the names that have dominated the Italian publishing scene for years and years. To these giants we must add Roberto Calasso, who, however, for the quality and cultural profile of Adelphi, was a case in itself, and not only in the Italian publishing world, but also in the much more aggressive international panorama. Adelphi was born in that special creative and creative atmosphere of the early 1960s of Italy of the last century. In particular, it was born from the encounter, today unthinkable, of some of the most eminent personalities who made great the years of the second Italian war: the culture and the depth of vision of Roberto Bazlen and Luciano Foà, but also the skilful imprint of Giorgio Colli and Mazzino Montinari, together with the financial drive of Roberto Olivetti. From those basic columns was born the interweaving that allowed Roberto Calasso, even a little more than twenty years old, to create and grow a publishing house where the cultural strength has developed along with the rules of the market. As has been said, Adelphi has produced many beautiful books over the decades and readers have bought those books. In the publishing world Calasso was in a certain way a heretic and certainly a loner. He could create a best seller by publishing the work of an unknown author, but he has never searched for the scoop to sell, nor has he ever made the ranking of the best-selling books the criterion of his choices. He has always trusted little of fashionable cultural currents, just as he has always kept himself away from false cultures. He built Adelphi starting from the original inspiration of Bazlen and Foà and the foresight of Roberto Olivetti. He had an incomparable ability to find or invent authors and themes that he considered necessary and that, inserted in his catalogue, made him a great unitary work, where everything, even the different and the opposite, was held together in a very solid interweaving of bonds and references. Roberto Calasso is the author of that great collective cultural work that is the Adelphi catalogue. Italy in the coming decades will need the success of the Rebirth and Resilience Plan, the victory over the Covid-19, many new jobs and the strengthening of the economic system. But the disappearance of Roberto Calasso reminds us that only robust cultural roots like those that he gave us can guarantee solidity and durability to our future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u9	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, like Ulysses, Roberto Calasso, who left us last week and whom we rightly remember in this House today, has been a lot of things together: a man of multifaceted ingenuity. He was a formidable scholar, an extraordinary writer, an open and sensitive intellectual, a far-sighted entrepreneur, a courageous publisher, a true discoverer of talents, a tenacious innovator, while always remaining faithful to the publishing house, Adelphi, founded in the early 1960s with Luciano Foà and Bobi Bazlen. To the latter he also dedicated an affectionate remembrance, with a book published just on the day of his death, titled "Bobi" whose reading I may recommend. As it was rightly written, Calasso was the last epigono of that publishing made of and by publishers, which first has in mind the book and which has as its ultimate objective not only the economic result, which was also achieved, but also a real cultural program, in the highest and noblest sense of the word, what is implemented precisely through the book. Thus, in the often stormy sea of Italian publishing, Roberto Calasso has become a new Homeric reference, since he has been able to drive his boat, Adelphi, safely, professionally and intelligently to a certain port. Calasso gave lustre to our country, which we are sure will not forget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u10	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2308 and 2309. The rapporteurs, Senators Pesco and Faggi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 2308, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u11	Mr President, the general state statement is the accounting document through which the Government is accountable to Parliament for the results of budgetary management. In accordance with Articles 35 and 36 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, the statement, articulated for missions and programmes, consists of two parts: the balance sheet account, which sets out the results of the management, i.e. the actual amount of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget compared to the forecasts approved by Parliament, and the general account of the assets, which shows the changes in the size of the assets and liabilities constituting the assets of the State. A statement of revenue and a supplementary note setting out the results of the management shall be annexed to the accounts for each administration. The analysis of the contents of the bill shows that the management of competence achieved in 2020 a worsening of all the balances, both with respect to the financial year 2019, and with respect to the initial forecasts. We know that this is due to all the expenses we have had to bear in managing the pandemic. In particular, the net balance to be financed, given the difference between final revenue and final expenditure, shows in 2020 a negative value of around 270.9 billion, with a deterioration of more than 273.2 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2019; the year in which, in contrast to previous years, a net credit of 2.3 billion had been recorded. This deterioration, the result of a reduction in final revenue of around 6%, and a significant increase in final expenditure of almost 40% - colleagues, this is a very significant fact - has been determined by the extraordinary and urgent measures taken during the year to deal with the consequences of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19. This emergency has required a progressive updating of the balances approved by Parliament and the deterioration of the balance, when compared with the initial forecasts, which indicated a value of -78.6 billion euros, is equal to about 192.3 billion euros. Also the public saving (balance of the current transactions, that, if positive, measures the share of current resources market to the financing of the expenses in account capital), that in 2020 is at -105,5 billion euros, denotes a worsening of 155,4 billion euros regarding 2019. This situation has been determined by an increase in current expenditure of +117.4 billion euros, as a result of a decrease in total tax and extra-tributary revenue of -38 billion euros. The deterioration is more than €65 billion when compared with the initial forecasts. Finally, the figure of the use of the financial market, i.e. the difference between the final entries and the total expenditure, including those relating to the repayment of loans, was -506,9 billion euros in 2020, showing a deterioration of 289,3 billion euros compared to 2019 and 193,4 billion euros compared to the initial forecasts. The maximum limits set for the net balance to be financed and for the use of the market by the Budget Act for the financial year 2020 - were initially indicated, respectively, in -79,500 million euros for the net balance to be financed and in -314,340 million euros for the use of the market - were progressively updated during the financial year by the emergency measures adopted to deal with the consequences of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19. Overall, the budgetary deviations have re-established the maximum limits of the net balance to be financed and the use of the market, respectively to -341,000 million euros and -599.840 million euros in terms of competence. However, these maximum values have been respected by the results of the financial management 2020, which show, for both balances, a significant improvement compared to the final forecasts, including the deviations authorised by Parliament. The worsening of the net balance to be financed - mentioned above - comes from a management of competence 2020 that shows a considerable increase in the commitments of the final expenditures, pairs to 236,8 billion euros more, and a decrease in the final revenue surveys, pairs to -36,4 billion euros compared to the previous year. Looking instead to the total revenues - it is necessary to do so - the size of the surveys, pairs to approximately 943 billion euros, has turned out instead in increase regarding 2019, for an increase of 77.5 billion euros, because of the increase of the investigations of the revenues from ignition loans. On the expenditure side, the large growth in both final and overall 2020 commitments from €823.2 billion in 2019 to €1.076.1 billion in 2020 is the result of measures to address the pandemic-induced emergency. As I said, therefore, total revenue stands at 943,5 billion euros, an increase of about 77 billion euros compared to 2019, thanks to the development of the revenues for the ignition of loans, which show an increase of 43.7%. On the basis of a summary analysis of the comparison between 2020 and 2019, relating to the development of the final revenues established, the first is the significant reduction of the tax revenue surveys, amounting to -33,2 billion euros. In the tax sector there is a considerable decrease, compared to 2019, of the revenues relative to taxes and taxes on the business, pairs to approximately - 20 billion euros, that therefore corresponds to a decrease of 10.7%, to the taxes on the production, the consumption and customs, pairs to -5,2 billion euros, and those on the lottery, lotteries and other activities of game, pairs almost -5 billion euros. Extra-tributary revenues include the reduction of those resulting from recoveries, reimbursements and contributions, amounting to -5.5 billion euros. The final expenditure commitments, consisting of total current and capital expenditure, have increased from €603.3 billion in 2019 to €840 billion, an increase of 39.2% compared to 2019, an amount of about €237 billion, reaching an impact on GDP of 50.9%. This increase in commitments concerns both current and capital expenditure. In particular, current-account expenditure generated commitments of around 670.9 billion, a sharp increase (117 billion) compared to 2019, as well as capital expenditure commitments, which grew compared to 2019 by 119 billion and stood at 169.2 billion. Considering the repayment of financial liabilities, up by 16.1 billion in 2019, total spending commitments amounted to 1,076.1 billion, an increase compared to those of the previous year by about 30.7 percent. The weight of total expenditure on GDP increased from 46 percent in 2019 to 65.2% in 2020. Turning to the analysis by economic category of management data, it is noted that, in the context of current expenditure, the largest item is that relating to transfers to public administrations, with commitments of more than 338 billion euros, equal to about 55% of current expenditure. These are mainly transfers to local administrations. In addition, income from employees, which amounts to 97.3 billion, and interest payable on capital, which is 66.4 billion, are reported. With specific reference to the dynamics of current expenditure, it is noted that the categories that show the greatest increases are those relating to current transfers to public administrations, current transfers to enterprises, current transfers to private households and social institutions. The passive interest charges are falling from 68.4 billion in 2019 to 66.6 billion in 2020 - 2.5%, and this is another significant figure - continuing the trend that had characterized the previous years. As far as capital expenditure is concerned, the figures show a considerable increase in commitments, from 49.8 billion to 169.2 billion - which is also very significant - referring to 92.6 billion to "Financial asset acquisitions" and 16.4 billion to investment grants to enterprises. In the course of the year, the management of competence is accompanied by the management of residues. The revenue established but to be paid and to be collected, and the expenditure committed but to be paid, are defined as residual assets. In the case of residues, it is necessary to distinguish between those from previous years and those formed during the financial year concerned (residuals of new training). The so-called own passive residues are distinguished from the improper ones, even those passive waste of appropriation. As far as the residue part is concerned, however, I would refer you back to the text of my speech, which I give so that you can remain in the proceedings. It is a very important part, because it concerns a phenomenon that needs to be analysed in depth, which I leave to my colleagues to read. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u12	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2309, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft settlement law is governed by Article 33 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance and is intended to update in the middle of the year the budgetary forecasts made to current legislation, also on the basis of the size of the assets and liabilities established in the accounts. The update therefore concerns revenue, the possible revision of revenue estimates, expenditure - limited to the discretionary component - and the effects of any need. As of 2017, the draft settlement law is also accompanied by a technical report, which takes into account the consistency of the value of the net balance to be financed with the policy objectives set out in the Document on Economics and Finance (DEF). As regards the content, the bill of settlement consists of two articles: the first introduces, in the estimates of revenue and estimates of expenditure of the Ministries approved by the Budget Act for 2021, the changes resulting from the tables annexed to the Article; Article 2 makes an amendment to Article 3 of that Budget Act, concerning the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, providing for a reduction of EUR 200 million for the year 2021 of the reserve fund for the integration of cash authorisations. In the annex to the bill is also highlighted, for cognitive purposes, the evolution in terms of competence and cash of the individual balance sheet items, as a result of both the changes made under administrative acts until 31 May, and the variations proposed with the bill of settlement itself. Coming now to the analysis of the financial results, the proposed budgetary changes with the measure under consideration together with those made in the period from 1 January to 31 May by administrative acts, together with the financial effects of the legislative measures adopted after the adoption of the budgetary law, such as the so-called decree reorder Ministries, define the forecast laid down for 2021 for which Parliament authorised the use of debt. In terms of competence, the proposed changes with the bill of settlement result in a worsening of the net balance to be financed, corresponding to the difference between final revenue and final expenditure compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law, which stands at a value of -232.8 billion compared to an initial forecast of -193,5 billion. The deterioration of about 40 billion is due to changes by administrative act compensated by an improvement of 1.3 billion proposed by the bill of settlement. In particular, the worsening caused by changes in administrative acts is mainly due to the effects of the decree-laws adopted to deal with the epidemiological emergency from Covid, for which Parliament authorised the use of debt through the adoption of appropriate resolutions. Overall, they increase final expenditure by more than EUR 41.5 billion. Other balances also show a negative trend. Public savings, i.e. the difference between current and current expenditure before interest, have deteriorated by 36.5 billion compared to the initial forecast. As regards variations by administrative act, these also lead to a worsening of the net balance to be financed by 40.6 billion, in terms of competence, resulting from an increase in final expenditure. With regard to expenditure, changes by administrative act result in an increase in the final budget appropriations, to the extent of EUR 41.5 billion, of which EUR 39 billion increase in current expenditure and EUR 2.4 billion increase in capital expenditure. In terms of competence, the changes proposed by the settlement bill result in a change in the net balance to be financed by 1.3 billion compared to the balance resulting from the budget law. As far as final revenue is concerned, the draft settlement law proposes an increase of 1.5 billion compared to the forecasts made by the budget law 2021. Tax revenues mainly reflect the adjustment of DEF 2021 estimates with a decrease of EUR 461 million, plus a further reduction of EUR 356 million following monitoring of actual revenue developments. Overall, a reduction of 818 million was achieved. On the whole, extra-tributary revenue increased by 2.5 billion, as a result of the better evolution, in particular with respect to the estimates of the DEF, the revenue of some games, especially lotteries, and the divides that will be paid by the participating companies. Revenues from alienation, depreciation and credit collection decreased by 120 million euros, entirely attributable to an alignment with the forecasts of last April always elaborated in the DEF. As regards final expenditure, the changes proposed by the measure lead to an increase of 229 million in terms of competence. This increase is determined by increased capital expenditure of EUR 315 million, compared with a decrease in current expenditure (less EUR 86 million) mainly due to a reduction of EUR 3,279 million in interest and capital income expenditure, but offset by other higher current expenditure of EUR 3,193 million. There are also a number of missions from the state budget which result in a reduction in the appropriations of the mission, i.e. a public debt of less than EUR 12.5 billion, mainly in relation to the adjustment of the requirements for the repayment of international short-term loans, which could not be taken into account in the forecast budget. In cash terms, the bill of settlement for 2021 overall determines an improvement of the net balance to be financed of 9 million euros deriving from an increase of revenues for 1,525 million euros and an increase of the final expenses for 1,516 million euros. In particular, the net balance to be financed amounts to -328 billion euros, with a deterioration of 52.6 billion compared to the budget forecast, but exclusively due to the change by administrative act in the period January-May 2021, which had a negative impact on the balance for more than 52 billion euros. Basically, the pandemic has made the situation worse for us. The first part of the technical report illustrates the main changes envisaged in the settlement proposal and its effects on the net debt of general government, which is precisely the relevant balance for the European legal system. Overall, the proposals made with the draft settlement law, taking into account what is already taken into account in the trend frameworks for public finance in the DEF, the nature of the balance sheet items concerned, the rules and accounting criteria governing the compilation of the general government profit and loss account, are essentially neutral on the net debt of general government. Finally, we would point out that no amendments have been tabled within the time limits laid down. However, some came later, which were admitted. It proves that today, as rapporteur, I am tabling Amendment No 1.Tab.2.1, which proposes a compensatory change between different spending programmes. In particular, the budget of the programme is increased by EUR 744,000 for 2021, by EUR 56 million for the preparation, quantification and allocation of the financial resources to be allocated to local authorities, and by EUR 56 million for the programme "Contrast to crime," protection of order and public security" both entered in the estimates of the Ministry of Interior. The coverage of these increases has been ensured through the corresponding reduction, by 800,000, of the programme "Sources to be allocated" entered in the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Amendment 1.Tab.2.2 proposes a compensatory variation which, for 2021, increases by € 40,000 the budget of the programme "State building of special interventions and for public disasters" entered in the estimates of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, with corresponding reduction of the programme "Sounds to be allocated" in the forecast statement. This increase will take place on the commissioner structure of the Gran Sasso water system in Abruzzo, whose commissioner structure needed this figure. This proposal was also made earlier in an amendment by my colleague Mr Di Girolamo, but unfortunately the necessary figure had not been found; in this case we succeeded. At the end of my speech, I thank in particular the Undersecretary Sartore for its efficiency, its exceptional contribution and help in drawing up this very difficult Document and all the staff of the General Accounting of the State. I sincerely urge all my colleagues to read it, even if it is boring (it will certainly not be possible to bring such a document under the umbrella), because it is a six-month forecast. Then there will be NADEF and then we will deal with the budget, which will not be easy. Even if it's boring or obvious, I really think it's appropriate to read it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u14	I declare the joint general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u15	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the arrangement, which the rapporteur has just mentioned, includes the transposition of the Decree-Law-Supports-A for 40 billion and the establishment of passive residues, which is a very important operation. The statement includes the asset account, which shows a worsening of 299 billion, with a total of liabilities of the Italy system of 2,215 billion. Numbers don't forgive, that's for sure. What is contained in these two documents, which, together with the budget, are among the most important in this Parliament's examination, shows what is being discussed in the course of the year, on which we agree or not, but which ultimately translates into numbers. Unfortunately, it all passes in a couple of hours because the numbers are unpleasant, but in my opinion we should deepen them all together, taking advantage of the summer break. I repeat some figures, which have been very well reported by the rapporteurs. The final revenue amounted to 569 billion and the final expenditure amounted to 840 billion. The total revenue, which combines the system of public debt, i.e. the expiry and re-ignition of the same amount, or higher if necessary, as has been done this year, amounts to 943 billion and the outputs are equal to 1,076 billion. The balance from finance is 270 billion and has been financed with public debt. Public savings, which would be the difference between current expenditures minus tax and extra-tributary revenue, is 105 billion in negative. It should be positive in order to be able to finance investment. The interest payments have fallen by 2%, but amount to 66 billion on the public debt (which today is 2,700 billion), because they serve higher interests than the market, but refer to the previous debt. Now BTPs are issued at a rate of 0.50% for the first three years and one percent after the third year, so the debt would cost much less if it were renegotiated. However, in my opinion, the total Italian debt (as I have already said a few other times, but this time I put it in order and I would like to submit it to the Assembly and the Government) is about 2,700 billion euros. The 400 billion purchased by the European Central Bank, for me, is public debt; the 220 billion or so of the next contraction or bestowal PNRR by Europe is all public debt (all because it proves to me that subsidies are something else). Then there are, according to plausible calculations, about 50 billion tax credits from taxpayers, including the 110% ecobonus that is starting. There are 30 to 50 billion euros of state trade debts. The sum of these amounts is 3,400 billion, which compared to a GDP of 1,651 billion in 2020 is about 200 percent. But to these amounts I added, in the Italian system, also the NPL (non-performing loan), which according to the most likely amount are 370 billion. Now I'm going to talk about good debt and bad debt. Good debt is what finances the necessary expenditure and investment, but it does not finance privileges - and there are - and unproductive expenditure. We must aim for this: to be sure and to try to make proposals to come out of this situation. PNRR stands for National Recovery and Resilience Plan: I am still a bit confused about resilience, and I don't know if everyone has understood correctly, but I will be informed. I have the impression that in economics we are, in fact, commissioners from Europe and - hear, hear, blasphemy - commissioners from an Italian. In the economy there are too many norms, even in the decrees-laws supports and, first, in the decrees-laws restaurants: too much paper. For the environment there are too many permissions to request. The Decree-Law simplifications made attempts, which I hope can be translated into practice, but the obstacle is in civil, criminal and administrative justice. Think that rocks and excavation lands are still considered waste and if a citizen, of any profession, affords to carry a truck, tractor or trailer loaded with this material is punishable criminally, if he has not done a practice that exceeds 100 times the value of the goods. The Mount of the Paschi of Siena will require an injection of public money, after the 5.4 billion already paid in the past; this is another debt that goes in addition, which I think should be charged to those who have done it. The Motorways have again been forfeited; maintenance, ordinary and extraordinary, and investment is a mirage. The recovery of Ilva is also a mirage. With the price of today's steel it would earn many billions, which would become public money, with taxes and salaries; instead it works, it makes cash integration (which is a cost) and meanwhile we buy steel from China at the price that China wants. The green transition and the modification of the automotive will cause considerable problems. The INPS is overburdened with work and commitments, including financial commitments. Health care, when it comes to the pandemic, will have a hidden debt that I estimate in 50 billion euros. In these two documents, especially in the accounts, there is also talk of residues. The active residues are 211 billion euros, which would be part of the famous tax warehouse (they are those of recent years). The residual liabilities are 196 billion, of which 105 in capital account. If these parties were to leave without constraints, they would already be a development asset. At 31 May, 691 decrees were not implemented since the beginning of the legislature, compared with 120 decrees-laws or laws in force. As for inflation, economists always say, in retrospect: it should have gone in a certain way, but then it went in another way; we had thought that there could be recovery and that inflation was harmful, but perhaps we were wrong. Instead, we say that inflation at 2-3 per cent helps to pay the debt and this is a myth to be debunked in Europe. Inflation stirs up the factors of production, leaving someone behind at some stage, but then resumes them and gives effervescence and strength to the economy. The report is therefore not modifiable and is the photograph of Italy at 31 December 2020. I believe that we need a serious reflection of Parliament, of the vast majority and also of the constructive opposition, and we need to talk about the numbers, because I do not see in perspective the desire to trigger a proactive or productive mechanism, which gives at least one proposal or justification. I do not deduce this from the debates, I do not see it in the economic newspapers, I do not see it anywhere, except for some fringes of productive Italy, which understand the need to produce so much in Italy to reduce these macroscopic and very dangerous amounts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their report on the Budget Statement and the Budgetary Assetment. These are two very technical documents: we are talking about numbers and actions that took place in 2020, the most difficult year we have faced since the post-war period. A year that has seen us committed to making important decisions, a year that has seen our citizens having to deal with restrictions, having to see their activities closed, with the shutters lowered. So, I think it is appropriate at this moment to see the account as an analysis to assess whether the political choices made have had their effects, whether they have been the right choices to be made for our good, our government and our citizens. I have extrapolated from the report on the accounts a sentence that makes a bit of a summary of the numbers reported today in Parliament: we are talking about billions, which are not peanuts, but a lot of money that has implications for our citizens. In the end, however, they translate into little money. Just think of the decree-law supports and the support- bis and the money given to the companies for the closures suffered, which have translated into very little. It is on these issues that we must direct the political choices of the adjustment. First, the rapporteur, Mrs Faggi, gave us a picture of these first six months and the actions that we will have to take place over the next six months, because - as you anticipated - we will first have the update note at the DEF and then we will find ourselves in the budget law. Clearly, the balance in the 2020 statement has deteriorated by more than 273.2 billion compared to the 2019 balance, which is the result of a 6% reduction in final revenue and an increase in expenditure by almost 40%. It is clear that this situation has been determined by the urgent measures needed to deal with the 2020 emergency, which is a very difficult year. I want to remind you that the League in 2020 was in opposition, but it has always tried to bring better proposals than the decisions that were taken by the Government Count 2. Often, however, our voice remained unheard and was carried forward, perhaps, more the theory of the "I" hope that I cable it, which the Italians could not and cannot afford. Since an account also analyses what has been the past and how the emergency has been managed, we see that, in the first phase of the pandemic and the first closures, citizens have been clearly responsible, waiting for the Covid-19 to have a solution through the lowering of contagions. We had a good summer and people could work, but then we had to face autumn. The League, in this regard, had put strong pressure on the autumn planning, which did not take place. On the contrary, the focus has been on wheelchairs. We have invested time in discussing the usefulness of these benches, which have proved to be, not only a waste of public money, but also a way of distracting. Some measures, precisely in the adjustment, must be revised. Magazines, because, however, they do not serve the good of our country. I am referring to the cashback, which was a strongly wanted measure to try to bring back what were thought to be resources in black, but this did not happen. There was a further expense, especially by affecting entrepreneurs, by making them buy new cash. So, less revenue and more spending, to try to carry out measures that are more party flags than effective measures for our citizens. [[Applause]] Instead, it was necessary to invest in health care. Most likely, the money allocated to these two measures had to go to strengthen intensive therapies, to evaluate home care and to give a fair remuneration to what we have called heroes. So, instead, it wasn't. However, we must think about the future, and settle all those measures that we wanted to think were effective and which, on the other hand, have proved their total ineffectiveness. I am also referring to the income of citizenship, which has been, even in a pandemic period, a relief for citizens who could not have the job, but who, at the moment, shows all its inefficiency in order to create work. Italy cannot live on subsidies. Italy must live at work and companies, together with workers, must be able to produce in order to guarantee a certain state, that guarantees services to citizens and that, with these services, can be able to give answers even to the weakest people, those who have suffered the most in this pandemic year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u18	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u19	Mr President, the figures presented by the rapporteur, Mr Pesco, are obviously regrettable. The rapporteur himself says that there is a worsening of all balances. For someone this data is inevitable and so is it for us. In the face of the terrible year, 2020, which we had to face because of the pandemic, certainly had to be taken into account that this year the report could not have been with negative numbers both in terms of revenue and in terms of expenditure, debt and balances. Precisely because these numbers are pitiful, we must reflect on how the emergency was managed, because the negative effects, in some ways devastating, have poured into several directions. There are other negative effects that need to be recorded. First of all, the fact that many activities have been forced to close, not because of the inability of businesses or those who managed them, but because the State has asked for sacrifices and imposed closures that have caused economic problems for many families, not only for those who run activities, but for workers and seasonal employees and not, that in 2020, and also in part in 2021, have had incomes well below those of previous years, have suffered and are still suffering because of the pandemic. Here today we record the third negative element that concerns all of us: the numbers of the public accounts. It is obvious that the sick and the dead have affected the lives of all of us in the immediate future, and it is obvious that the closures have also resulted in immediate negative effects; but in our future we will also experience worrying aspects of debt that we have been forced to contract during 2020 and 2021. They are debts that are added to those already accumulated in the previous decades by our country and that only aggravate the future of the community and the lives of our children. We can only take note of this, on the one hand; on the other hand, we must also ask ourselves whether, in fact, the debts authorized by Europe last year have been directed in the right direction and whether they have produced the results we all wanted. We are convinced that, from this point of view, there are great criticisms and great complaints to be made. First of all, we must take note of the fact that every time the Government and Parliament take closing measures, the negative effects are there and must absolutely be managed with care and balance. Every time a closure is imposed some families enter into economic difficulties and cannot produce wealth and work, while the state's revenues decrease. This is one of the criticisms we have made several times to the Government; even within this new experience of Government extended to almost all political forces, we insist that this aspect should be taken seriously. The effects of closures are not painless, but very worrying and must be managed with balance and intelligence. Every time a closure is decided, this measure must be taken only if there is scientific certainty that this measure will be able to stop or restrain the pandemic. Sometimes these measures have been taken too lightly, without any real effect on the limitation of the extension of the pandemic itself. But they certainly had a negative effect on the lives of so many people and also on national public accounts. We therefore recommend greater attention, prudence and balance in taking coercive measures that do not necessarily have positive effects on public health, but have a clear negative effect on the lives of so many people who want to work, produce and maintain their families. [[Applause]] We also need to focus attention on how resources are spent. During 2020, more than 140 billion were spent, if I am not mistaken, because of the pandemic and sometimes the measures taken by the previous government have not focused the real objectives and have not gone in the direction of responding to all those who have suffered damage, but have taken very questionable directions. We have called him back several times and perhaps it becomes a litany that of the oppositions of that time in calling attention to the money wasted for the school benches, with or without wheels; but it is unacceptable that, in the face of a drama experienced by the whole country, the previous government has allowed itself the luxury of spending several hundreds of millions on benches that are now housed in the warehouses. That was certainly not the objective to be indicated as a priority and the same applies to some bonuses and incentives: I don't think only to those for the purchase of scooters. We were in fact in full pandemic and every resource, every single penny made available by Europe, in terms of debt, had to be addressed very carefully and with great caution, but that was not the case. I therefore believe that, for this reason, there has been a change of pace in the successive decrees, those of this year, issued by the current Government, which have gone to affect, providing refreshments and effective aid in favour of those who have suffered damage, without waste. This is made clear by the fact that today's oppositions may criticize the method and procedures, but they have not found a single criticism to do about the way in which the resources were used, committed to protecting and safeguarding the country's economy. This negative report must also be a starting point for the next measures, in terms of closures and decisions that put our economy in difficulty, but it must also be a warning element for the next budget. It is obvious that the next budget law will perhaps be one of the most difficult appointments for this Government, because the economic policies of such different parties can only find difficulty in bringing out a text and a common budget law between PD, Movimento 5 Stars, Lega, Forza Italia and LEU, which have very distant and profoundly different economic visions. This will be the real challenge of the coming months and it is clear that we will not be able to share the most negative mentality of these parties, for example taxation. We do not believe that taxes are a beautiful thing, we do not believe that the priority of the Government is to apply a inheritance tax and therefore we do not share the approaches of the PD secretary, Enrico Letta, as well as we do not share the mindset of the 5 Star Movement, according to which only through the income of universal citizenship can the fate of the country be lifted. We believe in the culture of work and believe that increasing taxes does not mean having more revenue, but most of the time it means having less, because businesses and businesses fail. We therefore ask that, in the near future, this type of approach be taken into consideration and that it be the pivot of the government's action in the drafting of the budget law, because only through the reduction of taxes and the adoption of measures that focus on work and production can the country be raised. If you think of building a future through citizenship income and increasing the tax burden, I believe that this road will lead us to a dead end and to the destruction of the economic fabric of our country. [[Applause]] I therefore conclude with a recommendation to the Government, so that it really helps the country and its economy: the League, in this case, will support its action until the end [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u20	President. - I call the Group of the European People's He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u21	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, this year the Senate is beginning to examine the two measures which show the state of public finances. The statement is essentially ineminable and exposes the accounting results as they are, but it offers us a precise and precise picture of the situation. On the other hand, the settling law updates us on the budget appropriations and establishes the reporting of the financial year which expired at 31 December. From the attention on these issues, we see that it is dry matter, that does not excite anyone. Then I will try, if I can, to translate it into the real economy. It is as if today we are in the assembly of members, called to approve the budget of the previous year. For a company of capital it is not a banal assembly, it is the most important assembly, because it is the one that approves or not the course of the activity of the directors. How'd we do? Let's just say we went wrong. The pandemic situation protects us like an umbrella from the economic point of view, in the sense that it has allowed us to go beyond all the forecasts we had made. We have gone beyond the debt burden, we have not invested, indeed we have made current expenditure - I remember among all the citizens' income, which is nothing more than a demagogic action that does not solve the problem, or quota 100 - that has not centered the objectives. Colleagues, sooner or later we will have the strength and courage to fully analyse the effects of these instruments. There are territorial economic realities, such as the tourism sector, which does not find seasonal staff because people are at home to be able to take citizenship income. [[Applause]] We should then make provision for a clause whereby those who receive citizenship income and do seasonal work do not lose it, because otherwise whole chains are missing: the tourism sector is suffering tremendously from this phenomenon, let us bear in mind. It is a question of establishing that those who enjoy citizenship income and conclude a seasonal employment contract do not lose it, after the season begins to receive it again. Today, however, the rule provides that those who sign a seasonal employment contract lose their citizenship income, but meanwhile they are skipping entire chains. President Draghi spoke of good debt and bad debt. In 2020 we did only bad debt, the data testify and confirm it. [[Applause]] Good debt is what goes in investment and investment is firm. However, we have - here is the umbrella - the funds of the PNRR, which save us, can help us, but we have to make some preliminary steps that we are doing with difficulty. Europe has asked for tax reform, reform of justice, civil process and other reforms. Let us develop and move forward, because we risk coming too late. The projects referred to in the PNRR must be put to the ground by 2026, but we are still far from identifying precisely what we have to do. I hope a lot in the mediation activity and in the ability to see ahead of President Draghi, and we hope that he will also use the command stick a little bit and call all political forces, including mine, to be more proactive and faster, because the outside world is waiting for answers that are not coming as fast as they should. In an assembly of companies, the important part is the directors' report, but it is also the report of the union college, which is the supervisory body. And who is the state budget control body? The Court of Auditors, which gives the so-called judgment of equalization, which in practice is the report of the trade union college that confirms to the members the good performance of the numbers that are written. It is not that the Court of Auditors' remarks on our budget are just trivial, if we read them we see that they are of a certain heaviness. To quote a given, trivializing, we do not know if the numbers that we have indicated are precisely the real ones, because we cannot have the exact contemporaneousness of what the real estate of the State are. And this is written in black and white. It is as if a company that has the certified balance sheet had the certification company that has the evidence. These are formal, dry but very dangerous aspects. It's a good opportunity. Both Senator Perosino and Senator Tosato said this earlier and my group leader, Senator Damiani, will certainly take it back in his explanation of vote. We want the Government to pay attention to activities that are proactive in creating value and wealth, through that good debt, which many times reminds us of President Draghi, for whom we are allowed to have these worsening economic indices. Let us give a serious and precise hand to those reforms that did not achieve the objective: I am referring to the income of citizenship and the 100 which did not achieve the objective for which they had been achieved. I conclude my speech, even before the end of the time that had been given to me, saying that Forza Italia will not fail, with its men in the government and with the parliamentary groups, its support so that there really is a quick and quick change of pace to get the country back on track. Meanwhile, the sixth gold medal has arrived and I believe that this is a very good hope for the future to be better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u22	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating a subject that is not very passionate (accounts, accounts, settlement), but which has so much impact and affects the lives of Italians. This year the report and the settlement suffer from that health, economic and social crisis by Covid-19 that has affected the whole world and in particular Italy. The report is a photograph of the management of the year that has ended, the result of that disastrous 2020 in which, against a GDP that has been conspicuously contracted also because of the closures, we approved successive budgetary deviations to cope with the Covid Integration Fund, to grant grants to companies and VAT lots spoiled by the codes Ateco, for charity, to help citizenship also through the local authorities. In fact, it is noted that in current expenditure the largest item is the one relating to transfers to public administrations, with commitments of more than 338 billion euros, equal to about 50.5% of current expenditure. These are, therefore, mainly transfers to local government and social security institutions (the Integration Fund). 2020 was managed by another majority, by us of the League strongly criticized when we were in opposition. In fact, I would like to remind you that the League has never escaped from approving the budgetary deviations that have followed, except that it is very critical of the allocation of the resources decided upon. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2020 we decided on more than 200 billion deviations, we included expenditure in the various measures for a figure that is five times a financial maneuver. To give a measure even to those who follow us from home, the money that we are waiting for from Europe and that should characterize the investments for the next five years, does not reach 200 billion, is 191.5. The previous Government had available in a single year (nefast for charity) the sum of the long-awaited recovery fund, equal to five financial maneuvers. Today we are throwing the money and I would like to point out that the health, economic and social crisis has, in our view, been managed in an inadequate way. I remember that 2020 was the year of the DPCM of Conte, of the embarrassing management of Commissioner Arcuri, of the closures sometimes without logic, but of a more carefree summer than this year. In 2020 we experienced a maybe better summer, but only we at the League wondered if we would be ready for the autumn wave. So I come to the subject that I care most about, that is, to highlight if we could do better. In my opinion, yes. I'm not a doctor, but I'm used to looking at the data and already in May 2020 I followed carefully the work of those doctors who, in science and conscience, had just thought of curing the Covid. In May 2020 the doctors of Hippocrates, the doctors of the home care and the council member Icardi of my Region, Piedmont, had already identified what should be the most natural thing for a doctor, namely the cure. On the other hand, I personally witnessed a complete disinterest, even from the government, in the treatment, so much so that the AIFA said that the patient Covid must remain vigilantly waiting. That watchful expectation that, in my opinion, has led to many, too many admissions (and I have examples of them), sometimes with unfortunately fatal outcome. Much better could be done. In autumn 2020 people could start to be treated, while they bet on a single strategy. There was a careful expectation of the arrival of the vaccine, when instead we could fight the autumn wave simply by curing. You may be wondering what this has to do with the account. I'm sure it has something to do with it. The economic disaster caused by closures is partly due to a short-sighted approach to treatment. That's my opinion. The new Government, with its large majority, inherited the existing health situation, with a disorganized vaccination campaign and bad start, which certainly managed to receive impulse thanks to the operation and ability of General Son, a man accustomed to achieving the objectives. Minister Hope has remained and also recently, however, said that vaccination is the only weapon available to fight the pandemic. Colleagues, I'm appealing. In order to get out of this nightmare and this health crisis that inevitably leads to the economic crisis that we see today in the accounts of the state we are examining, we must focus on the treatments, which exist, in parallel with vaccination. In the Senate we have all voted on an agenda and we must now make our understanding concrete, also focusing on early home care, which is the natural weapon to be used. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to publicly thank Senator Faggi for her attention to one of my old amendments that I try to get approved in this parliamentary term, concerning a small allocation of EUR 40,000. This is the second amendment tabled today in this House, which provides for a slight deviation from the forecast in order to solve a very serious problem which has been present in Abruzzo for many years and which affects the life of the Abruzzo people. We talk about water and the Gran Sasso Tunnel, which pits the Gran Sasso and creates inconveniences for the water supply for the Teraman and Aquilan citizens. This deviation of only EUR 40,000 serves to support the Commissioner's technical structure. This is an issue that, together with Senator Faggi, we have taken to heart for a long time and I thank her also because she is not from the territory. [[Applause]] It is important to have the attention of all colleagues [[Applause]] even on the small problems. Maybe they look small - we are talking about 40,000 euros - but in reality the structure needs this possibility in order to operate at its best. The health of citizens, the availability of water and the supply of clean water for daily use are important and fundamental. This, in addition to everything we want to achieve for the ecological transition, seems to me to be a step forward. I hope that in the next measures these few funds - I repeat, this is EUR 40,000 - can really be used for which they have been mentioned today in the measure under discussion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u26	The joint general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2308, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u27	Mr President, I can only thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have spoken, starting with my colleague, Mr Ferro, Mr Di Girolamo, Mr Ferrero and all the others, because they have certainly given some interesting ideas to improve our work, both as a budgetary committee and for the supervision and control of public accounts. We have been reminded of the contribution made by the Court of Auditors, which shows us every year where control can be improved and what needs to be done. Every year, in fact, there is something wrong with the public accounts, the Court of Auditors makes this clear to us and the Government should make every effort to be able to remedy these small problems. I would like to thank Mr Ferro for his reference to good debt and bad debt. We are all aware that, for example, it would be useful for the country to be able to increase as much as possible the share of investments in infrastructure, and above all also - I add - for the protection of the landscape and the green infrastructure network. It would be very useful indeed and we will certainly do so through the funds that will be provided through the PNRR already this year. The commitment of the Budget Commission - but I think of all my colleagues - is to ensure that this money is committed and spent as quickly as possible, logically maintaining those useful garrisons so that they are not squandered and used inappropriately. The commitment is there and I really thank everyone for the ideas you have given on this issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u28	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2309, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u29	Mr President, I too will make a brief speech having listened to all your speeches and contributions, which are fundamental and important especially for us in the 5th Commission, from which the accounts and the numbers pass, which do not make any discount and are authentic. Many of you, having read the papers and having made clear the evolution of the country's economic and financial situation, have also clearly explained the concern in your speech. None of us expected a disease of this kind; none of us expected the need to intervene with such important measures to try to overcome situations that were lacking, worrying and were exhausted. None of us would ever have expected such a disease to uncover even the vessels kept closed for many years, of sectors where inefficiency, bureaucracy and slowness have made it by masters and have been able to react at the necessary speed. We will treasure it, we will have to treasure it all, we will have to learn from the mistakes of the past and from what we are living daily and that we will have to live again. We will also have to take this into account in the drafting of the budget law, because you will all be called upon to make your contribution, even if it now seems to you a distant prospect and holidays and beaches seem closer. There will be a time when we will come back and suddenly all of us will fall our heads to these accounts, because then we will have to give answers, not only to those who voted for us, but to those who work, who have held up, who have held up and who have survived this disaster. Locked in here, sometimes, we don't have the exact concentration of how you live out there. Outside you live badly. The accounts are clear. We all have the task of improving this situation together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u30	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank all those present, both the rapporteurs and the senators who have spoken. I am certainly aware of the suggestions made in the budgetary settlement measure because, as the rapporteur, Mrs Faggi, said, it is a preliminary report of the year, so it is important for the second part of the year. I also take note of the comments made on the report, which is, moreover, a closed measure, without any possibility of amendment. I would like to remind you that the settlement proposals generally lead to an improvement in the net balance to be financed by EUR 1,300 million in terms of competence and are essentially neutral - I mean - in terms of cash. The overall changes resulting from these settlement proposals are essentially neutral even in terms of public debt. It should also be borne in mind that this measure transposes, by EUR 41.55 billion in terms of competence and by EUR 52.48 billion in terms of cash, the effects of budgetary changes made by administrative acts adopted in the course of the year. I would like to mention, in particular, Decree-Law No 2 of 2021, Decree No 5 of 2021, Decree No 31 of 2021 and the famous first Decree-Law No 41 of 2021 for which, moreover, Parliament authorised the use of debt. I would also like to point out that this is the second year that we are presenting a technical report which, for the sake of greater transparency of data... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u32	Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u33	Courteously, if the House could make a little silence, it would be possible to listen to what the representative of the Government is saying. Please, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Sartore, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Thank you, Mr President. As I said, I would like to point out that for the second year, the arrangement presents a technical report that gives greater transparency of the data, with reference to the balance of the account and with a connection with the net balance to be financed from the state budget, the forecast, the trend public administration account and also 2021 settled. As far as revenue is concerned, I would stress that the EUR 2.3 billion that has been included in the statement is very important, because they have been allocated to countering the general negative effects of the pandemic. In addition, I would like to point out the financing of the facilitated purchase of machinery, equipment and equipment for small and medium-sized enterprises - the New Sabatini, wanted by all the parliamentary groups - and, in the field of education and national emergencies, compensation for savers, for the construction of schools and the reconstruction of earthquake areas. Finally, I would like to thank the Budget Commission, which sees me engaged almost every week. I want to thank you for the cooperation and for the careful examination you always do on all the measures, even on these, which are a bit dry and which, in fact, they take into account the real situation of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u34	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I would like to say that once we have completed the examination of the articles of the statement, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 5, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the examination of the articles of the statement. We proceed to the examination of the articles of the bill n. 2309. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u35	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u36	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.Tab.2.1 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.Tab.2.2, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Article 1, together with the annexed tables, in the amended text. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This led to the conclusion of the examination of the articles of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u39	[[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please allow us to speak in an explanation of vote. Whoever must turn away, kindly do so in silence; whoever remains, kindly lower the voice. You're welcome, Senator. STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the overall deterioration in public finances, with a 6% reduction in final revenue and a significant increase in final expenditure by almost 40%, is, of course, the result of the extraordinary measures to deal with the pandemic emergency. These measures and the various budgetary deviations to finance them have brought the negative balance from EUR 78 billion of the initial forecasts to more than EUR 192 billion. It can be continued by quoting the data of the tax sector, with many sectors that have reported a double-digit contraction and talking about the greater use of the financial market or the decrease of the extra-tax revenue and so on. This is a picture that is literally shaken by the pre-pandemic phase; a picture that is also difficult to define because of its rapid evolution, as the Court of Auditors has also pointed out in some ways, when it recalled that different tax revenues put forward are actually linked to macroeconomic variables, which is why they cannot always be calculated with accuracy. After all, this difficulty is a constant of the public accounts. However, in the context in which we move, this criticality may prove explosive if growth forecasts are not maintained. This is a debate we are having in the Commission from the first budgetary deviation. It became clear to us immediately that we were walking on a path that would inflate our public debt and, in order not to make it fall on the next generations, it did not serve and not only a great commitment: it needs above all a change of mentality regarding the way in which, in too many phases of history, Italy has managed its finances. It is true that there was no other path to debt, without which - we saw it in the crisis of the past decade - the economy would enter into a depressing spiral without any possibility of return. But today there is no other way than for sustained growth, with a Italy that, at the end of the pandemic, finally stands above the European average, overcoming, that is, those limits and structural delays that have caused, in the last twenty-five years, a weaker growth, even during favourable economic cycles. In addition to the resources of the recovery fund, including the large part of the lost funds, let us not forget that we have two elements in our favour, but that these may not be forever: the European Central Bank's hat and the suspension of the Stability Pact. Of course, it would be crazy if Europe went back to the season and the rules before, but it would also be crazy to think that the ECB could forever make incetta of securities on the markets to finance our debt and keep interest rates low. What will happen on the day when the rates will return to growth, if we in the meantime will not have a growth that can also accompany the debt reduction? I therefore believe that these figures and that these measures, which are sometimes dealt with somewhat by Parliament, tell us everything about the responsibility that we must have in managing European aid, in measures to stem the fourth wave, in putting in place reforms that help the country to overcome its ancient fragility, from that of justice to that of tax, from competition to the code of procurement, which will be the big issues of September. I repeat once again: this is not the time for division and party flags; it is still the time for national unity, even unpopular choices, if these are needed to build the general interest of present and especially future generations. It is with these wishes that I announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u42	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, the examination of the 2020 accounts and the budgetary adjustment shows the serious backlash that the public accounts have suffered as a result of the pandemic shock since February 2020. The situation has affected the whole world and has also affected our Italy very heavily. The Senators of the Budget Commission, who have been working on numbers, measures, deviations for 18 months and today, in fact, on the accounts and on the adjustment, have the responsibility of saying in this House that the situation is, yes, sustainable, but also that Italy no longer has the opportunity to make mistakes. Istat's latest estimates confirm the above: GDP decreased by 8.9%, when we had only 0.3% GDP growth in 2019, a stagnant GDP. So, our restart must be in severe discontinuity with what we did before the pandemic. The deficit also has a very negative situation, which has collapsed to less than 9.5%, while public debt - as we know - is close to 160 percent of GDP. It is good to remember and always keep in mind these numbers, which will also be raw, but they give us the exact content of the situation that we have to face. Even the primary balance collapses to less than 6 percent, after with years of sacrifices we had accumulated a +1.7%. Interest expenditure does not increase much, it remains at 3.5% of GDP, but this is due to a zero or negative interest rate situation that we certainly cannot expect to continue in the future. Mr President, total revenue has also been strongly contracted, of course, especially current revenue, due to the contraction and closure of many activities, which have had a major impact on tax revenue, in particular direct taxes. The total expenditures, both current and capital, have increased considerably: here I want to focus, because wage supplements, cheques, welfare benefits, but also, on the business front, guarantees for financing businesses and grants are a rescue operation for the economy which, however, has a form of assistance that neither the public accounts nor the political philosophy that we support can afford to carry out in the future. The future can only be made up of work and growth, and this is attested by the 2020 report. Many colleagues have confirmed balances and numbers, but it should be noted that all balances are worsening: the net balance to be financed is at over 263 billion; public savings, both with reference to the previous year and with reference to the initial forecasts, are clearly worsening. As for the use of the financial market, the report tells us that aid to the economy and society has left ample traces to be healed. This adjustment - we know this - is responsible for making changes to the budget. The changes in the budget, together with the changes made until 31 May by the administrative acts of the legislative measures, constitute the forecasts laid down. Here too we see a sharp deterioration in balances: a deterioration in the net balance to be financed by more than 39.4 billion. We know, however, that for the first time this balance brings with it positive measures. In the account you can see heavily the effects of interventions that have made our public accounts difficult, such as 100 or the income of citizenship, measures that certainly did not work as you wanted and that must be revised, while the 2021 adjustment gives us a hope for the future and the measures that can graft a growth. It is clear that the current situation needs ways out and the way out is one and it is called the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. But for this Plan to be effective, the strategy that the Government has put in place to restore public finances and restore public debt to a medium-term objective, based on growth, creates structural growth. The growth of more than 2.6% of the cyclical GDP of this period is certainly welcome. We know, however, that it is cyclical and we must make it structural. To make it structural, of course, as everyone says, we have the opportunity to ground and refine the 235 billion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan by 2026 (and I want to stress it: by 2026), but, through the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we must activate those 1800 billion private savings that must contribute to the development, growth and implementation of the reforms. Then, of course, there are reforms. A very difficult season, which heals the last twenty years of lack of reforms. We have already approved the reform of public administration and simplification. We are struggling to complete the reform of criminal justice and civil justice; then we will have that of competition and tax. And with the IRS we are talking about reforming the tax process, the corporate crisis code, as we are also talking about social shock absorbers. Beyond the public accounts, all this needs a political precondition: that there is stability, not only in this legislature, that must end with a sort of national unity, but that there is stability until 2026 and beyond. We must recognize that we have seen some really expensive seasons, in terms of seriousness and in terms of time, with populist diversions and with a game of really sterile parts, which certainly does not help Italy. Therefore, in declaring Italy's vote in favour Viva to the general statement and to the budgetary adjustment, I truly hope, to each of us and to those who will come after us, to be able to carry with great seriousness the weight of this great responsibility and this beautiful challenge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u45	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about numbers. We are talking about a picture that represents the economy and finance of our country. I think it is right to start with a number, which represents the net balance to be financed for the year 2020: a negative figure of 271 billion. If we look at the net balance to be financed for 2021, in the adjustment, the figure is still getting worse, because we are going over 300 billion. I'm not surprised, of course. From the opposition, we of Brothers of Italy are not here to do populism and demagogy, nor to shoot at someone. We understand that these numbers must be read from the perspective of the pandemic crisis and the extraordinary interventions, that there have been and that there must be. When, however, the accounts of the budget recite these heavily onerous values, I think it is necessary, and even an obligation of conscience for a Member and for an administrator, to question the fact that, while we overdo our country and our children, that money is spent efficiently and effectively, that that money is not wasted, that that money does not constitute a continuity on proposals, made by some political forces, even in full intellectual honesty, which then proved to be wrong. So, ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing the whole Chamber, it would be time to ask ourselves whether, in 2020 and 2021, 15 billion are committed and - let me say - wasted on citizenship income. [[Applause]] I invite you to listen, not to my words, ladies and gentlemen, but to look for what the whole Italian economy says about this waste of public money. One account is in fact the emergency measures, one account is to operate in an extraordinary way on those who need an emergency income; another account is to maintain in a structural way an income, that of citizenship, that has nothing to do with the development of the country. Today two national newspapers (not one, but two), the only two national economic newspapers, actually fire on the income of citizenship. It does so today, with an entrepreneur who has wagered on our country, on the South, and who says that with the income of citizenship there are no workers. The same thing Confagricoltura tells her, the direct growers (Coldiretti) tell her and complain to the entrepreneurs of the hotel and tourist world. I come from a territory, a province and a region that live on tourism. And tourism complains that you no longer find workers since there is the income of citizenship. There are therefore direct farmers, farmers, tourism entrepreneurs; but it is not enough, there are also industrialists. We arrive at the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" which on the front page today says that in the construction sector, the driving sector of PNRR and superbonus, 265,000 people are missing. And we persevere in paying those who do not work, who - says the President of the Tridico INPS, ladies and gentlemen - has no prospects of employment! Often these people are voluntarily and structurally out of the labour market. Two thirds of the 3,700,000 citizenship income recipients in 2018 and 2019 were not registered in the INPS registers. Tridico, president of the INPS, has certified the non-employment of these people. It is a measure that commits 15 billion over two years, a welfare measure that has shown that it cannot have in itself those active policies with which at the initial stage of the approval, at the beginning of the legislature, you justified the income of citizenship. Well, three years later, active policies are non-existent, within everything that is the citizenship income theorem. This is welfare without socially useful jobs, because a citizen, ladies and gentlemen, would expect the one who takes money without working to at least clean up the squares of the country, clean up the parks, assist the elderly, do socially useful jobs. None of this has happened, apart from the intentions. This is a measure that does not really help the weakest and the neediest, which does not help the 50-year-old without work and outside the market, which, in order to have a small apartment in the suburbs, is not entitled to the income of citizenship. But maybe it helps instead the delinquents out of jail, the workers of the mafias and of the camores, who turn out to be null and void and who with that money buy us cigarettes, because maybe they are used to introit thousands of illegal euros per month (and they also take the income of citizenship). That is the wrong ethic, which cannot be accepted when our budget cries for the numbers I have just said. I shall continue, Mr President, also looking at the settlement for 2021. After talking about the waste that exists and that should be eliminated in the future, I would like to see more real investments in our country; more investments, for example, because we believe in social, for the extension of social shock absorbers. That is where I would like to see in the 2021 report what we will have in a few months; or I would like to see it in advance in NADEF. I would really like to see there the social shock absorbers that become a heritage of the entire Italian community, from the craftsman to the trader, from the employee to the parasubordinate. I would like to see more investment, which - alas - I have not seen, on the subject of Covid. Where, in the second round of the pandemic, are the interventions and investments in transport, school and territorial medicine? Do you really think, colleagues, that you can solve everything with the green pass alone? Do you really think that forcing a citizen or a kid who goes to school to have the green pass means solving Covid's problems? No! Invest and invest, we use the debt well, with the sanitization of the school area and with the intensification, in quantitative terms, of the transports! These are the measures that must contain a serious budget, to solve the problems of the country and to debt our citizens with a just debt, certainly not wasting or throwing money from heaven, on people who often do not even deserve it. What do public accounts contain about tax reform? [[Call the president back.]] I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. They contain EUR 3 billion, or little or nothing. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the tax reform, which they promised us by the end of July, will not even come at the end of July next year. We will not have it, because it is not planned for investment. With EUR 3 billion no tax reforms are made: it is a mockery! Where is the money, which we could have invested, for example, in solving so many problems that concern our country? They're not here, also because we wasted them. I shall conclude my speech very briefly with a wish and a positive vision. 2021, thanks to our production fabric, will hopefully mark a growth of 6%. So where did all the big parrots of austerity go? Where did those who ignored Kaldor-Verdoorn's productivity law go in relation to the country's economic growth? Have we all understood that we need expansive policies? Yes! However, expansionary policies are needed, with investments for the country and without waste. With this wish, with the will to give Italy seriousness and concreteness and our citizens the desire to work and not to be assisted, I announce the opposite vote of Brothers of Italy to the draft law of settling and reporting to our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u48	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, unlike my previous colleague, I am voting in favour of the parliamentary group of which I am an expression. I say this now not because I think there is a risk of forgetting it, but because I want to spend all my time explaining the reasons for it, proposing a question immediately, as criminal lawyers do in court: if there was no judgment on the statement, what would be the political dimension on the management of resources and accounting documents? Would it be conceivable to have a political assessment and management of political responsibility, without expressing an assessment of the accounting documents of our legal system? Absolutely not! We would be a "scripturifice" of virtue, without any verification downstream. Now we have to check and the colleagues who preceded me, starting with the two rapporteurs, Senator Faggi and Senator Pesco, have highlighted the indisputable numbers of accounting management. I want to make this matter vulgar, that is, not vulgar, but understandable to everyone. Is the management of financial and economic resources imaginable, without using the establishment of bedding, the detection of active and passive residues? Absolutely not and this is because we are not talking about the music conservatory "Luisa D'Annunzio" in Pescara, but about the management of the state order, which is also charged with emergencies of national scope, such as the pandemic. This is the theme that must induce everyone to be reasoning, reasonable (not idiots, it would have been said in ancient Athens, I mean not those condemned for lack of mind, but those who wronged the proportions in the measurement, not considering the facts of the context). The prevailing fact of the context is this rupture of civilizations called pandemics, which is more than a cyclical crisis, and it is clear that this brings with it debt, debt qualified as good debt, because it seeks to sustain the life and the wheel of the economy that it must start again. Of course, I have read all the acts, even the pitiful ones of the Court of Auditors. I would like to address the very competent undersecretary, Mr Sartore, who I think could have played this role in Germany too, having a prior expertise and a political sensitivity acquired, and which today helps us in the management of accounting documents. On page 8 of the oral requirement of the Attorney General of the Court of Auditors Channel, it is pointed out that the management is worthy of favorable vote, but there are aspects that must be corrected and highlighted. It is said and written, for example, that the service contract between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, Ferrovie and ANAS still has shortcomings, such as the entry of ANAS's accounts into the reserved perimeter of management not subject to the Stability Pact. It is not a pun, nor a loan that I take from Buffetti registers: if ANAS could rely on the management of financial resources like the State Railways, it would have speed and flexibility in achieving the objectives. They are called regulatory resources, which are worth more than financial resources, because development is not only the result of the swelling and the size of financial resources, but also of regulatory ones. Since Law No 241 of 1990 - Head of Cabinet forty, Minister of Civil Service Remo Gaspari - thirty-one years have passed: it is time to proceed with an organic reform of the administrative procedure. After thirty-one years, thirty days cannot yet be necessary for every administrative node to mature. It takes less time to determine the maturity of administrative proceedings, as the prosecutor of the Court of Auditors says, to ensure that all the assets of the State's property are classified, as they must produce financial and economic virtues (e.g. those relating to maritime goods). On this we must also recover ground from the European Directive 2014/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, which refines and aligns the maritime space with the mainland. In this report, which is of course voted (and must be voted on), another problem is also highlighted in relation to State public participations: 34,000 participants are also a source of difficulty in drawing up accounting documents. That is why we need a work of thoughtful merit, that is not won by ideology or by partisan emotional debate. I would also like to point out, for example, that the Ministry of Justice is also the subject of action, since the Court of Auditors states that it would serve a unique place for the interception of telephones and not multiple and repeated places; this would result in a platform management perhaps even safer. Reporting, therefore, is not a bureaucratic fulfillment, but the fulfillment that allows the representatives of the nation to express an evaluation. In moral philosophy, evaluation evokes ethics. In accounting management, reporting is the ethics applied to our responsibility. We need information, details, analytical accounts. In the project of public work it is not the sign, the color, to make the soul of the project, but the metric calculation. In the management of financial resources is exactly the analytical detail that allows conscious judgment, otherwise we become as elements of furniture, that is always fine, but it is not necessary. It is on this, then, that I invite you to acquire an awareness that also determines a judgment of merit equipped, responsible, which then causes you to curve, when necessary, even the correction of the path of resources. When the best people were selected in the 20th century, Paolo De Ioanna explained, on a beautiful day destined for the younger generations, that the resources are financial ones (we are dealing with them); those regulations (which we produce when we collect ourselves); then there are the technological ones and, important, those of strategic vision, which allow to sew what is put on the field on the level of limited goods, which are the financial resources, with unlimited goods, which are the ideas. Ideas are needed to ensure that the measurement is up to the challenge. We have been called to a greater challenge than our forecast, so the intervention of our colleague is fine, but it can be placed, almost like a loculus, in a partisan position. Instead, it is necessary to become aware of the extraordinaryness of what has happened. For these reasons, I speak to support the work that has been done by the order and comes almost from within me the emotion that, in the face of the broken civilizations, we should be beyond unity, at the level of univocity of the points of view. For this reason, the PD Group has instructed me to declare my vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u51	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Faggi, and the rapporteur, Mr Pesco, and I am voting in favour of the Group's report and budgetary adjustment. The previous speakers have confirmed the numbers. We are in a phase of worsening balances and in an absolutely extraordinary situation, in fact I have felt the right concern of many colleagues. However, being in a completely extraordinary situation, we have all made a choice, depending on the different sensitivities, deciding - in my opinion, rightly - to make an expansionary policy not only with investments. There is no colleague in this House who has not proposed an amendment to address the dramatic economic problems caused by the pandemic at the moment. I believe that we must all be aware of this and, in my opinion, we can make an overall assessment, asking ourselves whether we have made the right choices in relation to these 180 billion - because that is what this is all about. I believe that both the Count Government and the Dragon Government, from this point of view, have done well. Then everyone has their own shirt, so they have to make distinctions, but the basic choice was right. However, Madam Undersecretary, following the indications of those who preceded me, I would like to say that I would like, in addition to the fundamental data of the statement (which is a decisive instrument, even though it is unknown in our debate), to make an ex post evaluation of the results that these investments and financing have had. In this way, we will be able to have a more substantive and less abstract debate and, with the next budget and NADEF, we will also be able to make the necessary corrections in my opinion to make the work of supporting and helping families and businesses fairer, just and sustainable. The EUR 180 billion is fundamental and the basic choice is right, but there are corrections to be made. I would like to make a comment on the next budget. We must be able to build a bridge between the emergency and the future strategy, and this is the PNRR. Let me say that we need to make certain choices. The content of the PNRR is not sufficient to define a strategy. Let me be clear about that. For some time now, I have always heard the same things about citizenship income: I don't share them, and I try to explain myself. Firstly, citizenship income is a measure present in the vast majority of European countries. Colleagues, it's an objective fact. [[Applause]] Let's get to the facts. [[Comments]] Secondly, there is no doubt (and this was one of the reasons why we abstained on the measure introducing it) that there is a problem of relations between active policies and policies capable of giving an employment response. However, it is certainly not the income of citizenship that raises a problem with regard to employees, tourism or agriculture. There is a problem of pay, rights and organization of work and, until we tackle it, we will not solve the problem. [[Applause]] Colleagues, you know very well that this is the issue, and that is why we need to have a debate - and not an abstract one - on what works and what does not work, as well as on what must be the new active policies for work, starting from the lever of training, which, in my opinion, is used in a way that is not appropriate to our needs. Citizen's income or not, the fact that there are no skilled workers and technicians comes from mistakes, which are behind them, made on the Italian training system. We - I say "we" generically - have destroyed technical training and this is the first problem in relation to the relationship with active labour policies. In short, colleagues and colleagues, I think that if we start to make a substantive speech that goes beyond positioning, perhaps we would make a contribution. The second major issue is health care. Let me say one thing: are you happy - I am not - that Europe has decided and made a contract with which the costs of Pfeizer and Moderna are increased? I'm not, I'm not happy: it's a wrong choice. If we do not address the issue of a new relationship, at least at European level, with the Big Pharmas, look at the fact that, with regard to the reform of the health system, we will be in emergency not only on vaccines - and we must be aware that we will be facing this issue for at least the next two, three or four years - but also in relation to all innovative medicines. Ribonucleic acid (RNA) is a major revolution in the health system of pharmacology, which will address the issues of life. How are we gonna handle these games? In short, there is a great challenge that requires a qualitative leap, from the point of view of the political culture of all of us, so that we consider the problems not only today, not only in search of tweet or applause, but with a vision and a strategy. Without it, we're not going anywhere. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u54	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, it is never easy to prepare and set an explanation of vote on very technical measures which base their condition on numbers. In this particular case, these numbers represent the unexpected situation in which the country has found itself this year. We've faced an important health emergency. 2020 was the year of the general closure of the country, therefore of lockdown, and important measures and urgent measures have certainly been taken and necessary to stem the economic crisis that has occurred, and there is still today. It is therefore an extraordinary situation, faced with extraordinary tools. That is why we had to intervene several times in the course of the year, including by changing the programmatic balances with important budgetary interventions, also because the deviations we adopted, on a proposal from the Government in Parliament, were impressive and important. Today we are also addressing the issue of budgetary adjustment, which changes the forecasts that we approved at the end of the year, also in the light of the new DEF that we approved last April and which gives a different picture of economic data. As I said, it is not easy to make political reasoning about these numbers, but I would like to address a first part of my speech by quoting some important issues that need to be taken into account, and then provide ideas for reflection also in relation to what must be the vision of the country today. We have a report from 2020 which, for all that has happened, today presents a differential between revenue and expenditure of less 71.5 billion for competence, while it is less 71.2 billion for the cash. The setting-up of 2021, as I said, is also important, is affected in this case by certain measures which we have recently adopted in this area of Parliament: I am referring, for example, to the reordering of the Ministries, as well as to the supporting decrees. In financial terms, however, we have an improvement in the net balance to be financed of EUR 1,296 million in terms of competence and of EUR 9 million in terms of cash compared to the balance resulting from the budget law. These are the numbers. I continue, trying to give a glimpse of the criticalities and ideas contained today in the two measures. As I said, the general statement and the budgeting are branded in focus by the Covid-19. Today we need to take advantage of these measures precisely in order to find a way out of the current situation in the country and we can do so both by analysing these measures and finding political ideas, and by taking advantage of the fact that we have an important instrument, on which we are already working, like the PNRR. We chose a forced path - we could not do otherwise - that is to increase the public debt. I repeat that this is, unfortunately, a necessary way to cope with the economic crisis, which must, however, make us responsible today. Precisely because we have gone on this forced path and are in debt to future generations, today we must be responsible for what we must do for the future. At this moment, therefore, the reforms are no longer postponed. [[Applause]] They are the only instrument on which Parliament must work today, because it needs to make debt sustainable. You can't waste any more time. As my colleagues in my parliamentary group who spoke before me, Senators Irono and Perosino, and as is sometimes pointed out in this House, there is a difference between good debt and bad debt. It is therefore important to continue along this path, leaving the bad debt behind now, and to think only eventually of the good one, because the numbers are however dramatic. I just want to remind you that the state budget has grown from 870 billion in 2019 to 1,150 billion in 2021. These figures make us well understand how today's spending ends in themselves are no longer possible in the country, while we have to go exclusively on the road of investment and modernization. Unfortunately, as we have all denounced, especially us at Forza Italia, the statement does not go in the direction of investment and modernization, being instead more unbalanced on current expenditure. In fact, the deficit, i.e. net debt, which in 2019 was 1.7% of GDP (i.e. 31 billion), rose to 9 percent in 2020, exceeding 151 billion. It is clear that these numbers impose a decisive stance and the only thing, as I said, is to make reforms: at the top of all there is the battle of battles, fiscal reform [[Applause]] , because today there can be no growth of the country, if we do not lower taxes to families, workers and businesses, which are the flywheel of our economy, and on this Force Italy has long been engaged. It is the only way today to get the country out of this economic crisis. There aren't any more. That is why everyone, including my colleagues who have spoken before me, is questioning a welfare measure such as the income of citizenship. It is the INPS itself who said that the results did not come, because today the pandemic has put so many situations in front of us, but something the crisis has taught us. At the centre today is the dignity of the person; work is important. [[Applause.]] That is what we must focus Parliament's work on today, putting families, man, the person and the dignity of work at the centre. That's why the assistance tools are no longer good. Of course, we agree on measures to combat poverty, but they are something else and must be drawn more on a line of active labour policies and not, as we said, of end-of-life assistance. Another painful issue, which is certainly found in the budget data, is the payment in favour of companies of the debts of the public administration. We need to do more. Public administration must also be closer to our companies and businesses; therefore, it must try to pay even faster. Again, bureaucracy: we are also doing a job in Parliament together with our Government, precisely because it is another evil of our country and an important ballast. In any case, we are implementing measures aimed at simplifying administrative procedures. Not to mention the digitisation of public administration: we must speed up; it is necessary today to make available to all citizens, to our economy and to the activities very fast processes of simplification that eliminate these zavorre. It was addressed by the House a few hours ago and the reform of justice, which is also fundamental for our country, will also come to this House in September. It is important not only for the rights of our citizens, but because today it costs the State so much. Thus, reform of justice also goes in the direction of the country's development. As Forza Italia, we are engaged on issues such as, for example, tax reform - for which we are carrying out campaigns in the country precisely to inform citizens and to give an accelerated - and justice, which we are committed to improving also with the referendum questions and signatures that we are collecting in the squares. In conclusion, today we are talking about numbers, which are often difficult to comment on, but they are a symbol and synthesis of choices that determine the future of our community and above all the quality of what we want to achieve for us and our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u57	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today we are dealing with the general accounts of the government administration for the financial year 2020 and the adjustment of the state budget for the financial year 2021. The Government is obliged to present to Parliament these results, from which we avoid the effects of all the frightening reality caused by the pandemic. I would like to remind you that everything started with the declaration of the state of emergency on 31 January last year; the first budget thought had been the advance of 66% on the solidarity fund to the municipalities, which were the entrenched bodies. The mayors, in fact, were those who, risking with their own decisions, tried to give answers to citizens and entrepreneurs on the territory, who, terrified, did not know where to go or what to do, but above all were blocked by lockdown, entrepreneurs like traders. It was a monstrous situation and, in my opinion, it is right to give credit to the mayors, because they have always acted courageously, without ever backing down. At the time the League was in opposition; the management of the emergency, in our opinion, was full of shortcomings and decisions, all in all, not right, the first of which was the appointment as extraordinary commissioner of Dr. Arcuri, former CEO of Invitalia, and this is history, not interpretation. We remember all the famous banks for the school, but it could have been anything else: the management of the calls has been questionable, also because of the advantages for our companies there have been very few; the choices have proved quite wrong, since their use has been limited and some banks not produced in Italy have already been provided. It has been disastrous, however, especially the management in the first period of protection devices and masks; let us not forget that the pandemic began to kill and expand in the heart of Lombardy and Veneto, in Codogno and Vo' Euganeo, when we sent immense quantities of masks to China: something unthinkable, yet it was done. Unfortunately, the same CEO of Invitalia will now have to assist in monitoring the financial and procedural progress of public investments, for mapping the portfolio of projects financed in program-project perspective, for the reconnaissance of areas and projects in realization critical to submit to supporting actions: that the Lord helps us, but we go further. The League, however, has always had, even from the opposition's benches, an attitude of direction and criticism, even heated, but precisely to give voice to the realities that had been forgotten. It will be said that it is easy to speak, but the proof is that, when we arrived at the government with President Draghi, there was much more attention to certain categories that had been forgotten. This has been crucial. You can see in the decrees-laws supports and supports- bis how music has changed. Perhaps former President Conte and his government would have done well to listen a little more to the League's suggestions. I remember that the League did not back down on the approval of deviations, because it was necessary, it had to be done. However, as has already been said by those who preceded me, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will clearly express a respectful vote of abstention, I stress, maintaining all the critical attitude compared to what was said and done last year. But now we are facing great challenges. Still many - some comrades of government - try to convince us that we should not be in this Executive instead the League continues to be there, because it believes that at this moment we must take a step back from its own party ideals; there are a priority, that is the good and the future of the country, and therefore a necessity, that is to spend at best the resources that we have and be effective, in respect of our citizens, our businesses, our traders and our families. I used to listen to Senator Errani. I agree with many other colleagues that we need to talk about a revision of citizenship income and there can be no ideological blindness. Now we have a chance to see what didn't work and what you can do to improve it and make it more efficient. We must make sure that aid arrives, yes, to people who have no other way of supporting themselves, but it is not conceivable that the income of citizenship is given to people who already have no right to have it. We do the checks first, we don't spend money on them later, because no one's gonna give them back to us, let's be clear. Above all, let us not close our eyes to the fact that the collective utility projects (PUC) did not work, as the representatives of ANCI have told us. They did not work, because the training you tried to do did not succeed, because the level is on average very low and therefore you can not employ these people. Or you get answers like "if I have to..., but I'd rather not": an unlistening thing. Worse still, it is not acceptable that people who may refuse job offers, because they say they are at home with citizenship income and do not want to work for that salary, they also work in black, cheating the state. It is unacceptable and I think that the condemnation of similar attitudes should be unanimous in this House; they cannot be justified in any way. Let's talk about it, we're there and we're available as always, but let's do something serious. What do we need now, then? We need, in fact, to close the ranks and try to understand what the country needs, the real one. We have important amounts of money, never seen before, that must be used in a short time, in the optimal way. One thing must be done, then, which is still not there: effective simplification. Suffice it to say that the 110% bonus is not taking off: this means that we must do more, we must simplify, we must make clear rules as possible, because otherwise we do not start. I would also like to stress another aspect - alas - which is important: for the work on the adaptation of school buildings there are very great difficulties for next year, because many companies, winners of the ban, have pulled back, because they can no longer do the work, given the increase in raw materials. Is that a problem or not? Do we really want to think about it? Therefore, there is a lot to do and the League is always constructive and willing to dialogue, as I think it has been demonstrated in every way, but there must also be the willingness on the part of the various Groups to speak with a single objective, that of bringing the country to safety. When I say security I mean it in every sense, even in the light, unfortunately, of a dramatic event: the security not only of having more work, but of having more safety at work. Yesterday, a 40-year-old woman died at work: incredible. We also need more security on the streets. All this makes sense, so we allow ourselves to continue to criticize those measures that we think should be improved for the good of our country, of the citizens and for respect especially of those who, unfortunately, because of the pandemic lost their job, lost their activity, but above all lost their loved ones and saw their lives destroyed. We must give hope to those who have lost loved ones and those who have no longer found a future in the immediate future. We must give people a future back, because we have full responsibility and, above all, the possibility. If we don't, we'll be guilty. In conclusion, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione will cast an abstention vote on the Report and a favourable vote on the settlement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u60	PRESUTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are discussing two of the most important measures of our institutional activity in this House: the management report for 2020 and the adjustment to the state budget for 2021. With the General Report of the State, the Government communicates to us parliamentarians the result of the financial management of the year just concluded, while with the adjustment the forecasts recorded in the last approved budget are updated simultaneously and the work for the next budget law begins. We should all pay close attention to these two measures, analyzing each individual voice to better understand how the state is working, what the impact of our political choices is, and where action is needed to correct malfunctions. Unfortunately this does not happen and you miss a great opportunity, that of awareness, the most important tool that we have available and that would help us find solutions to the problems. Parliament is increasingly attracted to the budget law, but it loses sight of the great information that comes to this House today through the intervention of the two rapporteurs and the speeches we are making to explain precisely what is happening to the state. The financial analysis reported in this report covers an extraordinary year, 2020, the year in which the pandemic from Covid-19 made all its negative effects felt, putting a strain on the state and its citizens. In fact, the financial and capital values contained in it measure the discomfort to which our country has been subjected, which has involved all aspects of our life. Reading the accounts for the previous years, it emerged that we were already coming from a financial situation that had several critical issues. For example, when asked by Europe to respect the Stability Pact, we have always had to pay close attention to the state of public debt in relation to gross domestic product, GDP, which is a well-known index for almost all citizens. However, we have not been able to implement those measures and reforms that have been expected for years, which are necessary to improve the values of this index. After all, it would have been simple: it was enough to grow gross domestic product, paying attention to the environment and sustainability. Alternatively, measures could be taken to reduce public debt or achieve both. All this, however, has not been done. Then came the pandemic from Covid-19, which brought out all the weaknesses of our country, starting from the management of the public health system, which showed all its fragility compared to one of the most predictable phenomena in the world: virus infection. The same State-Regions relationship has been put to the test precisely on the management of health, the concurrent matter symmetrical par excellence, transferred to the Regions in function of the reform of Title V of the Constitution. On this issue too, which concerns the proper functioning of public administration at central and peripheral level, there is much to think about. In practice, we have had proof that a certain way of organising public administration has not given its best; this respect, for example, for the issue of self-government, which must be taken into account in the experience of health care. The pandemic has also conditioned and limited social relations, creating strong inconveniences to the economic system, generating a crisis of demand. This has had an impact on business and professional activities, affecting almost all categories of work. The possibility for students to attend schools of all levels and for citizens to interact easily with institutions has been limited. Faced with what has just been reported in 2020, in order to deal with the emergency from Covid-19 we had to adopt extraordinary measures, which had a strong impact on the state budget, both with regard to the resources allocated, but also with regard to the evolution of the management and the realization of the expenditure. Let me give you some examples. With the decree cure Italy we have taken measures to strengthen the National Health Service and give economic support to the families, workers and companies most affected by the crisis; with the decree liquidity we have adopted, among others, measures to facilitate the access to the credit and the tax obligations for the enterprises; with the decree I throw again we have adopted measures in the matter of health and support to the job and the economy, as well as of social policies. With the Covid Decree of 19 August, we have taken further measures to support and relaunch the economy; with the restorative decrees we have incorporated into a single bill four measures in the field of health protection, support for workers and businesses, justice and security. Overall, these 2020 measures have put additional resources of more than EUR 205 billion in the state budget, with Parliament committed to voting on budgetary deviations to ensure financial coverage under the temporary suspension of the constraints of the Stability Pact. Moreover, it is my duty, given the previous interventions, to remember the great social function absolved by the income of citizenship, strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars since 2019. [[Applause]] Citizenship income is the most powerful tool to support disadvantaged people, which has allowed the survival of millions of people and the country's holding in a time of great social crisis. And you're forgetting it! [[Applause]] In summary, in the midst of the crisis, Covid, the Government headed by President Conte and Parliament have worked constantly to strengthen the National Health System, to support businesses, to help self-employed and employees and to support the school and judicial system. All this has led to an inevitable worsening of the voices that make up the General Statement of the State. Without going into details of the amounts, it can be said that revenue has fallen and that expenditure has increased considerably. The review of the 2020 capital management shows a passive surplus of 2,215 billion euros, with a deterioration of almost 300 billion euros compared to the balance sheet at the end of 2019. This result has an extraordinary character, as it does not reflect the trend observed in recent years. On the other hand, as regards the adjustment for 2021, the changes proposed with the bill show a worsening of the net balance to be financed, which corresponds to the difference between the final revenue and final expenditure, compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law, which settles on a value of less 232,8 billion, compared to an initial forecast of less 193,5 billion, with a deterioration of about 40 billion due to changes made due to the need to take other measures to deal with the emergency from Covid-19, for which in Parliament we authorised the use of additional indebtedness. To a state budget that in the reporting and settlement phase highlights the critical issues so important, conditioned by a previous situation already negative and aggravated by reasons of a health nature, to relaunch our country, to protect the interests of citizens, to safeguard and enhance the territory and the environment, we can respond in a single way: to carry out concretely in the pre-established times the PNRR. The financial resources granted to Italy by the European Union, thanks in particular to the commitment of the Count Government [[Applause]] , which, combined with those planned with the Solidarity and Cohesion Fund, amounts to about 237 billion euros, represent the opportunity to make our country modern and competitive, both in Europe and worldwide. The European Union has granted these resources, with the priority being to bridge the economic and social development gap between North and South Italy. I would like to stress that for the North it is necessary to have a more developed South, which can compete together with the North in order to make Italy a solid nation and a strong reference point in the world economic system. The reforms that we will adopt in support of the PNRR will have to go in this direction. The reform of justice, taxation, public administration and the labour market are key preparatory steps to ensure the expected performance of the PNRR; there are no alternatives. The 5 Star Movement has so far demonstrated a great sense of responsibility towards the country, guaranteeing support to the Government even when the measures adopted were not totally in line with its core values (see the latest reform of justice in criminal matters). But we are aware of the exceptionality of the historical moment that we are experiencing, which is not only about Italy. We have limited time to make sure that our country returns without losing this opportunity to relaunch, which necessarily sees collaboration and cohesion prevail at all levels. For these reasons, believing in the validity of the PNRR, I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars on the drafts of law Management report 2020 and settlement 2021. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u61	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 2308 and 2309. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2308, as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2309, as a whole, with the annexed tables, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u64	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I would like to inform the House that, from press reports, there seems to be a board of directors of Ferrovie dello Stato, within which it seems to have been proposed, by Minister Giovannini, the name of Ugo de Carolis, former CEO of Aeroporti di Roma, former man of Benetton and man of Castellucci, CEO of Atlantia. I think and hope that, where confirmed, there may be a strong disagreement for a choice that goes against and in contempt for the interests of all the family members of the victims, of all the Genoese and in general of all Italians. [[Applause]] Mr President, that is why I would ask you to allow Mr Giovannini to be heard by the House and the relevant Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u65	Colleagues, even! Contests and applause... Please! Toninelli (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I shall conclude briefly. If this appointment were to succeed, I would ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Franco, to stop it. As the MEF the shareholder of Ferrovie dello Stato, and therefore of ANAS, can block a nomination that goes against the Genoese, the victims of the Morandi bridge and their family members.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u66	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u67	The next item is the communication by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2318: ==References====External links==* Official website I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u68	I have read the opinion to the President of the Senate, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law: ==References====External links==* Official website The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, and after consulting the representative of the Government, notes that the 2021 Economy and Finance Document, as approved with resolution at the session of the Assembly of 22 April 2021, has declared linked, to the completion of the budget maneuver, among others, a bill containing provisions on entertainment, cultural and creative industries and for the book. For the purposes of the opinion to the President of the Senate on the measure in title, linked to the public finance maneuver 2021-2023, it is pointed out first the respect of the deadline of presentation (31 January), term that in any case - according to established practice - is authorising character, with the consequence that the eventual presentation beyond the term would not have affected the qualification of "connected" of the bill. As regards the requirement for compliance with the policy objectives, it is noted that the draft law under consideration is substantially in line with the one set out in DEF 2021. Finally, the measure, which is divided into four provisions, with the delegation for the reorganization of the provisions on entertainment (Article 1), the establishment of the national register of professionals operating in the entertainment sector (Article 2), changes and additions to the tasks of the Observatory on the show (Article 3) and the activation by the INPS of information and communication services for members of the Pension Fund for performing workers (Article 4), appears consistent with the parameters of the homogeneity of the content and competence of the reference administrations. The provisions also appear to be in line with the content of those connected to the public finance operation, as governed by Article 10 (6) of the Accounting Act. ==
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u69	Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill No. 2318, pursuant to Article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I communicate that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4 p.m. with the debate on the resolutions adopted by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees on Italy's participation in international missions. (The sitting was suspended at 13.55 p.m. and resumed at 16.07 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u71	I was informed that you, Senator Bruzzone, would like to make an intervention on the order of business, slightly anticipating the subject. I would like to give you the floor, because another Member had already spoken before the suspension and not at the end of the sitting. Otherwise, I would have asked for the intervention to be postponed at the end of the sitting; given that the exception has already been made before the suspension, it does not seem right to use different weights. By virtue of this, Senator Bruzzone, I give you the floor but I ask you to contain your speech within acceptable limits. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u72	Mr President, I commit myself to being brief. I act as Senator of Liguria on the alleged voices inherent in the appointment of Ugo de Carolis as CEO of ANAS. We all know - it has remembered also the colleague that has intervened this morning - that Ugo de Carolis is man near Benetton and the managing director Castellucci. He is known for being CEO of Aeroporti di Roma and also for a story of a year ago that I remember quoting a title of "Il Sole 24 Ore": Atlantia in the storm, the managing director of Aeroporti of Rome de Carolis sells 27,000 shares before the rejection of Fitch's, that is, before the downgrading decided by the rating agencies, and has cashed 573,000 euros. That is not the point, even if it does not honor him. However, to undergo such a treatment means to see that the experience of the lack of maintenance of the Morandi bridge, with all the responsibilities before and after the collapse, has served nothing, because today it is proposed to us Genoese and Ligurians a story that we would never have wanted to live and repeat again. [[Applause]] I ask - as others have also done in the House - that Minister Giovannini intervenes directly and urgently in this House and I say this because it is impossible to understand a choice of this kind, which is likely to be implemented in these hours. Mr President, thanking you for giving me the floor, I conclude by saying that my words, which go beyond the actual part of the nomination, really hide a magon, because we would never have expected such a thing from a government and a minister. Above all, it is difficult for me to say these words by holding back an anger which - I hope - is inherent only in an attempted affront and not in a reality, on which we believe to make a strong reverse. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u75	I would also urge you, Senator, to hold your speech within three minutes. Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I will also be brief because I agree with what Mr Bruzzone has just said. We are a few days from August 14. I believe that not only for no Genoese, but for no person in Italy and perhaps in the world it is possible to forget the collapse of the Morandi bridge, the unimaginable tragedy that happened in a great city of North-West Italy. I don't discuss the person I don't know, but there's something about the city's wound. There is a process in progress and it is clear that there have been responsibilities. We can imagine that such a wounded city and the relatives of the victims, who still live the drama, may feel offended by a nomination. I do not know how true the voices are, what has already been defined, but I feel strongly associated with the request, which I have now heard from Mr Bruzzone and this morning from Mr Toninelli, that no appointments should be made that could offend the city of Genoa, the victims and be a forgetfulness of what happened. I therefore want the Democratic Party's voice on this matter to come in loud and clear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u78	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, it was not enough for this government to fill the Benettons with billions, even though they were responsible for not maintaining the Morandi Bridge. Now you also want to appoint as president of ANAS a man attached to them, linked to the former administrator of Atlantia Castellucci? Is that what you want? How can colleagues who have spoken not tell their parties that this should not be allowed to the government? You can't trust the government and then allow such a mess. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u81	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we support the requests that have already been made this morning, at the end of the first part of the sitting, by Senator Toninelli and now by Mr Bruzzone, Mr Pinotti and Mr Crucioli. I believe that this time - we hope - the position of all the forces and groups in this House serves to stop a choice that would be offensive. Rightly Senator Pinotti recalled that August 14 is precisely the anniversary of the collapse of the Morandi bridge; honestly we would never have expected that one could come to think of an appointment like that in question as president of ANAS. We therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for the Government to listen, at least this time, to this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u84	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr. President, there's a little bit of news coming up from time to time. I'm a little embarrassed - I'll be told - to resume Senator Toninelli's intervention. I never thought I'd do that in this legislature, and I'm telling the truth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's in the company, though. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Yeah, that's right, and it's less effective. I must say, however, that I thank him. This Government, to which we have given extreme confidence, has recently made two choices: in the first place, has recalled the famous Arcuri, CEO of Invitalia - choice that we have not absolutely shared and I believe that we will see some beautiful ones - but above all the even more serious one of the proposal of appointment of Dr. Ugo de Carolis to the guide of ANAS. This is at least an inappropriate choice - as my colleague Mr Caliendo has urged me - also because soon it is the anniversary of the collapse of the Morandi bridge, in a logic that at this point seems to be a sort of fil rouge. And it makes me smile that some of the majority have taken certain choices. First we wanted to shoot, disintegrate and delete that piece of society, Benetton management, Atlantia and beautiful company; then, we bought him, with 9.5 billion euros of Italians, the shares and we became owners of 90 percent of Aspi; now, since probably it wasn't enough, we tell him to come and manage all this stuff, since they now know it. Frankly, the Forza Italia Group has remained grounded in this proposal, and it particularly makes us that such an attitude is repeated and that the Government has not even felt responsible for convening the majority to give an indication of this. The current one is not a government disconnected from the parliamentary system: it is Parliament that gives the address; it is good that we never forget it. And on this issue I believe that we absolutely cannot back down. I hope that this choral disappointment of inopportunity will turn into a high point to the choice made. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u87	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we have learned this morning from all the majority that there is a gentleman who, according to the Government - it is the Executive who makes these choices, directly or indirectly, in its collegiality and I imagine with the consent, direct or indirect, of the President of the Council - should become, despite its opaque past, not brilliant, very questionable, the new Managing Director of ANAS within the agreement between ANAS and Ferrovie. All the Members who have spoken consider such a decision to be at least inappropriate, certainly wrong, to be deleted. Yet, colleagues in the majority, it is not enough - excuse me - to howl at the moon. If you are truly convinced that the choice is wrong; if you are convinced, as Senator Mallegni has just said, that Parliament must play its full part and make its voice heard, there is a way of turning beautiful but useless statements into a political act. Tomorrow will be the attention of this Assembly a decree-law that concerns the transport sector; we all sign an agenda that commits the Government not to complete the authorization process of the appointment of the gentleman in question. This is one way of exercising Parliament's sovereignty. All the others are good arguments that leave the time they find. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u88	The next item is the joint debate on the resolutions adopted by the Joint Committees 3a and 4a, pursuant to Rule 50 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal on the analytical report on ongoing international missions and on the state of development cooperation interventions in support of the peace and stabilisation processes in 2020, including with a view to the related extension for 2021, as decided by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2021 (Doc. XXIV, n. 48), and at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the resolution of the Council of Ministers on the continuation of the ongoing international missions and the participation of Italy in further international missions for the year 2021, adopted on 17 June 2021 (Doc. XXIV, No 49). The reports have already been printed and distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, asked to supplement the written report on document XXIV, No 48. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u89	Mr President, with this resolution today the Senate is called upon to examine the authorisation measure for participation in ongoing international missions and on the state of development cooperation interventions in support of peace and stabilisation processes, also for the purpose of its extension, as well as from the content of the resolutions under consideration, under the procedure introduced by Law No 145 of 2016. These are two resolutions on new missions that were introduced in 2021. With regard to the interventions of development cooperation, Senator Bishops will speak, who participated with me in the drafting of the resolutions. The resolution of the missions, approved by the resolutions discussed in this debate by the Commissions meeting 3rd and 4th, is part of a security scenario made more complex and unstable by the pandemic. The historic phase that is opening up has many unknowns, as is apparent in all the hearings held during the course of this measure. The very real risk is that the pandemic accentuates the dynamics of fragmentation and greater conflict that the geopolitical scenario already showed clearly for several years. In particular, it is still worth exploring the impact on fragile countries, with weak governments and institutions, with critical social conditions, with ongoing conflicts and with weak or non-existent health systems. Just think of how, like the rest of the world, coronavirus has led to a suspension of most economic and commercial activities in the Maghreb, for example. Countries that had foreign tourism and investment at the heart of their economies have seen these sectors reset in a context already characterized by numerous vulnerabilities. And the ability of local governments to respond to socio-economic and political demands and demands and to pursue a process of democratization is quite doubtful. This is proof of the crisis in Tunisia these days, but also of the unrest in Morocco and Algeria. The meaning of today's measure lies in assigning to the most advanced nations on the planet, even more so than in the past, the task of working together, in order to manage instability and continue to support the governance system that has as its reference the UN and international law. Italy's lines of action are based on basic principles that guide and oversee our foreign security policy; principles that we have been following for many years and which come from the second period of Article 11 of our Constitution. I am referring to our adherence to the system of relations and institutions based on the United Nations and the other organisations to which we belong in accordance with international law and, therefore, our choice for multilateral crisis management and to give stability, continuity, capacity and planning to the action of the international community in favour of stability and peaceful development. International missions represent an assumption of responsibility for a country like ours, which has always been on the side of the protection of international law and boasts a very long period of commitment to human rights, for the multilateral management of crises and for the strengthening of multilateral organisations, in a global scenario increasingly exposed to risks of conflict. Among other things, we can well say that, if we want to be users of security in the interests of our country, we must be with courage and responsibility at the same time as producers of security. Therefore, Italy's contribution is that of participation in more than 40 missions, with an average presence of about 6,500 staff units, with a maximum authorized of about 9,500, with a specific focus - as indicated by Minister Guerini in the hearing - on the enlarged Mediterranean, which represents an absolute priority for our country. The identity and confessional fault that is passing through the Arabian Peninsula favours dynamics of repositioning of the main regional and global actors, with possible repercussions on national industrial and energy interests. The remodulation of the US commitment (in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, for example) and the activism of Turkey and Russia have led to new imbalances that could lead to further crises. Regarding Afghanistan - as underlined in the extension resolution - despite the conclusion of the Resolute support mission, it is believed that Italy must maintain a strong presence within a common effort of the international community to ensure the maintenance of progress, especially with regard to the female condition, achieved so far also thanks to a heavy commitment from many countries from the point of view of the loss of human lives, even before from the financial point of view. In the Sahel and in the Horn of Africa the political instability and fragility of the state institutions are a source of criticality for Italy in terms of security and the possible launch of new migratory flows. In the Balkans, there is still a growing presence of various non-European actors, with serious repercussions in terms of political influence, but also migratory flows. In view of these scenarios, Italy continues to strongly support the stabilisation process in Libya. I think it is useful to reason on the reason for our presence in Libya and to have a complete view. Italy's commitment to that country, which has been in place for many years, has always been in the UN and in favour of a greater role for the European Union. For obvious reasons, we have intended to play a leading role, but always coordinated and with a view to multilateral organisations which are our reference point. This is on the basis of a clear assumption: I believe there is no doubt that the issue of the stabilisation of Libya is a matter of absolute importance for the consequences on the balance and security of North Africa and the whole of the Mediterranean; this is for the European Union, but above all for Italy. Libya needs the greatest possible effort of Italy and the international community to avoid the risk of destabilisation that would be a disaster; an effort that, in order to succeed, cannot fail to be coordinated and see a greater role of the countries of the European Union (on this we also intervene in the resolution). But, in order to achieve this result, it is up to us, by position, history, ties and culture, to have a special role. We're in the middle. For years we have played a special role without achieving a more decisive common European commitment. The point is that our backwardness would make the situation even more difficult. To be clear and not to be misunderstood, if cooperation is essential, there is no doubt that it should be based on certain conditions regarding human rights and the protection of the most vulnerable, but we also need to be clear on other points. The cooperation missions as a whole, including bilateral missions and all those on which we intervene in Libya, are included in Italy's wider political commitment to actively contribute to stabilisation and peace, without which very few steps could be taken in the field of protection and human rights. Our action in Libya is historically and actually aimed at promoting a wider involvement of the international community and, in particular, of the European Union. And it is certainly necessary to work to ensure in Libya and in detention centres the possibility of access and action to international organisations working in the field of immigration and humanitarian assistance. With these premises, in the resolution of extension, in relation to the objective of strengthening the European involvement on the topic Libya, has been inserted a commitment to the Government turned, from the next programming, to verify the conditions for the overcoming of the mission of assistance to the Libyan institutions charged to the control of the marine borders - of which to the card 48 - transferring the functions to other missions, with the objective, precisely, to consolidate the role of Italy in Libya and to increase the European involvement. This is to underline that Italy's participation in international missions is not only a fundamental element of our foreign defence policy, but also one of our identity traits in the framework of bilateral relations, accession to treaties, agreements and links that characterize our location and our priorities in the international context. I conclude by expressing my thanks to our Armed Forces for the commitment shown, with seriousness and professionalism recognized at all levels, reaffirming once again that our Country boasts a long-term commitment, remaining among the most important contributing countries, both in terms of personnel employed and in terms of financial contribution. The Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence welcomed the content of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers. Some of the points raised during the debate were accepted, some of which have already been highlighted. In another, the need to verify a greater simplification of the parliamentary authorisation procedure for the launch and extension of international missions is highlighted, considering - as the resolution reiterates - that, also following the critical issues that emerged during the first years of application of the framework law, it would be appropriate to assess their adaptation. In these circumstances, the Commissions together propose to the Assembly to authorise the missions and activities referred to in the deliberations of the Council of Ministers within the time limits laid down in the resolutions before the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked to supplement the written report on document XXIV, n. 49. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u90	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I would like to illustrate the new six missions with Italian participation: the participation of military personnel in the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia; the use of a national aircraft device for the presence, surveillance and security activity in the Strait of Hormuz; the recognition, as an operation aimed at exceptional humanitarian interventions, of the operation called Cedar Emergency in Lebanon; the participation of a magistrate in the mission, very important, of the European Union to assist the Libyan authorities in the creation of state security structures and the fight against organisations involved in the smuggling of migrants; the participation of a finance officer in the same mission in Libya; the participation of a magistrate in the mission in Ukraine, to assist the Ukrainian authorities in the reform of the judicial system, the strengthening of the rule of law and the fight against crime. Mr President, allow me to conclude this report. I am convinced that the size of a country is measured by foreign policy. For this reason, I would like to thank President Draghi, who, with his authority, on several occasions has shown a marked change of pace, especially in the Libyan scenario and in clarifying our relations with Turkey, as well as having crystallized, out of any ambiguity, our membership of the Atlantic Alliance and the values of the Western world. Just as a final thank you, I would like to thank our women and our men in the Armed Forces for all our support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u91	I would remind you that any agenda for resolutions adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a may be submitted before the conclusion of the joint debate. Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u92	Mr President, I will say no with my vote on funding for Libyan militias, because we all know that the groups of Libyan militias, confederated in the so-called Libyan coastal guard, are the same warlords who exploit human trafficking and run detention camps. They are militias accused of crimes against humanity, for violating and continuing to violate thousands of lives of migrants and asylum seekers, reduced to slavery to prevent them from arriving on our coasts. And this ecatombe in the Mediterranean, a few miles from us, is the symbol of the moral and political failure of European democracies, of the blindness and cynicism of the ruling classes. The horror camps in Libya are a black hole in the history of humanity and for them we will be judged by history, politically even before morally, because no one can say that they no longer know what is happening in the Libyan camps. We know that, because repeatedly, for years now, the complaints of the UN and the Council of Europe, say this the acts of the International Prosecutor of the Hague, the photos and videos of the investigations, including the courageous ones of the Italian journalists, that we will never finish thanking for their civil commitment. This is said by the witnesses of the survivors, the heartbreaking voice of the tortured and raped women, of the men seized and left to die, of the girls and children chained, beaten, sevitated, who numerous attempt suicide out of despair and hunger. There is no justification for all this, there can be no justification for all this. There is no high politics that holds, there is no misunderstanding political realism, there is no reason of state that can make us connect with all this. Yet, President, those camps are legitimated and covered by an agreement signed between Italy and Libya; and that is unacceptable. An agreement between two governments, never passed in Parliament; and that is unacceptable. An agreement that has never been rewritten, despite the commitments made in this House too. It is on the basis of that memorandum that there is a so-called Libyan "research and rescue" area in the Mediterranean. Although Libya has never signed international conventions on the respect of migrants, we urge them to intervene in our place, to reject in our place, to capture and lock up in the camps, because this is what the Libyan militias we support do. Not helping, ma'am. There is a video from a few days ago, in which a Libyan motorbike, donated by Italy, is shot shooting on a boat loaded with people, trying to spur him. This happens and this continues to happen. That is why, Mr President, I shall vote no. That is why, together with Senator Nannicini and Senator D'Arienzo, we are saying our no in this House and in the face of public opinion, because nothing has changed, in spite of hypocrisy and promises. The situation, in fact, has worsened in the last year. "Medicines without frontiers," one of the last remaining bulwarks, has suspended activities in the centers, denouncing the exponential increase of violence in recent months. Yet, Mr President, we claim that there is another way to stay in Libya. Libya concerns us: we must cooperate and not leave it to the civil war and the interests of Turkey, Russia or others. There is another way to stay in Libya and to be with Libya and it is to be Italy, continuing to build hospitals and schools and not betraying our values and our Constitution. Mr President, we are strongly asking for this: this mission, which has strengthened the system of torture camps, must be stopped rather than dismantled. A new agreement must be written - we strongly ask - involving Europe, Africa, the United Nations, humanitarian organisations, non-governmental organisations and civil society and addressing the structural causes of a migration phenomenon that is epochal and involving millions of people, fleeing from unspeakable atrocities and that no wall and no camp lager will be able to stop. Mr President, in conclusion, we need a new 'Mare nostrum', a political and economic initiative that puts respect for rights at the centre, because only in this way will Italy and Europe be able to redeem its role and its historical function and carry out a leadership that is credible, true and recognized, in the Mediterranean and in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u93	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u94	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is quite right when he says that the international missions in which Italy participates are an important instrument of Italian projection on the international front. They often represent the face of Italy even in the most desperate places and our military, to whom all our thanks go, are appreciated by all for their professional capacity, but also for the humanity they put in the various missions, normally alongside the most fragile, the weakest and in operations and civil works. I believe that this must be acknowledged, because it is an important merit. However, I say to the rapporteur and to the other Members that, in the light of this importance, it is in my opinion necessary to assess well, mission by mission, without automatism, but considering the results achieved and the general context that, at least in the Mediterranean, is in very rapid change. Mr President, you have spoken of the enlarged Mediterranean: it is true, but this enlarged Mediterranean is all in turmoil. In the meantime, I would like to announce that we will ask for a split vote on the 48th ballot, on which I will speak later. Looking at the Mediterranean, we see Lebanon, devastated by five crises, one on the other, and then - for example - the very fragile Jordan. Moreover, Lebanon has hosted millions of refugees and the very fragile Jordan has a weight of immigrants almost beyond the size of its population. Then there is Libya - which you have talked about and which I will return to - but recently we also had the explosion of Tunisia, currently in an unstable and equally fragile truce. And then there is Morocco, with the question of Ceuta and Melilla and other bilateral issues open with Spain. I insist on saying that there is then a black hole that little we are concerned with - perhaps because little can be done about it - which is Algeria. That country is a pressure cooker without a release valve and - in my opinion - as such will eventually burst and burst will be a country of 42 million inhabitants, which produces nothing, that lives from oil export, a welfare state that - I think we must bear in mind - will not last long. I am referring now to two particular cards. The first is Tab No. 7. It is true that we come from Afghanistan and I do not discuss a decision already made - someone is very angry - but I want to be sure - and I ask the Government for a formal commitment in this regard - that all Afghans and their families who cooperated with our forces in Afghanistan be rescued. [[Applause]] Do not tell me that the remaining contingent will protect them, because it is not true - they have already started in Pakistan, to give us a message, just to be clear - and above all the whole Hazarian ethnic group is obviously at risk. The United Nations already tells us about 30,000 people on their way to escape. But at least I want to make sure that all those who have collaborated with international forces as cooks, as guides, as interpreters, are protected - along with their families, be clear - and brought to safety. I now come to Card No 48, of which we are asking for a split vote and on which I shall vote against, first of all because it is not an international mission. Sheet 48 concerns the participation of the Guardia di Finanza personnel in the bilateral mission of assistance towards the Libyan institutions responsible for the control of maritime borders. It is a bilateral agreement quite, if not completely, unknown. The Mediterranean is now one of the largest open-air liquid cemeteries and, instead of criminalizing those who save people at sea and reducing rescues at sea, which we certainly do not facilitate, we must break any connivance on land on the Libyan territory. I think we all know what happens, we don't need to send who knows what inspection: whoever is saved is brought back in the lagers - they are called that - and they all said it, the testimonies are unique, as are the reports with thick documentations. It is truly unacceptable from my point of view - but it is good for this debate to take place in the Senate - that we take responsibility for sending back to prisons - it is done to say - to be tortured, desperate migrants who were just looking for a better life. That is why we are calling for the deletion of the card, because I believe that the whole political operation in the Mediterranean needs to be rethought. In particular, we need to rethink our bilateral commitment to Libya, which lasts from the partnership agreement that I have already opposed. It is true that for now many European states are deaf, but that is precisely why we must insist and prepare for new arrivals. In fact, if the Afghanistan faucet is opened, we are talking about thousands and thousands of people, who obviously go to Iran, but I doubt they will stop in that country, because the point of relapse is definitely Europe, through Turkey or through some other country. We must not stand up to human rights judges or give lessons to others, because we too are not going very hard. The newspapers these days tell us about immigrants working in the fields in black, dead of fatigue, of heat, with the caporalate that still insists and still ramps. They are slaves among us, obviously without documents, working for a few euros per hour, with temperatures of 50 degrees. We too would have a great job to do in our country for rigorous and human immigration, so we do not stand as teachers of human rights, because we are not; however, precisely because we have experience of it, we must absolutely insist that this is the path towards which we should strive. In this context Libya is not there, it is not there yet, nor can it be. I therefore thank all our armed forces participating in the various missions, but it is the task of politics to analyse what this cooperation with Libya has served. It has served to bring back and torturing people, certainly it has not helped to stabilize the government of the country. I believe that anyone who takes on other responsibilities should know this, but I think it is more serious to suspend this mission and to rethink how we want to place ourselves not only in Libya, but in the enlarged Mediterranean. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u96	Mr President, international missions are a very important aspect for our armed forces and for our foreign policy in general. Italy is the second contributor in terms of troops to NATO's international missions, it has had summit positions and will soon have another very important one that I will be talking about shortly. It is a pride and it is a reason for prestige and of course for this goes above all the gratitude to the men and women of the Armed Forces who participate with great capacity and with extraordinary results in these missions, finding the appreciation not only of us, of the Italian Government and public opinion, but of the commands of other countries that have often expressed extremely positive judgments on our troops, on their preparation, for example on the peculiarity of the Carabinieri, who have both a preparation of police force, and a particularly versatile military status and with experience as military police, of course without forgetting all the other bodies that have participated and participate in international missions. This extraordinary commitment in terms of troops and resources to support the military must be used politically at the level of international politics. At the end of the last NATO summit, which took place a month and a half ago, a joint declaration was issued, as always, by all the Heads of Government (or their representatives) who participated in it. In the 79 paragraphs of the Declaration, the Mediterranean (not already Italy, which is not mentioned at all, but it can be because we go for geographical areas) is mentioned twice: once simply to mention the initiative of the Mediterranean dialogue (the Mediterranean dialogue) and the other to remember that there is the hub of Naples facing the Mediterranean. In essence, the Mediterranean is completely ignored. There is a whole European side marked by NATO's attention to the Baltic Sea. 2022 will be an extremely important year and a great opportunity that Italy must not miss in order to assert its reasons. In fact, Italy will continue to be the second contributor in terms of troops and an Italian will be at the head of the very delicate mission in Iraq. For Italy it will therefore be a great opportunity to assert itself and make sure that all the politics of the Mediterranean (and I would add also of North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa) has its influence. These are things that touch us every day. We are talking about the arrival of immigrants, which is a daily reality. However you see it, it is a very important aspect. Where do immigrants come from and what are they driven by? They are driven by imbalances in the Mediterranean and by problems in North Africa and also in the Saharan and sub-Saharan areas. Therefore, it is not possible for NATO summits to ignore the Mediterranean. It is up to the government to intervene, because no one else can. Interparliamentary dialogue is a good thing and there is also the NATO Parliamentary Assembly where decisions are not taken. It is up to the Government to weigh the role of Italy. In this area we can and must make our commitment to international missions weigh heavily and, if we want to weigh it abroad, we must show that we have great regard for it in Italy. The closure after so many years of our mission to Afghanistan took place - let us be honest - at the Cheticella. When our soldiers arrived there was no personality to receive them. [[Applause]] True, the Minister of Defence went to Herat and participated in the ceremony, but frankly it is difficult to think that this touches Italian public opinion. I think we should have welcomed their return, not with the emphasis on the return of our very good footballers who won the European Football Championship, but at least with the dignity that is due to the thousands and thousands of men and women who took part in this mission, to the 53 fallen and to the many injured. We begin to consider ourselves in Italy and make it stand out together with the importance that Italy has at the international level, asking for NATO to take on a policy with broad vision and action at the level of the Mediterranean, because that is where we are and that is where most of our contacts, opportunities and even problems are found. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u97	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u98	Mr President, Professor Luigi Manconi, Senator of the past legislature, has questioned the threshold beyond which it is no longer possible to continue relations with a country without democracy and without the rule of law where the most basic human rights are violated on a daily basis. Manconi knows that that threshold can only be found in the relationship between the gravity of the facts and the objectives of the mission. If peace and the rule of law are sought, only a wise and far-sighted political assessment can discern between the consequences of a breakup and the use of diplomatic instruments. After 1989, the nuclear balance between the USA and the USSR ended, the world disappeared and still has not recovered, and today the only possible balance is the very difficult and unstable one of careful and pragmatic multilateralism. From this assumption come the international missions, which preserve that world order that keeps the world in precarious balance for decades. Today Italy operates on fifty-nine missions, trying to help ensure peace and stability in countries where there are often - I emphasize frequently - no democracy, no rule of law, no respect for human rights. And it is on these missions that we must question ourselves. What is the threshold beyond which Italy must feel the duty to leave and leave those countries to their destiny? Or, if he decides to stay, what kind of assistance can be given without sacrificing the duties imposed by our democracy? In the face of so many blatant atrocities, mentioned by my colleagues Verducci and Bonino, Italy should, by political morality, interrupt its training work of the Libyan Coast Guard. But are we sure that doing so would not break that tenuous thread that still connects Libyan regimes and Italian democracy? Are we sure that this would not make the conditions of those living in Libya at the mercy of violence irreparably worse? I have to say, I don't have that certainty. Faced with this dilemma, I think we must appreciate the decision of the Senate Commissions that commit Italy to involve Europe in the training, starting next year, of the Libyan Coast Guard, thus exceeding the national dimension of our mission. If we want to be serious, in the Mediterranean and Libya, the real issue is precisely the role of Europe. And if we want to turn the policy of the Mediterranean, as Emma Bonino asked us, we can only do so with Europe. Libya's conditions are vital for Italy and it was already so in the days of Gaddafi, that we did not like it but with which we had good relations. Today France itself has perhaps regretted the raid that has removed the rais. To try to understand, I want to follow Emma Bonino's reference to the American and Italian withdrawal from Afghanistan and observe how, day by day, its negative effects are aggravated, not only geopolitical, but also on the freedom and life of thousands of Afghans. If Peter Hopkirk were to rewrite his wonderful novel today, the great game of the 19th-century Afghanistan would include new actors and expand the theatre of action. In the 19th century as today, tensions in Afghanistan came from an insoluble interweaving of historical oppositions: great powers and small powers, regular armies and terrorist organizations, conflicting political, economic and commercial interests, plots of secret services, declared wars and dirty wars, drug trafficking, betrayals, double play and religious struggles. This was and still is the reality, not only of Central Asia, but also of the very different Libya. We are talking about countries that have ancient stories behind them and of which the international community, including Italy, must take into account. For centuries, Central Asia, the Middle East and the South Coast of the Mediterranean have been at the center of great strategic interests and tensions, wars, massacres and attacks seem to be so natural to ancient historical events that we doubt the success of international peace missions. But we cannot give up because we know that, if we want peace to return to those regions, we must also promote political stabilisation with our presence. Europe's eastern, north and south borders have become more vulnerable. After the Russian and Turkish power activism in the Mediterranean, the enlarged Mediterranean to which Emma Bonino referred, what else must happen to convince Europe that without a common foreign and defence policy there are very serious dangers? History can teach a lot. The lack of courage of European democracies towards nascent Nazism has not prevented either the Second World War or the Holocaust. Remembering this can help us understand how dangerous it is to underestimate the weakness of Europe's foreign and defence policy. The events of the Middle East, Central Asia and Libya call Europe not to intervene in scattered order, but to do so as a single great nation that knows its interests and duties. In Afghanistan the United States had 2,500 soldiers and Italy was present with 895 units and we were the third contingent. But if Europe had been a federal state, its contingent in Afghanistan would have been by far the largest and much more significant influence. Today our demand for a greater presence of Europe in Libya has a pro-European sign, but one thing is to want Europe to become a federation, another is to confine ourselves to defending our concrete national interests with due respect. Europe is providing us with vaccines and help from Europe to our economy and everything is necessary, but geopolitics, Libya, Central Asia and the Middle East tell us that we also need a longer Europeanism, a Europeanism that can aspire to a federal Europe that can express a common will in the management, not only of the economy, but also of foreign and defence policy. Someone said that contemporaries rarely can perceive the great changes that are taking place before their eyes, and perhaps that is why Europe cannot see how serious the risks are. I'll finish. The transition from Trump to Biden brought an end to a nightmare, but it also highlighted once again the structural weaknesses of a Europe that cannot continue to think that its security will remain eternally entrusted to the strength of the American ally. The disengagement from Afghanistan and the events of Libya must give rise to the idea of how much real European defence is needed, a defence that has behind a European policy and armed force. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u99	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u100	Mr President, in thanking you I begin my speech from the point where Senator Zanda arrived, with his very interesting political-philosophical analysis, which rightly tends to outline the boundaries, the limits, the scope and the object of national interest. All this, however, is happening in August. Colleagues, do we realize that everything we are talking about is already largely happening and that we are ratifying what has already been going on for eight months? I therefore ask my colleagues - and myself in the first place - to take pride, and I would like to stress that. President Pinotti also spoke about this in the Commission: it is not possible to violate the law of 2016, specifically designed to enable Parliament to assess in depth the various missions which Italy rightly participates in to help maintain peace in the world; it cannot be discussed in August. It is an aberration, it is a substantial abdication of Parliament's duty to give political direction and above all to define national interest, as Senator Zanda was partly beginning to do in his speech. For the rest, I would like to refer in advance to Mr Verducci's speech, who well represented the situation in Libya and also the situation of relief, recalling the images we have all seen and no one can say that they do not know, either in this Parliament or in public opinion. There is no rescue action by the so-called Libyan Coast Guard. Do you know why they say so-called? Because there is no unitary hierarchical structure. It is composed in part by militiamen, in part by officers of the Navy and in part by the so-called GACS (General administration for coastal security) that is under the Ministry of the Libyan Interior. In essence, they are largely corrupt, criminals; they themselves are traffickers of men. Senator Zanda was always wondering how far the state can deal with the mob. To the point where there is no way to speak the same language. The state may also be obliged - as the President-in-Office said - to deal with criminals and dictators, but it takes frankness. Let's say here, then, who we're dealing with and how far we're going to go. That is why national interest must be defined first, here, in these parliamentary classrooms, in the Senate and in the House. I would like to stay on one more point: Herat, Afghanistan. We lost 53 men; the return was made almost secretly. Well, at this point, we can't get out of there without protecting those 800 people and their families. Card No. 7 is done well, as Senator Bonino said, but still remains a piece of paper: those people must be saved immediately; they must be given a visa to enter Italy tomorrow because the day after tomorrow, one of them may not be there anymore. What are we talking about, then? For doing our duty on a piece of paper? I am sure that this whole House, from Senator Rauti to me, agrees. Let us then take a concrete position: we ask directly the State Secretary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs present here - if anything he can answer immediately - what are the obstacles that hinder the safety of the 800 people, who have been with us for many years and have protected the Italians in Afghanistan. They allowed the Italians to work safely. Let us come to what I am most concerned about now: Libya. Those who signed the resolution at my first signature are not prejudiced against all missions or missions in Libya, because it is necessary to stabilize the country. But card No 48 and some parts of other cards (and that is why I ask for a split vote) must be expunged. We're funding -- you know who? - not the Libyan Coast Guard anymore; we are financing the Libyan Coast Guard which is under the command and control of the Turks. Do we know or don't we know? The news is this: the Turks have control of all the ports of Tripolitania and Tripolitania there is Tripoli. The ports of Tripoli, from which the two Libyan patrol boats depart, are under Turkish control. We are now financing the Libyans, but the Turks actually operate them. The command and control, until July 2, 2020, was ours; said Minister Guerini. On July 7, when he came to audition in the Commissions gathered 3rd and 4th he admitted - no: he confessed - that until July 2, 2020 our military ship and the communication tools of this were in the immediate availability of the so-called Libyan Coast Guard. But who was with the Libyan Coast Guard? A liaison officer, who was on board, signed a piece of paper ('Message of assumption of coordination responsibility') and his work ended. At that point, on that ship - this is proved - came the coordination arrangements, i.e. position (latitude and longitude), unit (how many people were on board) and speed. This information was written on a pinch, delivered aboard the Libyan patroller, which went out of the sea. This until 2 July 2020. The detail check was carried out by Frontex, with the Osprey, their planes, and told him where to go. There are all the recordings; there's a newspaper, "The Intercept" where Zach Campbell published everything. These interceptions show that Libyans are not as bad as we paint them, because they are mere, low performers. At the command of whom did they carry out the rejections at sea? Our: Harbour office, Coast Guard, Command in chief of the naval team and Frontex. Where, in fact, did the information that was brought to the Libyans through the military ship, if not from Italy, Malta and Frontex? So, the perpetrators of those crimes that are illegal rejections are not Libyans, it's us. We have to say today: that's enough. We create a discontinuity with this aberrant situation, because history will call us to respond; and it will call us all to respond. No one can say: I didn't see, I didn't know. We're all involved. I had tabled a minimal resolution in the Commission calling for the text to be voted on separately, to suspend the contribution of Italian taxpayers (non-European, Italian) to the various Libyan Mission Cards, No 48 in full and the others (No 18, the contribution on Safe Sea, No 34 and No 47 on EUBAM Libya) in part. In each of these cards a part of the contribution is nested. However, it has happened that the Presidency, composed of Senator Pinotti and the President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration, has not even put to the vote the resolution I signed, which is also shared by other colleagues. Senator Loredana De Petris, Head of the Mixed Group, collected the signatures and, pursuant to Rule 50 (3) of the Senate Rules, resolutions should have been seen here in the Chamber. Mr President, there is no limit in that rule: it is said that, when the necessary signatures are collected, that is, one third of the members of the Commission, the resolutions (and there is no more talk, as in paragraph 2, of those adopted) come to this House. In this way, by not bringing the resolutions to the House, the right and duty of the individual Member to assess the situation in its entirety and, above all, the vote of this House is limited. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, today you must vote on what has already been approved; you cannot evaluate and discuss... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u101	I had already given you additional time to explain this point of view, but I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u102	DE FALCO (Mixed). Only to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a democratic way. It cannot be said that this House is sovereign and that Parliament is central to the democratic order and then leave everything in the House of the Commission. If the resolution had been rejected it would make sense, but the resolution was not voted for by President Pinotti's decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u103	Thank you, Senator De Falco. I would like to give you, as well as the House, an explanation, which is just a re-reading and a memento of the Rules of Procedure. I take advantage of the explanation I have to give Senator De Falco. It's forbidden to photograph. Senator Crucioli and others, you are sitting, I imagine, on the benches of the government, but now I ask you to leave them. You know that is not possible, so I ask you to leave the benches of the government, also because you have been able to carry out your intervention. Going with order, because I was interrupted, I wanted to give an explanation about the iter followed. First of all, as you know, with regard to the work in the Commission, the adoption of resolutions precludes voting on other resolutions: this applies to resolutions as well as alternative opinions. Therefore, it is not true and cannot be accepted the interpretation proposed by Senator De Falco that the vote on the resolution in the Commission was somehow precluded. The second question is that in order to be able to debate the resolutions in this House there are two conditions: the first is that it is adopted in the Commission, the second is that it is proposed by one third of the members of the Commission. Therefore, if it were not proposed by a third of the senators, approval in the Commission would not be sufficient, but there must be both conditions and a careful reading of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure no other interpretations are allowed. Senator De Falco, I'd like to ask you, before the assistants intervene, to lower the sign, also because I'm responding to you. I'll ask the assistants to withdraw the sign. Complete to tell you, Senator De Falco, as you know, that the text of the resolution has been accepted as an agenda. [[Comments]] I do not intend to suspend the sitting, so let us continue our work. He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u104	Mr President, we understand the wish of the one who is sitting on the benches of the government today in place of the President-in-Office of the Council. Maybe we wish him, but not the Italians because, luckily, we have the best President in Europe, that is, Mario Draghi. If you want to give a stop to what is happening, we can do a very concrete and quick action. We must certainly block departures and we must ensure that the Mediterranean does not turn into an open-air morgue. To do this, we need to control our borders. I realize that what we are living in Italy today is a very difficult situation. Above all, I realize that it is very difficult to talk in a state of confusion, with a new President of the Council, of which the Italians are certainly not happy, because nobody elected him. Maybe he's autonomous. This is an autonomy to President of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u105	Senator Aimi, I'm asking you to stop for a second. In the meantime, we can't follow your intervention. Despite the invitation to the senators to leave the benches of the government, this is not observed. Also, there are gatherings always close to the government benches. So, with nothing to subtract from the time of your speech, I suspend the sitting for five minutes, apologizing for interrupting it. (The sitting was suspended at 5.26 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) I think we can resume our work. We have taken full account of the request for explanations of the regulatory procedure: a request for a split vote has been announced, and I am referring to the sovereignty of this House, and I warn you that, as always, this House will decide whether or not it intends to proceed to a split vote. We had interrupted Senator Aimi, whom we obviously apologise to. He had spoken for a few minutes; we give him back the word, also giving him back in full the time he had available. Please, Senator Aimi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, geography has placed us between the North and the South of the world. We are an extraordinary nation: we occupy 0.22 percent of the land that has emerged, a small language of land in the earthly orb, and we are 0.38 percent of the world's population, but we are a great power. Italy's presence in international missions as a second contributor is the most hand-held and evident demonstration of Italy's importance within the international chessboard. We talked yesterday about big data, 5G and cybersecurity. We are drawn from extremely sensitive discussions, which have shown that Italy is particularly fragile at the moment. It is a time when winds of war are blowing, which were blowing a year ago. We remember in Kastellorizo, Greece, the crisis with Turkey over the pipeline. They continue today in our neighbouring countries, they continue in Libya. The Israeli ambassador, heard in the Commission a short time ago, warned us and asked us whether we are aware of what is happening in the garden of our home. It is still happening in these hours in Iran, where tomorrow there will be the installation of President Raisi, with the seizure of the tanker. These are explosive situations - as Senator Bonino also said and recalled - especially in Algeria, but no less in Tunisia, where there is a really dramatic situation and there are many departures from those shores. In this context, you see, there is also all the evidence of the weakness of European policy. A Europe that has not become a superpower and a strong Italy, but that cannot express, except with these missions, its true and extraordinary nature. We are a people, however we think of it, truly extraordinary and generous; this we must recognize. [[Applause]] The policy that wants to implement Forza Italia is to put at the centre, especially in this debate, the Armed Forces, boys and girls in uniform, to which we must be absolutely close [[Applause]] The maximum number of those who are currently engaged in these 40 international missions, 38 of which have come since last year, 17 are in Africa and six are in Europe. We are working with the United Nations and the Atlantic Alliance in a truly extraordinary commitment and I say this by addressing those who have the highest positions of responsibility. For this I want to thank the Government and in particular our undersecretary for the defense, Giorgio Mulé, for the commitment that is taking place in his activity: ours is above all the recognition and certification of a battle and a presence on the territory, at national and international level, towards our Armed Forces. If, therefore, we want to try to achieve something positive, we cannot forget that our horizon must be that of an international policy that looks at the Western countries, as President Berlusconi himself pointed out at sea practice, when he pointed out that we must remain within the perimeter of the alliance with the West, which also looks at Russia, in order to prevent it from ending up in the arms of China. [[Applause]] So what do we do? I believe a nation is strong only if it practices the duty of memory. This year marks the hundredth anniversary of the approval of the law for the unknown soldier, a date for us extraordinarily important, especially because it marks a moment of rapprochement of Italy and Italians to their homeland. In these international missions we have had more than 500 deaths and thousands and thousands of wounded. The first was in 1950 - I want to remember - and then there was the tragedy of that November 12, in Nassirya. We must be absolutely grateful to those who have given their lives. [[Applause]] But we must also ask ourselves whether we have done everything possible and necessary to deserve it. In this regard I would like to make a note: when on June 29 our paratroopers of the Folgore Brigade, stationed in Herat, returned, we did not have a particularly upbuilding spectacle. It is true that there was a pandemic, but I ask the Government to set a date and a moment to thank the Armed Forces and all those who have participated in these missions over the years: the Navy, the Air Force, that is, the Blue Army, the Parachutists and the Army. A few months ago it was the 160th anniversary of the foundation of the Italian Army. Certainly we find our roots well before that year, but I think it is important to remember its foundation on the occasion of the unity of Italy. To do this we need the Government to make a strong commitment, so that a moment of recollection can be given, to remember our fallen and the importance of Italy in international missions. [[Applause]] I therefore express the full support of Forza Italia for our Armed Forces and, after turning a moved thought to the memory of many, I too cannot fail to evaluate what is happening in these hours in Afghanistan. There are territories that are completely devastated by the arrival of the Taliban and we have seen terrible footage today. There are checkpoints where people are executed briefly, perhaps because they wear a Western dress. (17.38) We have seen scenes of decapitation in the stadiums: it is a river of blood flowing, to which we must put an end and to which we must really all, together, in this House, devote great attention. [[Applause]] An important effort by the Government is needed to ensure that there can be the return of all those who have collaborated with the Italian Armed Forces. [[Applause]] I am of course referring to all the Afghans who have played the role of interpreter, people who have joked, many of whom have even been wounded in combat. An Italy grateful to its military cannot be ungrateful to those who helped save, for what was possible until then, peace in those territories. We did not, of course, like the withdrawal from Afghanistan, we did not decide it, but after twenty years the difficult and dramatic situation in which we left those people is a bit like that of Vietnam. Before I come to my conclusion, I would like to say that this House can do so much; above all, it has a duty to remember the many who have fallen. I would just like, if you will allow me, President, to remind you of the last gold medal: a target officer in Afghanistan, Giuseppe La Rosa. I would like to recall other gold medals, to make clear the moment of emotion and participation that we should all share: Sergeant Andrea Adorno, wounded in Bala Murghab, Afghanistan; Colonel Gianfranco Paglia, one of the best known heroes, also a gold medal; Jonny D'Andrea, a valiant fighter who rescued his men fighting, despite being wounded, to retrieve two girls, two comrades, who had remained inside the armored. [[Applause]] These are the beautiful examples to which even the best Italian youth should refer, not those of those who think of erecting monuments to deserters or maybe imagine a different Italy. We still need heroes, military but also civilians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u107	Senator Aimi, I join your thanks to all the men and women with the small stars of the Army, the Navy, the Carabinieri and the Air Force. Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u108	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this year too, always with a little delay, we are about to discuss in this House the authorisation for Italian participation in international military missions. I would like to make two premises before dealing with certain issues relating to this subject. The first premise that we must remember, and this is something that as a Group we often point out, is that the Italian Armed Forces are one of the flagship flowers of our country. I would also like to thank our Undersecretary, Senator Pucciarelli, for the work he is doing right now. In a period of renewal like this in which we live, in which we talk about reprogramming the country from here to the next thirty years, let's put ourselves in the head that our Armed Forces must be considered like other Italian excellences. Our Armed Forces and in general the entire Italian defence sector are an excellence recognized all over the world, a reason for boasting for our country and a strategic asset that allows us to be competitive on a global scale. We come to the second premise: the international missions are not a great wagon to join for reasons of political opportunity, but they represent, above all for a medium power like ours, the opportunity that a State has to position itself in the world; the opportunity, in short, to pursue our international strategic interests, inserted in a multilateral context and of clear alliances. For these reasons it is important that the debate in Parliament, the house of democracy [[Applause]] , rediscovers the very high value of pursuing the interests of our country, but this detail is all too often forgotten in the political debates that accompany the vote of international missions. Speeches that derive from a political ideology should be kept far away in this debate: the only lighthouse that should accompany such a vote is, as I said, the pursuit of our national interests, because this serves the military instrument abroad. After all, I would like to quickly analyse some very positive aspects of the international missions that we are about to vote on. The aspect that I would like to stress (and of which I am fully satisfied) is what sees the African quadrant, with 17 missions, as a priority for our interests. The strategy that our country sees continues to increase the concentration of its resources towards the South front and that part of the African continent that develops within the triangle Gulf of Guinea, Horn of Africa and Libya. The African continent is fundamental for the future of our country, ladies and gentlemen, first of all in the North African and Sahelian region, a priority area in terms of security and the containment of illegal immigration. We are pleased that with the advent of the new Government we have finally returned to engage constantly in the Libyan game. North Africa and Sahel are crucial areas for the transit of migratory flows to the Mediterranean and in recent years have experienced a context of progressive deterioration of the security situation and deep destabilisation due to multiple causes: from the activism of jihadist armed groups, to interethnic conflicts and extreme poverty, increased also by the advent of the pandemic. Our military presence must have as its sole objectives the stabilisation of the area and establish strong bilateral relations with the states. A second African region that is fundamental to our country's interests is that of the Gulf of Guinea. In this case our interests are clearly of an energy-commercial type: the extraction and supply of hydrocarbons, in relation to our industry, is the main asset to be protected. It must be remembered that about 90% of the seizures at sea in the world have taken place in this area, therefore it is essential to ensure the safety of shipping routes in this region and to reach solid bilateral relations with countries such as Togo, Benin, Cameroon, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea and Congo, in order to protect our long-term commercial interests. The third region is that of the Horn of Africa, which among other things also presents the only novelty, together with the mission to the Strait of Hormuz, among the missions for 2021. I am speaking clearly of the new mission in Somalia, where an Italian representative will take part in the United Nations assistance mission. We are pleased that our country, together with international organizations, shows that it wants to continue to work for the strengthening of Somali institutions and the transitional federal government. The Horn of Africa, once a quadrant in which our projection and influence was first in the world, remains a priority area for global trade junctions and Italy has a duty to play a leading role. To conclude, may I briefly mention the announcement of the Italian leadership of the mission in Iraq. This is an important recognition for a twenty-year commitment, which must also be honoured in the memory of Italian soldiers who have lost their lives fighting terrorism and trying to stabilize a country torn by wars and poverty. [[Applause]] We have engaged in Afghanistan, demonstrating great skills from the training point of view and closeness to the population, and we will certainly do the same in Iraq. We have a capital to spend, great capacities and a great credibility to the allies. Iraq is a country to be rebuilt and assumed the leadership of the military mission means promoting our involvement in the reconstruction phase. This is what we mean by using the military instrument as an ability to position oneself in the world: synergy between the world of defence, economic and diplomatic. This is what our country needs to reaffirm itself in the near future as one of the main actors of the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u109	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said, but it must be said that for us in Movimento 5 Stars too, the delay with which the deliberations were presented to the Chambers must be stigmatised, as it limits the exercise of parliamentary functions of control and political direction on a crucial subject such as international military policy. And this is all the more serious when we talk about missions that are suspended, or radically change their nature during the year before the transition to the two branches of Parliament. In view of this, we consider the intervention on Law No 145 of 21 July 2016 (so-called framework law on missions) essential in order to ensure a better timing of the parliamentary examination. Having said that, let us enter into the substance of the matter by making it clear immediately that for Movimento 5 Stars the protection of human rights remains an indispensable and indispensable objective always and everywhere and also in Libya, where our primary objectives are to ensure security and the process towards national stability. We will do this by sharing our expertise in health, strengthening security, providing specialist assistance in the training of militias, monitoring and anticipating with diplomatic action the criticalities that can give rise to new episodes of military escalation in which - let us remember - the local population always pays the price. Unlike the previous speakers, I would like to make it clear loudly that the Italian Government has not provided funding for the Libyan coastguard. [[Applause]] I say this to prevent false and tendentious news from spreading. It is clear that there is still so much to do and it is right that Italy should do so. There. In this regard, I recall that a few weeks ago, for the first time in history, right here in Italy we welcomed the anti-Daesh coalition, an event that concretely bears witness to what is being done to counter the phenomenon of international terrorism; an event that testifies to the great commitment of the Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio, to whom were then addressed serious threats published by the weekly of the ISIS "Al-Naba". [[Applause]] But the stabilisation process of the area must continue. Italy must be the central pillar of the Mediterranean until all operations are conducted under the leadership of the European Union, until Europe takes charge of the training and support of the Libyan Coast Guard. Until then, Italy cannot back down. In fact, if we decided to pull the plug, we would create a dangerous short circuit, an exponential increase of migratory flows with boats and carts of the sea with men, women and children on board, who would leave from the coast to navigate in inhuman conditions endangering their lives. This doesn't have to happen anymore. All the initiatives put in place in this direction, namely the protection of human conditions, promoting more effective management of international standards of migratory flows, ensuring protection for the most vulnerable and thus combating trafficking in human beings. No less important, however, is to point out that the vacuum determined by our absence would allow other countries - who are waiting for nothing else - to sneak in, producing serious prejudice for the future role that our country will be able to play in Libya. In terms of cooperation for the control of migratory flows and North Africa, I cannot fail to express strong concern about the situation in Tunisia, a country of primary importance from this point of view, on which Italy is consequently investing heavily. The Tunisian political crisis risks further exacerbating an already critical socio-economic situation, which is pushing an entire generation of young Tunisians to leave the country. Not to mention the dangerous repercussions of the political and institutional crisis on the functionality and operation of the Tunisian authorities responsible for the control of coastal waters. The risk is an uncontrolled boom of boat departures. It is urgent to restore the political, economic and social stability of Tunisia, including by implementing all the interventions of Italian cooperation provided for in the last Memorandum of Understanding on Italian-Tunis cooperation in support of youth employment, education and development. Remaining in the area of cooperation with Africa, also in a key to countering the causes of migratory flows, the other situation that arouses great concern is that of Ethiopia, where the humanitarian crisis triggered by the Tigray conflict takes on a dramatic dimension with hundreds of millions of people displaced within the same country and the neighbouring regions of Afar and Amara, while over 60,000 refugees have already crossed the border with Sudan. It is urgent for Ethiopia to guarantee humanitarian access to these regions in order to prevent the worst. Considering that the new three-year programme of Italian cooperation with Ethiopia is still in the process of being defined, we consider it necessary to modulate all the interventions of cooperation towards this country in the light of what is happening. We come to the country that for the longest has engaged our Armed Forces with very high human and financial costs, Afghanistan, where in twenty years our nation has been faced with the painful loss of fifty-three military, not to mention the more than seven hundred wounded and mutilated and the expense of at least 8.5 billion euros. A very high human and economic cost for a mission of which the Movimento 5 Stars has always demanded the conclusion with the withdrawal of our soldiers: I remind everyone that this was the first political request submitted with a motion that the Movimento 5 Stars made just entered Parliament in 2013. Today, therefore, we can only be happy for the conclusion of this twenty-year military expedition, but we cannot be equally satisfied with the way in which it is being concluded. In order not to recognize the failed reality of this war, with the Taliban remaining in power in almost all the country and an unstable government, which without NATO troops, does not even control Kabul, it has been decided to abandon the camp in the pious illusion that the ganghered Afghan army can resist alone. It did not want to really deal with the Taliban, who represent the Pashtun majority of the population, to include them in a new federal and multi-ethnic government, provided they are committed against ISIS and al-Qaeda and for the respect of human rights and women. A solution that, incidentally, the Taliban still say they are ready to accept in exchange for the ceasefire. In order not to frustrate the efforts made and the results achieved and not to let Afghanistan sink into a new civil war, like Movimento 5 Stars we hope that Italy will promote a real peacekeeping mission, remaining at the forefront of a civil mission, which works intensely for national reconciliation and disarmament of militias, for the reconstruction of the country and for strengthening development cooperation, for the protection of human rights. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say a word of thanks. The positive consideration concerns the increase in financial appropriations to guarantee security and protection to our diplomats and compatriots in countries at risk, a fundamental requirement, which unfortunately is often forgotten to return to the limelight only as a result of dramatic events, such as the assassination in Congo last February of our young ambassador Luca Attanasio, killed in an ambush together with the escort policeman Vittorio Iacovacci and their local driver. [[Applause]] Thanks go to our Ministers, to the Minister of Defence Lorenzo Guerini and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Luigi Di Maio, engaged in the constant activity and treatment of international relations to continue the dialogue for the stabilisation process and to better promote the holding of elections on 24 December next, the implementation of the ceasefire, the adoption of the unified budget, national reconciliation. Finally, since Italy participates in 40 international missions, I want to extend a huge thank you to the civil and military personnel and their families, to the members of the Armed Forces and the Forces of Order, to all men and women engaged in Italy in all the theatres operating. Thanks go to them for everything they do and how they do it. Thank you, who make Italy great in the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u111	On behalf of the Presidency, I support all the thanks that have been expressed during the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u114	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, as Vice-President Rossomando presided over the work of the Assembly, there was a very heated debate, initiated by Mr Toninelli, in relation to the Government's will to appoint Dr de Carolis to the ANAS summits. I have expressed the desire to present an agenda on this subject, on which I am naturally willing to accept the signatures of all my colleagues who wanted it, because I believe that Parliament, in general, and the Senate in particular, do not express their will, nor their power of direction and control over government acts through general discussions, petitions of principle or fine letters, but through political acts supported by a vote. [[Applause]] So, Mr President, I am asking you and, through you, President Alberti Casellati, to reopen the deadline for tabling amendments and agendas to the decree-law that we will discuss tomorrow, a decree that concerns the transport and transport sector is dealt with by ANAS. The agenda that I have presented is perfectly compatible and consistent with the contents of the decree; there is no problem of inadmissibility and, to good connoisseur, a few words. I would therefore ask the Presidency to reopen the deadline for tabling an agenda which I will gladly share with colleagues who wish to sign it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u117	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to make a request for us to reopen the deadlines so that we can present an agenda on this subject. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u120	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, we in the Alternative also support the request for the reopening of the deadline for tabling amendments to the Venice measure on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u121	Colleagues, I will inform the President immediately and give you an answer if possible by the end of today's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u122	The joint debate is closed. I note that the texts of the resolutions of the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a have been presented with the agendas of the G1 presented by Senator De Falco and other Senators, and G2 presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, whose texts are distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u125	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I have not tabled any agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u126	If the offices wrote it to me, I'm guessing you introduced it and then withdrew it. DE FALCO (Mixed). Absolutely not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then it's a mistake. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in their reply, I call on the representative of the Government to speak on the resolutions already adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u127	Mr President, in thanking the senators for this afternoon's debate, which is careful, passionate and also critical, I would like to say a few words about one of the points that has been referred to several times, which is what Afghanistan is about. As you know, the withdrawal has been decided in accordance with the principle in together, out together and we do not want it to mark the end of international support for the country, especially in the light of the rapid deterioration of the situation on the ground, and we will continue to support the Afghan population and institutions with a strengthening of civil cooperation. With regard to a subject that you raised, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Defence and the Farnesina are working to transfer those who have worked with our contingent and their families in recent years. Operation Aquila is organizing the humanitarian transfer of Afghan civilian personnel who have been at the side of Italy. To date 228 employees and their families have arrived in Italy; they have already completed quarantine and have been relocated to the national territory. Between August and October the Defense plans to complete a second return that should cover about 400 Afghan citizens and Farnesina is working on measures to facilitate the transfer to Italy of Afghan citizens who have collaborated with the embassy and development cooperation offices. It is a moral and active commitment, involving the Ministries of Defence, the Interior and Foreign Affairs, as a signal that we do not want to abandon those who have worked for freedom and democracy in Afghanistan. I would add that we are considering - together with the other partners of the European Union - initiatives under the umbrella of the United Nations in both New York and Geneva which include international mechanisms to monitor to prevent massive violations of human rights. These are of course initiatives to be taken in agreement with the Afghan Government. Mr President, the Government's opinion is in favour of both resolutions. It is against Mr De Petris's first draft agenda, and it is against Mr De Petris's first draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u131	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for allowing me to speak first. In expressing the favour of the Forza Italia Group to international missions, as is tradition, I recall that we have always voted in favour, even when, according to the opposition, our vote could have accidentally saved governments (especially if left-wing) that have often encountered difficulties, divisions and lacerations on these issues. Forza Italia believes that international military missions are an opportunity to qualify Italy's commitment to democracy, the right of peoples, peace and freedom. We believe that military peace missions are also an instrument of international politics and that, not only in the Mediterranean area, but also in other places, far further away, where we are traditionally present, have always been a source of pride, honor and qualification for the Italian presence, not only military, but also political, economic and other. Our position is therefore clear; indeed, we did not even call for the debate in this House, unlike other occasions, considering that what happened in the Commissions was sufficient. Since, however, the debate is, as is normal, because the Rules of Procedure allow us to activate this procedure, we take the opportunity not only to reaffirm this position, which is of security policy, military and international, but also to reaffirm once more (as several colleagues have done before, in particular Senator Aimi) solidarity, support and appreciation to our armed forces, to their commitment, to their self-denial and to the ability with which they are working in contexts often still crossed by conflicts and phenomena of terrorism, demonstrating the Italian ability to educate democracy, duty and proper management of territories and the government of peoples. However, the delay in discussing these matters puts us in a dilemma. We are about to vote on the continuation of the final part of the mission in Afghanistan, which has actually ended, because then the measures come a little out of hand, so we confirm what we did, but from Afghanistan there has been a withdrawal. I turn to the government, which we support, and I invite everyone to read the daily reports coming from Afghanistan. This House has raised the issue of interpreters, people who have worked with the Italians, the Americans and NATO troops and who are now exposed to the retaliation of the Taliban. This is not only the problem, however, ladies and gentlemen: it is a moral duty, because in a country where people who have no right to come here illegally land, I believe that it is necessary to welcome those who have sacrificed themselves with us for the freedom of their own people. We have clear positions on this, but we cannot confine ourselves to the subject of interpreters. Read the news: I have articles here that until this morning tell us how by now Taliban domination in Afghanistan has reached 85 percent of the territory; the Taliban begin to regain the cities, after twenty years of commitment in Afghanistan, that here we confirm posthumously for its final tail, because the Italians have already returned. Maybe the government could have greeted the last military returning from Afghanistan with a little more heat [[Applause]] , because there were not even moments of recognition, as we said on other occasions to Minister Guerini when he came to talk about these issues. We've had over 50 deaths in Afghanistan and so many deaths on other missions. Every day, when we open the newspapers, we read news of this tenor: The great escape from Afghanistan is a humanitarian tragedy, because millions of people are ready to escape from Afghanistan. At a time when there are serious phenomena of migration, we will have a very dramatic situation, which could be brought down to the West. The Taliban, as has already been said, have contacts with China and there are also geopolitical dangers. Here we talk a lot about rights, we have suspended the debate on a controversial law, but the rights of Afghan women and those who are victims of the Taliban dictatorship, do we want to remember them or do we have to dismiss them? Those who would like us to pass a little questionable laws on other fields remind us that rights must be observed at 360 degrees. We took part in the Afghan mission after 9/11, because Afghanistan was the place from which the most offensives against the world started and where, from Bin Laden to others, they found refuge - in complicated mountain areas, which neither the British, nor the Russians, nor others over the centuries have ever managed to control, what we once called the mujahidins, when they opposed the Russian invasion, and which, taken from fundamentalism, proved to be a threat to the free world. I think we should consider whether it was appropriate to interrupt that mission. Moreover, the American disengagement - let us be honest - did not allow other countries to remain there, because the strength and organization of the United States is a shield also for multilateral and international missions and the Afghan one was not a walk. They're about to take Herat. Do you remember that name, Herat? There was a position of the Italians. We have sacrificed toil and blood to defend that land, which today will be conquered. It's just a time problem. Then I read that the current Afghan Government sends troops and I don't know what it intends to do, but I think there is no comparison. I address the representatives of the Government, but I realize that I cannot overload the Subsecretaries present here with a planetary problem: I think that perhaps the international community should be questioned. I am not here to ask for votes for separate parties, because we share the commitment in Libya and we believe that those who want to disarm it want to promote further illegal immigration in Italy. [[Applause]] Let us worry about the Afghan interpreters, not the illegals who come from Libya to Italy. Respecting each one's parliamentary initiatives, we are therefore in favour of the confirmation of Card No. 48 and the reaffirmation of our commitment to Libya, where I see that, among other things, the Ministers of this Government (the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior) also go. It is not only an international problem, Libya, but also a security problem. Then there is Tunisia, with everything that is happening. The problems are many, but a reflection should be made on the advance - or, better, on the programmed, but perhaps the exact word is untimely - interruption of the Afghan mission, which is putting the free world in front of a serious threat. The themes of fundamentalism are not in fact exhausted: they resurface, now here, now there, and also the crisis of Tunisia, a country that is a few miles from Sicily, contains this germ. It's no use pretending we don't. Noticing. The phenomena of North Africa, the Turkish presence and many other factors make us understand that perhaps, dear colleagues, not only do we have to confirm these missions and obviously also the card n. 48, but if anything we hope that Italy can educate more and more the Libyan Coast Guard and support Libya towards a path of democracy and freedom, as did the Berlusconi governments (and today we had to recover the pacts of friendship between Italy and Libya). [[Applause]] I remember those who laughed at the tents at Villa Pamphili: they were concerned about the camp of illegals that are all over Italy. Dialogue with Gaddafi may have produced more fruits than chasing unstable situations. Therefore, in confirming all the missions and renewing solidarity and support for the Armed Forces, I would also like to thank Minister Brunetta. You may wonder what this has to do with: the reason is that he reopened negotiations for the security-defense sector, which has seen the contract expired for two years. [[Applause]] The Armed Forces should not be praised, but paid better and also provided with a contract that respects its specificity. This government has resumed this negotiation. Do not hold the bell, Mr President, for I have so much finished, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because what I had to say...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u132	Don't anticipate my thought: it has more than a minute, so there is all the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u133	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, I had seen your move: then I take advantage of it to say yes to these missions, to the engagement in Libya and to the support of the Armed Forces. I also hope that soon that new contract will be signed - the Commission also unanimously defends these issues has always been attentive and diligent - and that it will rethink that mission in Afghanistan, so as not to make a battle for democracy and freedom vain, which has cost the lives of many Italian soldiers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u136	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I am pleased to have signed the request of a group of colleagues, allowing this debate to be held here. I believe that we have also given dignity to international missions, which are a large part of the foreign policy and the image of Italy in the world, precisely by coming to discuss this important document and this resolution in Parliament. The speakers Vattuone and Bishops were very clear and the Group for the Autonomouss, which I represent, adheres to their approach, therefore will vote in favour of the military missions. Who presides this House has been Minister of Defence and knows, how and better than we do, that the cornerstone of Italy's politics in the world are international missions. These, together with our military, women and men, with a collateral and parallel help of the volunteering of extraordinary forces that Italy puts on the field, are the emblematic image of what Italians do for others, in an original way, with competence and professionalism. I could conclude here, because the speech is basically that of colleagues. However, there are two issues that weigh heavily on this debate and that have been evoked: one, with force, by Senator Gasparri, and that is the issue of Afghanistan; the other is the issue of Libya. [[Brusio. References by the President]] I want to make this clear, ladies and gentlemen: it is true that, after 20 years, we withdraw from Afghanistan and the situation is, unfortunately, in danger of returning the clock's hands to 20 years ago. What is happening - beyond the Doha talks and approaches with the American administration of Trump and then Biden - between the Taliban and the Westerners was, to a large extent, a heap of words and commitments written on the sand. I am pleased that Mr Della Vedova has given us guarantees in this regard, but the fact that we have to worry about evacuating the staff who worked with the Italians means that the Western community, starting from Europe, Italy and the United States, has to question what has been, objectively, in my opinion, a potential failure of this mission. I cannot use different words, colleagues, because that is the case. We return to 20 years ago and the Taliban are taking power, without any guarantee for the values we have defended. In fact, we defended the possibility for women to vote and for girls not to have combined marriages, to rape them in an absolutely prevaricating way of their will; we allowed access to the education of Afghan girls, who were forced to serve at home. All this is a result that cannot be spotted by a return sic et simpliciter to twenty years ago. There is a risk, because a misleading and traditionalist interpretation of Islam, as some do in that reality, risks resetting the battle for civil rights that has been waged. There has not been a battle against the Taliban, in fact, for a single problem of countering terrorism. Do you remember when the Taliban threw down monuments that were heritage cultures that history erased? We defended that thing there, namely the idea that history, culture and civilization are also in Afghanistan in a position to have the right to citizenship. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the speech is too complicated and I cannot continue it, because you are all too smart and you have understood what I mean. Before we find ourselves a new Afghanistan in the coming years, I hope that the Western community will reflect well, because we risk having, from Afghanistan to Iraq, the same scenario that is dramatically repeated. As far as Libya is concerned, I am a great admirer of my colleague, Mr Verducci, who also collaborates with me, as vice-president, in the Interparliamentary Union. I obviously do not agree with your agenda, but I also want to say that I understand what he is saying. Moreover, a guarantee from the point of view of our foreign policy, like Emma Bonino, has had many considerations similar to those you make. Colleagues, the point, however, here too, as on Afghanistan, is that we must look ourselves in the face and say with reality that we are transferring a land problem to the sea. Basically, we are deceiving ourselves that the issue on which we are contending is whether or not we should give aid to the Libyan Coast Guard, which brings migrants back to the camps. Of course, unfortunately, there are these situations. Why does this happen? Because we are ineffective on earth and because we have lost any chance of affecting the Libyan issue, as we risk having lost it on the issue of Tunisia, because an undeclared war is taking place in the Mediterranean, but it is fiercely fought between Qatar and Turkey, on the one hand, and the Gulf countries, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, on the other. We are basically being spectators in the courtyard and in the garden of our home. Years ago, a magazine that I appreciate very much, "Limes" wrote that, in order to understand what is happening in the Mediterranean, we must go to the Gulf. That is the case, but this means the failure of Europe, our own and also that concept of multilateralism which we affirm by voting on these international peace missions. Here then we have to rethink everything and rethink it out of the slogans. We have had pro-Trump rhetoric and anti-Trump rhetoric; the reality of things is that Trump's policy today - apart from good manners and a slightly better ability to be in the world - I do not think it is much denied by what Biden is doing, for example in approaches to multilateralism and Europe. This is a problem for us, because we must take our responsibilities. Italy is the only country and the only shareholder of the Mediterranean that succeeded, at the same time, to be against Egypt and Turkey, which are great enemies among themselves in the Mediterranean. Sorry, but then there will be some problems in our policy. We must probably have the courage to make reflections that cost. If we go to talk about Egypt, there are the cases of Regeni and Zaki and our right sentiments about civil rights; but don't think not to pay for these sentiments and that there is no one who is playing on the national sentiment that Italy rightly claims to replace her in other ways. Here there is a tangle and the theme of international peace missions is the drop compared to a piece and a mosaic that we no longer manage to govern. Colleagues, we vote for these missions, but I think we really have a lot to do, to try to understand the geopolitical scenario in which we move, full of concerns and which, in my opinion, gives you and our children a country and a much more difficult international situation. We are the children - I am referring to the oldest of us: President La Russa as I am - of a generation accustomed to the Cold War and, when the Berlin Wall fell, we thought we had solved half of our problems. The result is that the problems have become worse and today we find even more of them. I believe that, in geopolitical terms, they have many reflections to do especially those who have the responsibility to manage the government of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u139	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, peace and stability on the international front and security for women and men in our contingents, as well as on the internal front: these are the objectives with which we are preparing today to vote for the renewal of our international missions. They are developing on a double track: our commitment to NATO, in the wake of an Atlantic Alliance which has finally been strengthened without ambiguity, thanks to the new Executive, and on the other hand the European missions needed to promote geopolitical normalization processes, in a series of strategic territories also for our internal security. All in all, apart from the withdrawal from Afghanistan, for the current year the mission decree basically confirms the international missions already in place in 2020 on three continents, with a progressive attention to the enlarged Mediterranean, pursued also with the start of two new operations: one first in the Strait of Hormuz, with the use of an aeronaval device aimed mainly at the contrast of piracy to the detriment of commercial ships, and a second operation in Somalia, with our deployment aimed at promoting the rule of law. Our operational commitments in the African area therefore evolve with numerous Italian missions, confirming a strategy that aims to promote greater attention to the African continent, especially in the area included in the triangle between the Gulf of Guinea, the Horn of Africa and Libya in the North. Especially in Libya we believe that it is necessary to stay and that our country must be active protagonist in the stabilisation process, through a commitment that also aims to stem the irrefutable protagonism of external foreign forces, who try to take advantage of Libyan fragility, to give voice to their expansionist aims. Our departure would mean creating further instability in the Mediterranean. On the other hand, we reaffirm the need for our presence in Libya to serve the protection of human rights, because it is not acceptable for the local coastguard to spur dinghies with migrants on board or shoot at our fishermen's fishing boats, and it is even less acceptable for it to do so if it is financed and formed by our country. We cannot stand for violations of international law of this kind to take place with the endorsement of our public money. Already last year, on the occasion of the vote on international missions, the Italian Government undertook to intervene against the Libyan Coast Guard, in order to induce it to respect human and international rights. The Government had in fact accepted our agenda, signed by various political forces, which provided training courses for Libyans on respect for human rights, the free access of international organisations to reception centres and the provision of humanitarian corridors for legal immigration. A year later, however, this commitment remains, unfortunately, largely unawaited and the situation has deteriorated further, as the news of the last few weeks shows. That is why, last week in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration and today in this House, we are asking for the vote on the measure by separate parties, with respect to the card concerning the financing of the Libyan Coast Guard, funding on which, like Italy alive, we will not take part in the vote. Our intention is to express two political considerations. On the one hand, we express our firm will to strongly support international missions, which we believe should be a clear moment of national unity alongside our armed forces. At the same time, however, we feel the need to point out our disappointment with regard to the mission in question. While we are opposed to Italy's disengagement from Libya, on the other hand we are convinced that our presence should serve the protection of rights and not to violate them. We therefore believe that it is necessary to ask ourselves how our commitment to support the Libyan Coast Guard should be changed so that our funding does not end up in the wrong hands in favour of torturers and torturers. Precisely because we strongly believe in the role of our quotas, we will not participate in the vote on Sheet 48. With the measure on our agenda, Italian action is also exercised in the Middle East Asian quadrant in the Persian Gulf region, where our country is present with several missions, starting from Lebanon, a territory in which there remains a worrying institutional stalemate and a constant economic decline, which risk leading the country to collapse. That is why Italy confirms its commitment alongside the Lebanese security forces to an exact year, today, from the terrible explosion at the port of Beirut. Equally strategic, in a key to the fight against terrorism, but also of sharing in the economic reconstruction of the country, is the confirmation of our Italian commitment to Iraq, a country that has been among our first suppliers of crude oil for years. But with the renewal of the international missions we pursue the objective of the fight against ISIS also in other areas, in particular in North Africa, the Sahel, as well as in sub-Saharan Africa and Mozambique, where security is threatened by Daesh affiliates who have been able to recompact and represent a concrete political and military threat and where our presence on certain territories can be decisive in order to hinder in the birth a whole series of possible terrorist cells. Our important presence in Niger is also confirmed, where we are from 2018 with a bilateral mission of support aimed at combating the trafficking of human beings towards Libya, confirming how much our country has engaged in the fight against international crime and fundamentalism. With the same commitment it is necessary for Italy to work for the pacification of Afghanistan, despite the fact that our twenty-year mission has just ended, because leaving only the Afghan people would mean that we would probably soon pay the consequences ourselves. As far as the European quadrant is concerned, our armed forces are present on six missions. In particular, it remains crucial that in the Balkans, which unfortunately continues to be Europe's historic powder keg, where the possible escalation of tensions could have devastating effects throughout the area and where it is therefore widespread interest to ensure greater stabilisation. The refinancing of our international missions also responds to the need to ensure adequate levels of security for our military. There are 9.449 women and men engaged in the various operations around the world, true peacemakers who play a valuable role also for the countries in which they operate, often providing for the construction of roads, schools, hospitals, through a work done with dedication and sense of the State, in those same places where until recently there were only bombardments and rubble. However, they expose themselves to increasingly insidious risks, also linked to new types of threats, the so-called hybrid wars, characterized by multiple types of attacks that require adequate levels of defense both with respect to equipment and in terms of training and specialisation. It is therefore necessary to achieve ever-higher standards of military capabilities, which allow at the same time to align at international level with a view to a complete European autonomy in the defence sector. The debate on the Mission Decree can therefore also become an opportunity to understand the need for the development of the National Armed Forces as coordinated and integrated as possible at European level. At our gates we have complex geopolitical scenarios that endanger our security. That is why we need a common strategy of national and foreign security that gives Italy and Europe the ability to best address those conflict situations that we have in the geopolitical sphere of our interest. Conflicts that can have strategic repercussions on our country and on the entire continent in the matter of energy supply, but also for the protection from terrorist attacks or regarding migratory flows. It is necessary, therefore, for Italy to work hard to ensure that the European Union acquires greater weight and protagonism in defence and security policy and that it becomes a driving force for foreign policy to protect the interests of the entire Continent, not to become the maker of aggressions, but to be able to be an actor of peace and not a passive spectator of the wars of others. However, the measure on international missions is also the most important instrument with which our country confronts and contributes to this overall strategy of defence and security at international level, and it is also an opportunity for our Parliament to thank from the heart and to express warm closeness to all women and men of our Armed Forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u142	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Brothers of Italy has always voted in favour of international missions and will always be at the side of our armed forces engaged both in their homeland and abroad. That is why we will not vote in favour this time either, but let us say with conviction that it is enough for government deliberations on this matter to be passed on to Parliament and to the committees which do not even have time to carry out the appropriate assessments. I say this because this is a lack of respect that produces severe schizophrenia and aphasia, so we are discussing measures that have ended, missions that have taken place, that have ended. I mean, ours is an ex post approval, which we say is enough. For a long time, Brothers of Italy has required that there be time on this subject to discuss foreign policy choices, to make a political point on the missions carried out and also on the most critical and even changing scenarios. Returning to the schizophrenia in which all this happens, I too would like to mention the issue of Afghanistan. Today we approve of a mission that ended with the withdrawal of our contingent and while here we are debating a mission that has come to an end the Taliban are regaining the country piece by piece [[Applause]] , much earlier and unfortunately much easier than you could imagine. And then this is not only schizophrenia, but also a sense of impotence. That is why I would also like to repeat, as Mr Malan and other senators have said, that we have learned of this withdrawal from the media, since there has not been a real parliamentary passage on this issue. Moreover, I must say with sadness that no institutional political authority has accepted the Folgore Brigade, which was the last part of the contingent to return together with the war flag of the 186th regiment, and do not talk to me about the pandemic, because we are still waiting for the date of reception that was indicated after the quarantine, which has passed. Undersecretary Della Vedova, I ask your attention because you made a very important passage on a topic that Brothers of Italy among the first denounced with your questions, namely the return of interpreters, their families, those who collaborated. You said 228 came back. I am pleased that we had 182; it is better this way; we are concerned, however, that it said that some 400 Afghan citizens will return in time, but perhaps this time may not be there. I would like to take advantage of this, because I would like you to make a commitment here today. I would like to mention a case for everyone - which you are certainly aware of - concerning Suraya Pakzad, a human rights activist and the women who, secretly from the Taliban, had the girls study. He asked, without obtaining it, for a visa to come to Italy with his family and his six children and risks his life not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but today. This activist is the symbol that shows that we must do more to bring back those who helped us and collaborate with us to build peace. I continue to leave out a few aspects, since there are many nodes when it comes to missions. I am thinking, for example, of the critical relationship we have with the United Arab Emirates. He pretends nothing and keeps hiding his head in the sand. We have also questioned the relevant ministers because we know - and it is well known - that we have been dislocated from our air base in Al Minhad. Without a lot of compliments, they sent us away and on July 2 we had to get rid of it quickly and furiously. Of course there are backgrounds (this is retaliation and there are trade issues, we are not stupid), but, precisely for this reason, we would like to know and understand. So far we haven't had the answers we expected. We don't even have answers to the Irini command, who waited for visas to enter Tripoli. Probably in Libya we do not want and prefer other foreign pressures outside Europe (I think about Russia and, with greater concern, Turkey). On Irini we have our position, because we would like the operation to be strengthened and expanded, as it could be a force of control on the entire central route of the Mediterranean, also to prevent the trafficking of human beings by the hullists. There are many nodes that pass through the permissions that we give ex post - I repeat - to our international missions. There is also the controversial issue of Card No 48 on the training of the Libyan Coast Guard. Let us not have an ideological debate on this issue. Furthermore, as a member of the opposition, let me say that the majority must not bring its internal contradictions to the Commission and to this House, because what we have seen in both fora is not acceptable. You have different positions in foreign policy and you are divided, but this cannot be a reflection of the choices we take and, above all, of the guarantees we owe to our military. I also think of the new missions, such as the one in the Strait of Hormuz, where perhaps the frigate of the Navy, given its relations with the Emirates, will not even be able to arrive. I am going to conclude because, unfortunately, I have run out of time at my disposal. There are many issues and problems, and that is precisely why it would be necessary to have a serious and undefiled parliamentary debate, so as to give guarantees to our military. This is one of the reasons why our vote will be in favour; we do it more for them than for the conduct and foreign policy of this Government and those who have succeeded in this legislature. We will always be in favour of our armed forces because we appreciate them and know their commitment, the capacity of builders and peacemakers, as well as civil and military cooperation. [[Applause]] When we go on mission we bring Mediterranean, European and Italian identity and make it known and appreciated to the rest of the world. No one has ever been able to speak ill of our contingents, and none of our military has ever been guilty of anything but commitment, passion and courage. Thinking of the Mediterranean, what Braudel called the liquid continent, we have to say that it is there that everything is played; what seems far away really concerns us. What we do on a mission keeps the terrorist threat away from our homes and today more than ever this is fundamental. We were talking yesterday about cybersecurity challenges. With our missions, as I said, we carry a Mediterranean vocation, a precise identity and a will to be builders of peace. I would like the government's foreign policy to have a credible, coherent, linear posture capable of fulfilling its commitments. I would simply like the government's foreign policy to be up to our military. [[Applause]] , which are always up to the uniforms they wear and the commitments they make. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u145	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to extend my greetings to all my fellow Members, to the members of the Government and, in particular, to our Undersecretary, Senator Pucciarelli. Meanwhile, for the benefit of the shorthand report, I declare the favorable vote of my Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione for the documents as presented by the rapporteurs. We are talking about international missions, that is, the protection of our national interest primarily, which has always been at the heart of the League, and we are gratefully at the side of our Armed Forces. I say this because in the debate there has been a tendency to talk about each mission as if it were something to itself. There is, in my opinion, an excess of analysis, but a certain degree of synthesis is needed. I'll explain. Starting from the West, we find missions in the Gulf of Guinea (in front of the coasts of Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea), missions in sub-Saharan Africa; missions and interventions in Libya, the Central Mediterranean, the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean, Lebanon, Iraq and Syria, the Arabian Peninsula, the Gulf of Aden, the Horn of Africa, and the Strait of Hormuz is the novelty of this year. But what does that mean? If we join all these dots and look not at the single mission but at the path, we see the path of our lifeblood: energy. Since we are always talking about oil needs, energy sources and raw materials, we are never talking about numbers. In December 2020 Italy had a need, looking only at oil (with the exception of natural gas), of 1 million barrels per day. One million barrels are about 159 million liters; I repeat, a day. From the Strait of Hormuz, to make a proportion, 18 million barrels pass per day; from the Suez Canal about 1.5 million. We're not talking about wealth, we're talking about making the country work. That is why I call for greater pragmatism in the examination of international missions, because we risk confusing the ideal with the real and what we want with what we need. On 26 and 27 August the thirty-ninth anniversary of the Lebanon mission will be celebrated: about five hundred targets and carabinieri landed in Lebanon, under the leadership of Colonel Tosetti. It has a special meaning, because it was the first international mission after World War II. At that time the Minister of Defence was Lelio Lagorio of the Socialist Party, who was particularly committed to this mission. Attention, of course, everyone speaks well of our armed forces, of the relationship with the local people, of the contribution to the protection of human rights and the defence of democracy, but we must not forget that it is not a point game; we are not showing anyone how good we are. We must protect our interests, which does not mean playing a game of merchants. The problem is the survival and functioning of the country. Since there is talk of ecological transition, 16% of the electricity that Italy needs, despite imports of oil and liquid gas and despite the alternative energies that are difficult to assert, is imported from abroad, in particular from France, nuclear power and nuclear power, we do not open any debate. What I want to stress is the fundamental question of missions. Insected, as we are, in an international context, NATO is a very important pillar for us and the transatlantic relationship is the cornerstone of our foreign policy. In fact, I refuse to think that there is someone democratically elected here who believes that China is the reference for the society of the future because, even with all the defects they can have, the United States certainly does not lack democracy, having succeeded in passing in a few years to Obama, Trump and today again to Biden, Presidents who may or may not like, depending on the political tastes of those who sit here, but there has been alternation. Xi Jinping has no alternative, unless he is clearly locked up by the rest of the party in some field of re-education to be replaced with another oligarch or autocrat. As a result, our side is clear. I want to stress another aspect. There is talk of multilateralism and I too am a multilateralist, even if I do not like "isms." I'm a very moderate multilateralist. For me, NATO is the point of reference and, when we talk and insist on talking about the European Union in relation to the problems of immigration into the Mediterranean, it seems to me a bit like the fly against glass: I don't know if you have those flies running around, that want to go out, but they don't see the glass and keep banging on it. Here, let's try to avoid being flies crashing into the glass. I quote a remedy, which is not mine. The former commander of NATO's Allied Supreme Command in Europe, Admiral Stavridis, American of Greek origin, in his 2017 book, commenting on the situation of the Mediterranean in relation to immigration and, in particular, the European Union's inaction in the face of the problems of Italy and Greece, wondered why Italy did not resort to NATO. You think of Article 5 of the Treaty, which speaks of invasion and military aggression, but that is not the case and you are right. Stavridis spoke, in fact, of Article 4: when a country feels that a threat to its security is coming, it can ask for a NATO summit, not the European Union, and ask for help to remedy the threat. It is undeniable that mass immigration, as we saw it in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, was definitely an attack and a problem of stability for our country; I repeat, this is undeniable. I am going over the happy parenthesis with Mr Salvini, Minister of the Interior, who has succeeded in curbing the problem, while I am concerned about the return of this phenomenon today, with the absence of Europe which, when it speaks, does so to do harm and with the insistence, unfortunately, to ask Europe for something that it is not willing to give, it is clear. I apologise for the digression, and I shall end by repeating the vote in favour of the international missions, in accordance with the resolutions tabled to us by the rapporteurs. I confirm that a pragmatic approach is necessary, not forgetting our ideas and ideals, but trying to understand what world we are in. If, in fact, we withdraw from Afghanistan and the Taliban prevail, it is probably necessary that the Taliban become a problem for someone else. As I commented on the withdrawal from Afghanistan, after the hearing of Minister Guerini, I stress that today it is China and Russia that have a problem of stability at their borders, where the Taliban should gain more strength in Afghanistan. We have another problem, which is the containment of Chinese power and arrogance, from the southern Chinese Sea to the Mediterranean coast. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u148	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, in announcing the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour, I begin by thanking the rapporteurs, Senators Vattuone and Bishops, and I also address myself to the benches of the Government by extending my thanks to the Undersecretary Della Vedova, who followed the work of the Commissions both in the Chamber and in the Senate. I would like to send a message, which I have already had the opportunity to reiterate during the work of the Commissions, when President Pinotti presided, that is, the invitation to turn the occasion of the debate into a serious reflection on the guidelines of foreign policy of our country, of which international missions are perhaps the most powerful instrument in terms of hard power, but also of soft power for the component of development cooperation. I say this because we must all make a commitment to discuss international missions in advance. From this point of view, perhaps it would also be necessary to reflect on that law, on how it is built, on the times and also on how to really transform the opportunity of the debate on international missions into a great debate on foreign policy choices, our strategic interests, the objectives that we set ourselves. I say this because when it comes to international missions we must always have as a reference that we have important challenges to face: first of all, burden sharing and international security. It applies to international terrorism as well as to the great challenges ahead. I am referring to the management of complex challenges such as those of the most complicated effects of globalisation, as can be the management of migratory flows; refugees growing in the main areas of tension in the country. It is true for the protection of our country's strategic interests: in this sense the strengthening of the missions both in the Gulf of Guinea and in the Strait of Hormuz, which is added to the Atalanta mission in the Strait of Bab el-Mandeb. It is true for the great challenge that other countries do not have outside the Western world and that we have: that of being also a beacon for liberal democracies, that is, the protection of human rights and the ambition to increase the standards of democracy in other countries. Let's go teach the construction of institutions when we go abroad. These are the great missions that we assign to the women and men of the Italian Armed Forces, whom I want to thank here on behalf of the Democratic Party, together with the Minister of Defence Guerini for the work he is doing. [[Applause]] From this point of view, I want to mark the element of strong discontinuity that has occurred in recent months with the victory in the United States by President Biden, who brought the issue of multilateralism back to the centre of the international community's debate. The international missions work if the multilateral sites work, and the message that started from the G7, which recently ended in Wales, was very strong at the time when Biden made the proposal, immediately shared by the European partners, of the build back better world. It is a very strong project in which it says that we must not leave to China and other countries the ambition to be a reference point at international level. We must return to being protagonists in the different continents, in Asia, in Africa, but not only by putting the money in place to build infrastructure, not only by sending our men and women on international missions, but by bearing the weight of our history and culture, thus protecting human rights and high standards of democracy. [[Applause]] This is the difference compared to other countries, and this also applies to the work that we must do with regard to international missions. We must also reflect on the mistakes that have been made, because the Trump administration has represented a regression in the ability to be present in some international theatres. The story of Afghanistan is before everyone's eyes. I agree with the words of President Casini: we have missed an opportunity. We have made progress in terms of the protection of human rights and women's rights. We had proposed, on the initiative of President Pinotti, a discussion and discussion on these issues. I would like to thank the Ministry of Defence, Minister Guerini in particular, for their attention to the community of people who have collaborated with us in Afghanistan. We take them back and protect them, because we have a responsibility not to leave them alone in that place, exposed to the Taliban's vengeance. From this point of view, we see the difference between a great country like Italy, which takes care of the protection of the safety of the people who worked with us, and another country. This also applies in Iraq, where we are moving our commitment from the international coalition against Daesh, fortunately under control, to a greater commitment within NATO structures, precisely to increase the awareness, capacity and skills of the Iraqi security forces. We have a leading role within the NATO mission, which places us at the heart of the Atlantic Alliance's ability to play a leading role in that area. It is clear that this statement by Italy must have a counterweight and we can only ask the United States, within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance, for a strengthening of the strategy for the South of the Mediterranean, where there is a need to protect the majority of our strategic interests: it applies to the Eastern Mediterranean and applies to Lebanon, which has been experiencing an unprecedented crisis for a year. Last year's explosion, just these days, has caused more material damage to the local population than the previous fifteen years of civil war, together with an economic crisis and an inability of the Lebanese institutions and political class to give a stable government. Italy has been leading the UNIFIL operation for years and is perhaps the only interlocutor also for the political and social forces of that territory and we must be proud of the leadership of the Italian command. Then there is the theme, more generally, of the central Mediterranean. I would also like to say this to those who have legitimately expressed concerns about the situation in Libya: the Democratic Party is involved in the front row, because it knows the situation on the ground, knows the dramatic situation of the detention camps where the most basic human rights are trampled on, and is committed to ensuring the increase of humanitarian corridors, the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Libyans. But at the same time it has the awareness and certainty that leaving Libya to its own destiny would condemn those people to a safe destiny, in a manner similar to what is happening in Afghanistan. [[Applause]] We can't afford Somalia on the doorstep. Then we have to face those contradictions, get our hands dirty. This is what politics does: addressing nodes, trying to resolve issues concerning detention camps, helping political dialogue. How can we help political dialogue, to ensure that this weak transitional government arrives at the end and elections on December 24? Do we withdraw, or do we do it by standing in those contradictions, facing them, certainly attracting even some criticism? Let us try to do this and do it gradually. We have convinced the other European countries with us to finally invest in Operation Irini, to give him the powers and powers, and to ensure that from next year they will be able to make them directly the formation and training of the Libyan Coast Guard, so that there is not only Italy, that being a few kilometers from the coasts can suffer the influence of that Government. But Italy is not alone, because it will be together with the other European countries, it will be together with the High Representative in being able to protect human rights and demand an increase in standards. The same can be done on Libyan territory. We have a great ambition: to give Europe - that is to be the end of my speech - a mission that is really to build the common foreign and security policy, because we cannot rely solely on the United States. (at 19.10 a.m.) (Followed by Mr Alfieri). The United States is telling us this very clearly. They're very pragmatic. They are at our side if we too lean our hands, if we prove to be responsible for a piece of global security. We can't do it individually. We saw him in Libya. If you go to Libya for your part - Italy, France, Germany - we do not get results. We, in fact, have written in our Constitution that we do not go to war and send soldiers, against each other armed, into civil wars. This is a very important issue, because we are respectful of what is written in our Constitution, but we are not looking at it. So what is at stake here is to be a protagonist like Europe, and this can only be done if we invest in a truly Community foreign policy, in a truly Community defence policy. The Conference of Europe will be an opportunity in this respect. A united Europe can count as much as Turkey, Russia and other players playing an important role in Libya. We have invested in professionalism, in people, in cultural ties in Libya: let us not miss this opportunity. Those who run away from the difficult and complicated theatres and do not face the contradictions of those territories have only to lose and risk leaving those people alone. Between voleitarianism and the Cynic Realpolitik we ask to be present in that territory with the protection of human rights, with the sharing of responsibility and with the seriousness of the commitment of our women and men of the Armed Forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u151	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I say to Senator Alfieri that my speech is not the intervention of the beautiful souls, but it also places and has placed in the debate in the Commission a number of issues which, in my opinion, are absolutely fundamental, precisely in the name of that Constitution, which we recall and which I have heard also in the previous speeches. We are all absolutely convinced that our country must help the transition in Libya and that it must help, with the new transitional executive, a stabilisation: not only because this is the interest of our country, but because this is the only way to have a true influence within the scenario in Libya. In order to facilitate and support a transition to a more democratic situation, even more so, our country, in the name of those values of the Constitution, must make precise choices. I will return to the issues that concern the whole Mediterranean scenario, because I share a lot of concerns that have been raised before. I think, however, that we can no longer continue to finance and support operations by the Libyan institutions: they are called so euphemistically, because they are actually the Coast Guard. We can no longer continue to support, as has been the case in recent years, operations which are not rescue operations, but also a series of systematic violations of international conventions. We are talking, among other things, regularly about collective rejections and you know perfectly well that these are also prohibited by international conventions. The bodies have decreed, in a very clear way, among other things, that Libya is certainly not a safe port. So the role that the Coast Guard plays (and that we, in fact, finance) is evidently to continue to bring these people back regularly into detention centers. It is a vicious circle, which we finance, because we finance detention centres, health care and medical care. But we have never asked for an account of how in reality these resources, our money, the money of Italian taxpayers are spent. We know with certainty, however, from the reports of Amnesty International and Doctors without frontiers (also this organization has abandoned), that they are used for a different purpose, so much so that the health situation, the violations of human rights, the violence and torture that take place in these detention centers is now acclaimed. It is not that we can pretend not to see; we can no longer pretend not to see. The financing comes to the paradox that the motorboat we gave to the Libyans is the one that shot; but all to raise the shields against the Italian fishing boats. That's the situation. In the gang-and-tribal conflict that broke out between the militias after the fall of Gaddafi all this has happened; the relations between crime and gangs have been intertwined and those who are currently part of the coastguard are actually closely linked to traffickers, if not themselves traffickers of human beings. That's the point. This is not about us being the beautiful souls and the others who want to get their hands dirty, because they have to help people anyway; here it is about taking decisions and then suspending that mission, otherwise we risk constantly, every day, being complicit in a systematic violation of human rights. That's the point. And it is not that maintaining the mission as it is we do well, in the sense that we are able to help the democratic transition and stabilisation in Libya; exactly the opposite is true. Let me add another thing: the memorandum has never arrived in this House. I would like to remind you that it is a de facto treaty that has never been ratified by Parliament. I would like to remind you that two years ago, Minister Lamorgese had committed herself, also in the Joint Italian-Libyan Commission, not only to monitor and review the mission, but also to have very careful eyes on the so-called reception and detention centres. Each year the same promise is repeated; this year the promise is that we will involve Europe this time. But it does not change; it is not that, if it is not only Italy, but Europe will continue to pretend not to see, things change. I think we can't afford this anymore. That is why we are asking - we have already asked for it, Mrs Bonino has asked for it and other Members have asked for it - to vote separately on Card No 48. I'll tell the president, he's very careful. On this, clearly, all Senators of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal will vote against, for the reasons I have explained so far. But we could get even more into the details, because we've seen documents, reports and video images of what's going on. And I think a country like ours can't do this. Mr Verducci said that Italy must go back there to Italy; and doing Italy means being the bearers of our values, of the defence of human rights and not saying generically that we will worry and that we will see what happens in detention centers. This story has been repeated continuously at every renewal of the mission and I believe that this is the true way to be a great country. I'll say one more thing. Some have complained that this debate has taken place in this House, while others have fortunately seen this fact well (and I thank Senator Casini for allowing it). We need not only to discuss all the missions, but to understand the story of Afghanistan and all the other issues. There is the concern of the Mediterranean: wherever we look in the Mediterranean (do we want to make the list of countries?) there is a very complicated situation it is difficult. He called it the backyard and it is indeed the area in which we should exercise our greatest capacity and put in place an intelligent policy, which is fundamental to us. Instead, what have we done? Here I also go back to Libya: the truth is that in the end we and Europe have been content to have been able to externalize border control and immigration, wrong everything, because then nothing is controlled - these are the mistakes - without the ability to express leadership over what is happening in all these countries. These are very worrying situations, which risk giving us a scenario that is certainly no longer manageable, beyond the conflict, beyond what is happening and who is trying to play their role. I would really like to have a full debate on Afghanistan on the choices we made 20 years ago and reflect, once and for all, on what it means to think about exporting democracy. This is the result! That was, in the end, a failed operation and the results will be tremendous for the population. Therefore, for all these reasons, as I have already said, we shall vote against Card No 48 and in favour of the other missions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u154	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I do indeed understand the concerns expressed by some of my colleagues and particularly those who have spoken, such as Senators Verducci, Bonino, De Falco, Garavini and De Petris, as I also know the concerns of other Members, who have not had the opportunity to speak. Frankly, however, I come only to understand them, but I do not share their concerns and I will try to argue that I do not share, together with the vote in favour, which I already announce, the two resolutions by the Movimento 5 Stars, starting from a consideration that I believe is shared by everyone in this House, namely that in foreign policy the concept of vacuum does not exist. The concept of void, in this sense, is understood as the absence of important actors in international scenarios, because any absence, especially of an important actor, is immediately filled with the presence of an actor, perhaps of a second floor. In what we have said in today's long and articulated debate, this example has already been reported about the lack of an important actor, such as the United States of America, during the Trump Presidency (and hopefully not even during the Biden Presidency) in the Middle East scenario and the enlarged Mediterranean scenario. These are two fundamental contexts for Italy, which, together with our allies, we consider central to our national security. The lack of a strong presence has led to the situation we have seen in the last eight or ten years, which has been described by many colleagues, including the last speaker, Senator De Petris. International missions are, for Italy, the main instrument of the explicitation of international politics, understood precisely with the characteristics that our Country has always maintained within the international scenarios. I mention first of all, among these characteristics, precisely that of doing everything so that no gaps are left in the proximity scenarios and, above all, in the scenarios relevant to international security. The second characteristic of Italian international politics is to be able to operate, especially in the context of crises, with the characteristics of our own and particular foreign policy tradition. There are a number of international missions that we have dealt with, but I will refer only to a few examples. The first example is the one mentioned by many colleagues, namely the renewal of the Libyan Coast Guard assistance mission by our country. Many have spoken on this and I would like to take up in part the words of Senator Rauti, who said at some point that in Libya they do not want us and perhaps prefer others and it would be worrying if this preference were mainly for the Turks. Well, Senator, that we do not want to be in Libya - in my opinion - clashes with some facts: Minister Di Maio has been there five times in the last months; then there has been the President of the Council Draghi; then there have been the ministers Lamorgese and Guerini and, therefore, it does not seem to me that they do not want us. If the anxiety of Brothers of Italy is to oppose at all costs, let them do so, but I do not think this is the case. [[Applause]] The role of Italian foreign policy is what I remember and which I like to reiterate once again, namely to be as particular actors as we are in Lebanon. As has been repeated several times, in Lebanon the Italian contingent is esteemed by all, it speaks with Christians, with the Maronite Christians, with the Druze and with the Islamic; it comes to speak with Hezbollah, considered a terrorist formation. But if there were no Italian contingent, let's imagine for a moment what would happen in that theater. The same would happen if Italy abandoned the mission in support of the Libyan Coast Guard: someone else would fill that gap. I do not deny that there are factions in Libya that govern pieces of the security apparatus or military forces, but what is impossible to achieve today in the context we are experiencing is abandoning Libya to its own destiny. And that is precisely what our government representatives are not doing, using all the means at their disposal, first of all the policy of vaccines. Giving not only Libya but also Tunisia the chance to have vaccination doses that come as a gift from Italy is definitely a point in support of our presence in Libya. Moreover, we have seen it: if there were no such policy, the vacuum would be filled by others, just as Turkey did during the sad and dark months of the conflict between the two factions of Tobruk and Tripoli. Above all, I think it is useful and important to participate in the mission in the Strait of Hormuz, for the same logic with which in the years 1987-1988, in full conflict between Iran and Iraq, the foreign minister of that time, Giulio Andreotti, met the foreign minister of the Iranian Islamic Republic Ali Velayati over and over again in Fiumicino. I remember it, it was written by the Italian newspapers, but I was reminded by Velayati himself, whom I met in April 2019, during an official mission authorized by President Casellati in Iran, to testify to that particular way of making Italian foreign policy. And this particular way is to be present without prejudice in all scenarios and did Giulio Andreotti as Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting Velayati in Fiumicino. Velayati lost five hours before traveling to New York to the United Nations Assembly to exchange impressions with Andreotti - this is what Velayati told me - that Italy could only have had from a direct confrontation and receive impressions from the Italian Foreign Minister that that part of the world could not receive directly. Then of course Andreotti referred to the Western allies, as it is right and proper. However, contrary to what some Members in this House have said several times, there was absolutely no closure to the dialogue with a country that was already considered dangerous to international stability, so much so that in those months the United States bombed oil platforms right off the Strait of Hormuz and at the same time our country was talking with the political representatives of the Islamic Republic of Iran. This is the Italian way of making foreign policy and we must reiterate it once again, because I believe that today our country must be firmly anchored in the economic and military alliances, firmly part of the process of reunification (in the true sense) of the European Union, but it must not lose those characteristics that have made it a medium power that has been able to dialogue over time even with those who were not close to their national interests. I believe that at this moment, reaffirming the support of the Movimento 5 Stars for the two motions for resolutions, the long and healthy tradition of Italian foreign policy must be emphasized above all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u155	Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind you that the agenda will be put to the vote after the Commission's resolutions of 3rd and 4th. I would also remind you that Senators Bonino and De Petris have asked for a split vote, pursuant to Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, on Card No 48 relating to Document XXIV, n. 48. Then there is a request from Senator De Falco that we should vote separately on Nos. That would be precluded if Senator Bonino's request were approved. Is anyone against it? Senator De Falco, is that against?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u156	Mr President, of course I am not opposed to the principle of separate voting, having asked for it myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u157	However, it is legitimately opposed. Senator Rauti, there's a senator against this, so we have to put the request to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, without registration of the names, of the proposal to vote separately on Card No 48, tabled by Senators Bonino and De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. If Senators De Petris and Bonino agree, I would vote for the whole of Document XXIV, No 48, except for Sheet 48, and then we will vote apart from Sheet 48. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 48, with the exception of sheet 48. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on Card No 48. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G2 agenda is therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 49. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u158	Senator Ciriani and Senator Bruzzone, I refer to the request for the reopening of the deadlines for tabling amendments and agendas. I do not think these are amendments in this case. While, in relation to the agenda, I recall Rule 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which reads: The agendas shall as a rule be submitted before the start of the general discussion and may be carried out by the proposer only during the general discussion. Therefore, from now until then you are in time to table an agenda, although I believe that the Commission is also looking for a way out of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u161	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I rise to inform this House that Ugo de Carolis, a newly appointed member of the State Railways Board this morning, thanks to all the parliamentary forces who have intervened in dissent from a completely wrong appointment of a person close to the Benetton and Castellucci family, who led to the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, withdrew his candidacy and resigned in fact. [[Applause]] The debate is reopened and I would like to thank everyone for the fact that today Parliament has been completely close to Genoa and to all the families of those who died in the disaster of the Morandi Bridge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u162	Senator Toninelli, thank you for the information. Indeed, it is usually said that agendas produce little, whereas this time the threat of the agenda has produced so much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u165	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sudden and abnormal climate change is bringing agricultural crops to their knees in many parts of our country. Our territory is marked by continuous, heavy and violent hailstorms, torrential rains and strong wind that so far have smoked thousands of hectares of crops and decimated - in some cases halved - agricultural production. The estimated damage in the province of Cuneo alone amounts to over 19 million euros, between productions and structures, for a total of 6,000 hectares of hard-hit crops. The costs are mainly corn, cereals, fruit, vegetables and vine. The report of the damage of hail has involved many areas - from Saluzzo, Monregalese, Fossanese - and in entire territories, as in the municipalities of Vottignasco, Levaldigi and Villafalletto, have been necessary tractors with shovels to clean the roads from hail. An important part of the capital city has also been hit. What is most astonishing about these atmospheric phenomena is how they hit leopard stain: it can happen so that a field carries damage of 10 percent and in the next one, a few kilometers away, even exceed 50 percent. It is a summer, the Italian one, marked up to now on a national level by 789 extreme events, including water bombs, air trumpets, hailstorms, violent storms along the whole peninsula. The hailstorms have practically tripled, with eleven ice storms a day since the beginning of summer compared to the same period last year. This situation can no longer be treated as a simple emergency, since it is engaged in events that are now continuous of real rapid and violent water bombs. To deal with the damage caused by extreme events, we need increasingly advanced risk management tools, which are easy to access for our agricultural businesses, effective and with less bureaucracy, which provide immediate compensation according to certain deadlines to help our farmers recover. We appeal to the Government to intervene immediately by activating the National Solidarity Fund and making the resources available to the Region. A proposal from our Group could be the targeted refinancing of the Ismea agricultural bill institution only for those who have suffered damage up to 50,000, at zero rate for seven years, with two years of pre-mortization. This could be an immediate tool, already known and easily accessible. We give immediate answers, because our farmers can no longer wait. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u168	CASTIELLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the subject of my very brief speech concerns the very critical conditions of health care in the vast area of the Gulf of Policastro, south of Salerno. The hospital of Sapri, incardinated in ASL Salerno 1, serves this vast territory by providing health care to the many countries overlooking the gulf itself. In this period, about a million tourists are present on the Cilento coast. These remarkable presences of tourists clearly lead to an exponential increase in demand for health services and services. However, the regional authorities which should take care of this - as is well known, Article 117 of the Constitution entrusts the Region with competence in the matter of health organization - are evidently taken from all other thoughts. We read in today's press that Governor De Luca is all caught up in an electoral law. [[Applause]] that should virtually assure him of the rulership for life: we speak of the third and also of the fourth term of office. Then it happens that the hospital in Sapri is collapsed. It is thought that the statutory staff of cardiologists, of about ten units, is in fact reduced to four health workers only, who are currently conducting hourly shifts of twelve to thirteen hours a day. The hospital is collapsing. The same applies to surgery, orthopedics and first aid, which are the hottest sectors in the summer due to accidents, trauma and so on. This very serious situation is not of today, but it has become structural and chronic, and nothing has ever been done to solve the fearful voids of organic. It may be said, but if the health organization belongs to the Region, in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution, how is it that, rather than devolve it, we talk about it in the Senate Chamber? [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I come quickly to the conclusions, Mr President, just one minute. In addition to Article 117 of the Constitution and before it, there is Article 32, which defines the right to health as a fundamental right of the person and the primary interest of the community and entrusts its protection - attention - to the Republic for which, by constant jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, it means the legal state, all the powers of the State. So it is not inappropriate for us to talk about this here. [[Applause]] I should like to conclude, Mr President, by expressing my solidarity with the Municipality of Sapri, with the doctors and nurses who are sacrificing themselves to death and with the Permanent Fighting Committee, which is a direct expression of those communities, so that their struggle can achieve the objective set out above, which is to awaken the regional health authorities from hibernation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u169	Thank you, Senator Castiello. He is right in pointing out that this is a fundamental right, because there is often improper talk of fundamental rights, while the only right that qualifies as fundamental, in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution, is that of health.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u172	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking for a few minutes, but it seems essential to me because there has been very little talk of this in this House frankly, while I would like to bring the Monte dei Paschi di Siena affair to the attention of the Senate Assembly. I will be brief, with a really flash history about a story that is causing great concern certainly in the city of Siena and Tuscany, but objectively also in Italy and on the international markets. In 2018 the Candidate Democratic Party in the College of Siena former Minister Padoan, who is elected deputy of the Republic. A few months later - because this is what it is - the former minister and then deputy and, shortly thereafter, former deputy of the Democratic Party resigns and becomes president of Unicredit. At the moment when this happens, we denounce the event, drawing attention to the fact that these lords would have wanted to take the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, already torn apart by all the events related to the experience of the Tuscan left and that of Siena. Well, then soon Unicredit is launched towards the bank, which in the meantime had obtained 5.4 billion from the state to not fail; a tax discount is required for the acquisition. In short, the goal is to take home with two change the first bank born in the world, a reference point for everyone, for Tuscany and for the city of Siena. Forza Italia was the first to denounce this issue, both at local and national level, and we want to reiterate it also in the Senate Chamber. We do not stop: we will not allow this looting, we will not allow once again to the Italian left, to the Democratic Party, to take home a bank, as Fassino told Consorte: But do we have a bank? Such stuff, this time, we will not allow it in the absolute way, in the interest of Italy, in the interest of Siena, Tuscany and a world that looks frankly overwhelmed by a fact that only, probably, in our country can happen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u175	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stigmatize yet another episode of violence and aggression - in this case, fortunately only verbal - suffered by medical and nursing staff in Naples, in the area of the Spanish Quarter; the subject of the verbal threats was the staff of 118, present in an ambulance engaged in the first aid. Well, two young men in the scooter joined the rescue vehicle, punching and kicking the vehicle, apostrophoning the operators on board it with verbal offenses, epithets and threats, with an aggressive and vulgar language. If you pass this way you have to close these lights: this is the imperious and threatening phase pronounced, as if to affirm their personal power to grant permission to cross that territory, as if it were their territory, probably because the flashing of the ambulance could be confused with those of the police. This is only the last episode in order of time, but it will certainly not remain so, of aggression suffered by doctors and medical staff of 118, but in general of the entire area of the emergency, including the hospital emergency and medical guards, which are repeatedly subject to aggressions and subjected to enormous psychophysical stress, even more in this period of pandemic emergency. This situation is also linked to a bad organization, particularly felt in some territories of the area of the territorial emergency, which needs a complete and careful reorganization. My colleague, Senator Castellone, has presented a draft law on this subject which, with the contribution of the entire Health Commission, although in the different sensitivities and political positions present, will necessarily lead to a reform of 118 and more generally of the emergency-emergency network, which is no longer procrastinable. It is not enough simply to call doctors and health workers who work with commitment and self-denial every day in words "heroes," responding to the demand for emergency health, but it is essential to recognize its fundamental and indispensable role in our emergency and health care system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u178	CORRADO (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the film 'Totòtruffa '62', known to all, the knight Antonio Trevi, alleged descendant of the owners of the homonymous fountain, has a very funny negotiation with the American Oriundo Decio Cavallo for the purchase of the Bernini fountain. The agreed price is 10 million, but the deposit that Decio Cavallo will pay, thanks also to the intervention of the knight Scamorza, Nino Taranto, presumed competitor in the sale, amounts to 500.000 lire, figure at the time considerable. This is how poor Decio Cavallo not only loses half a million, but will be forcibly carried away by health care workers who believe him crazy, because he proclaims himself owner of the Trevi Fountain. The entire film, articulated in several episodes, is a hymn to the Italian art of arranging, put in place by the clever at the expense of the naive, deliberately exasperated until the paradox. This scam in particular, however, has remained famous also because it involves one of the monuments symbol of Rome; indeed, if we exclude the Basilica of St. Peter, perhaps the monument par excellence after the Colosseum. Sixty years ago Castellano and Pipolo, the authors of the subject, did not dare to imagine that Totò and Nino Taranto could even sell the Colosseum; but, if they had been able to attend, on August 28, the scenery set up for the G20 Culture in the arena of the Flavian Amphitheatre, they would have bowed before a screenwriter and director, the honorable minister Franceschini, who, thanks to a natural talent for the comedian, indeed for the farseque, dared the unthinkable: to perform and sell the Colosseum to the great unexpected winds of the earth. Afterwards they did not take them away for the TSO, so they probably still ignore being the Decius Horse on duty, the subject of a resounding scam, ordered precisely by the Minister of Culture, who made himself known as the owner of the monument, also thanks to the comic shoulder offered to him by the President of the Council. In the Constitution, cultural heritage belongs to the people as sovereignty, certainly not to the political summit as a means of personal promotion, nor to the public administration, which, however, has it on behalf of the citizens in order to fulfil the priority constitutional mandate to protect and preserve it; What archaeologists should do, the useless experts Draghi has disavowed in the ignoble final curtain with Franceschini. It protects and preserves a monument, not to show it as a background in the official photos or to make it a money machine to give to speculators, but because it must be known and understood by all; because it belongs to history and therefore has the task of warning (monument is worth warning); because it must promote the moral and spiritual development of individuals so that they are more aware and active also as citizens. It is no small matter what happened on 28 July and the resignation of the two dishonestries would have been requested by all political forces in a healthy country. I would add, Mr President, that since this morning, the Colosseum Park has been advertising the entrance fee for citizens who own the monumental area who want to practice physical activity within the confines of the institute at dawn. We're at state prostitution. The Romans will pay for access to a space that is already theirs, which is maintained also with their taxes and that already pay, like the other visitors, to enter the amphitheatre: 12 euros basic plus 2 booking mandatory plus 4 exhibition mandatory. Soon they'll pay, we'll pay, so we can stare at him without looking away. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u181	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for allowing me to speak. In fact, I am speaking for an important fact that concerns one of our compatriots, a diplomat, a Friulan, a man from my land, who has been at the UN for over twenty years. Ambassador, UN Deputy Secretary General, has contributed to the liberation of several hostages and has been called an unarmed soldier of democracy in the world. Today Giandomenico Picco, Friulano, son of a pharmacist and a housewife, is located in the United States, suffering from a severe form of Alzheimer's. We believe, on the basis of information from friends, that he does not have sufficient care. We believe that our country must intervene. In this sense the Friulian community has moved. The President of the Regional Council has moved and various personalities have moved. We want to take him back to Friuli, where we will provide him with the necessary care. We believe that he deserves that recognition called the Bacchelli law, which is granted to illustrious Italian citizens. Giandomenico Picco is an illustrious Italian, unfortunately today infirm and trapped in his situation. I trust in the sensitivity of the Government and in the sensitivity of Parliament to find the forms, means and means necessary to ensure that Giandomenico returns home decent and dignified. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u182	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-355.ana.u183	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, August 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
