ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 6 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u3	I communicate that on 7 May 2021 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finances (Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 59 of 6 May 2021) introducing urgent measures relating to the Fund supplementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and other urgent measures for investments (2207).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. He asked President Parrini to speak in order to report on the work of the first permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u5	Mr President, I must inform the House that we are not yet able to come to this House to discuss the measure. To finish the exam we need more hours. I would therefore ask for time until 4 p.m. this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u6	Senator, is your proposal that the sitting be suspended and work resumed at 4 p.m.? Mr Parrini (PD). That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u9	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, in relation to the proposal put forward, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy, I must express all the opposition of our Group to the way in which we proceed in the work of the Commission and consequently also in this House. This is the second time in two weeks that an unacceptable delay has occurred in our work, clearly due to the internal divisions of this majority which have come together on assumptions that are failing one after the other. It is unacceptable that a majority with more than 90% of the members of this House should not be able to dismiss an important text such as the one we are waiting for. Therefore, President, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, I announce a very hard position on this way of proceeding and I do not exclude that we can also get to the occupation of the benches of the Government, if Government and majority will continue to hold an attitude that humiliates democracy and the Assembly itself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u10	Senator Balboni, do I have to interpret your speech as contrary to the suspension proposal? Balboni (FdI). That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u13	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, on behalf of Mr L'Alternativa too, I am opposed to the request for suspension. It is not possible that, at a time like this, the majority will delay Parliament's work and once again deny the possibility of a wide-ranging debate on such important matters. So, there is opposition for us too.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u14	I put to the vote the proposal to suspend work until 4 p.m., tabled by Senator Parrini. It's approved. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.13 a.m. and resumed at 16.02 p.m.) He asked the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on the progress of the Commission's work in connection with the examination of Decree-Law No 44. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u15	Mr President, our work has made progress. Unfortunately, however, we are not yet in a position to arrive in this House. I therefore call for a postponement of the arrival in the Chamber of the measure until tomorrow morning, with the certainty that we can conclude our work in the Commission this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u18	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, as you know, patience has a limit. What is perhaps not known is that the limit has been exceeded widely and patience is over. Even if we are a patriotic and responsible opposition, let the House know that patience is over. If it's over here, you have to imagine how far it's gone. I want to bring it all back to reality. We were convened, after a Conference of the Leaders that approved a timetable of work unanimously last week, and we decided that this morning we would address and close the process related to the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 44 of 1 April 2021, which concerns millions of Italians, as it contains the containment measures that for over a year the Italians, with very prompt patience - that which, indeed, is over - are respecting and also suffering. You postponed work this morning at 4:00 p.m. This means that, apart from the committees already convened, this branch of Parliament has not worked this morning. I think of all those Italians who went to work regularly this morning and wonder why we don't work here. I say you don't let us work, which is another thing. [[Applause]] If we are then referred to as those who are wasting time in this House, it is because we are giving arguments. We are serious people who want to work, who came to this House this morning and waited until 4 p.m. to do so. We are not here to warm up the benches to hear us say, at 4 p.m., what we already knew, namely that the majority is not ready. There are three explanations. As for the first, there is a majority problem: you can't find a square and something physiological doesn't work, and I wouldn't be surprised. For the second explanation I use a joke: the decree-law was adopted on 1 April last and it was therefore a joke, an April fish. Then you could have told us before and we wouldn't have suffered so much from certain measures. Or - and I come back seriously - the issue is purely political. What the Brothers of Italy want to emphasize clearly is first of all that we come here to work and not to waste time and that those who waste our time must take responsibility for it. Secondly, on tomorrow's agenda there will be a unanimous debate on more motions. I therefore have a suspicion. I am not malicious, but malice makes me think that there is a political strategy behind the decision not to let us discuss the motions. I recall, in fact, that the motion tabled by Brothers of Italy is aimed at calling into question those hateful measures that for over a year have influenced the life of Italians: I refer, among others, to the curfew that we want to abolish and to the fact that the norm on the use of masks in the open air and the respect of the distance of one meter is not clear. Thirdly, there is still an obligation for two people to visit relatives a day. This is contained in the document that you do not have fired. We must then postpone the discussion of the motions and wait on Monday 17 May to know what death we must die of; or we can discuss the motions that we have scheduled and give the Italians a Saturday and a Sunday without curfew, closures and restrictions... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, please give me the floor as a member of the opposition. I'll finish right away.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u19	Senator Rauti, the word is returned to you immediately, but I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u20	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I shall conclude because I respect you and the House. You respect me. Let it be clear that, beyond the games on the decree that you are unable to bring to the House's attention, the motions must be discussed tomorrow as provided for in the schedule of proceedings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u21	In my capacity as President, of course, I do not go into the substance of the political perspectives, but I have a duty to say that today the Commissions have met and worked and only the sitting of this House has postponed hours. Since an appeal has been made to the Italians, I feel it is my duty to make it clear to the citizens and to this House that the Commissions have worked. In any case, even informal meetings must not be degraded, because we are all here, equally committed, with various proposals, out of respect for the institutions. Secondly, with regard to the timetable and the agenda, I would like to announce what I would have said later, namely that at 6.30 p.m. the Conference of the Leaders is convened, which I imagine will of course be responsible for following up the agenda as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u24	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would simply like to refer to the fact that it may happen that the drafting of a decree-law, which contains articles which are also very sensitive and sensitive, may take a little longer. As you said - and you did very well to remember this - the Commissions have actually worked and there have been meetings, in the majority and with all political forces, to try to dissolve some important nodes. I therefore sincerely appeal to all political forces, including the majority, because then the Conference of the Leaders will surely be held, since there are two important deadlines: the first is on 15 May and concerns the Universiadis of Turin; the other is on 17 May and concerns the Cabin of Director. Often and willingly, Parliament feels sorry, because it says that the government decides and we parliamentarians are unable to express our direction. However, in the face of two such important issues, such as reopenings and universes, Parliament has the opportunity to express its direction and must therefore be placed in a position to do so. So the position we're going to hold is to face the motions tomorrow, while the decree-law can also examine it on Monday. I do not think it is a big problem: so, at least, there is all the time to go further into the matter and get to the solution, while tomorrow we will have time to develop guidelines, which - I repeat - are the prerogatives of the Parliament of the Republic. We always complain about the fact that we don't count anything and that in the decisions we are not there; but if then, when there is the possibility to decide, let's run away, then who is the cause of his ill crying himself. [[Applause]] So this will be our position at the Conference of the Leaders and I am convinced that the majority has a duty to find, with responsibility and in a mature and non-childish way, mediation on the subject of reopenings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u25	Senator Romeo, of course, we appreciate the anticipation of what will be discussed at the Conference of the Leaders, but in that meeting we will have the opportunity to deepen all the topics, otherwise the procedure is renewed, making a Assembly Leader, which can also be an interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u28	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I appeal to Rule 157 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which provides that, when the proposers of a motion request the date of discussion of the motion, this is to be established by the Senate Assembly. In particular, Rule 55 (7) states that the Assembly may, at the end of each sitting, decide, on a proposal from the President or at the request of eight senators, in relation to situations which have arisen and are urgent. In this regard, I have here a motion on the issue of the Libyan Coast Guard, which, six days ago, shot our fishermen. I therefore ask the Senate to speak now, at the end of the sitting, in order to schedule a motion, signed by fourteen senators, on the day of tomorrow or on the day on which the other motions will be discussed, so that we can immediately address the very serious problem of the Libyan Coast Guard, which we finance, but which many human rights defenders tell us to do as jailers. So we finance migrant jailers and, at the same time, with those same ships that we supply them, they shoot at our fishermen in international waters. I therefore call for the urgent timing of this motion, through the vote of the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u29	Senator Fattori, since the Conference of the Leaders is convened and the session of the Assembly will resume at the outcome of the Conference, presumably at 7.30 p.m., I would say that the best thing is that your proposal is being examined by the Conference of Leaders. If you do not find a solution, or in any case in the context of what will be decided, you can always ask for it to be voted on, possibly at the outcome of the Conference of the Leaders, but at the moment we do not know how we will proceed with the reorganization of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u32	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Madam President, as you know, we are not represented at the Conference of the Leaders, so I would also like to highlight the point of view on the order of the work of the constituent component The Alternative There is. I agree with what the parent Romeo said about the detention today in this House (and not the Commissions, as you have rightly pointed out), which could not discuss important issues. I hope that this stop, obviously due to the lack of agreement in the majority, will not reduce the time for discussion on fundamental issues, in particular on the issue of reopenings and the re-expansion of the rights and civil liberties of the Italians, and that therefore a debate will be scheduled. That's because we're already late. The contagion, in fact, has already subsided, because, as it was widely predictable, in front of the summer period, the summer season, the spring, the contagion is reduced, as it happened last year and as happens for all the respiratory viruses. Nevertheless, we still have a curfew at 10 p.m. and this Senate cannot freely discuss fundamental issues. I therefore call for a debate to be scheduled so that the government can be given clear guidelines to reaffirm the freedoms of all citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u35	FACTORS (Mixed). Madam President, I always speak on the order of business. I do not ask for the timetable to be changed, because our component is not present at the Conference of Leaders, even though we have asked several times for the formation of the component. I appeal to the Rules of Procedure to vote now on the timing of the motion, referring to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, and not to the remodulation of the timetable. I ask now, while the timetable for work will be decided at the Conference of the Leaders, where we are not present. I would therefore ask you to respect this article at the time when the request is made.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u36	Senator Fattori, I would ask you for the text of the motion with the proposers. Secondly, we now suspend our work, we are entering the Conference of Leaders, so you are in danger of having a proposal that is not really feasible if you want to discuss it in minutes. In essence, it risks the House not being able to decide. It remains to be understood whether you want to put such a proposal to the vote, either to put it to the vote, or whether you would like it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u39	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, of course, I find it quite embarrassing to have to suspend a debate that has an impact on a current issue such as vaccines and their compulsory nature in relation to medical and health staff, and I was hoping that we could have a debate. All this happens while today the main newspapers and information sites are revealing something that already snakes in the country and that may also be a fear, that is, that of appearing subjects of an experimentation. I would have liked to have referred to this in the course of the discussion of the decree-law, because it is important. We cannot have a situation in which the vaccine producers (Pfizer, in this case) say that the call should be made at twenty-one days and that the European medicines agency (EMA), with the technical-scientific committee (CTS) and Son say to go on as if nothing had happened. At this point I cannot understand the circumstances and the basis of the decision of the 40-day appeal. This is the main theme that also poses the scientific communities that question the vaccine itself. My speech is on the order of business because it is on the topicality of the decree, which I do not know why it is bounced off. Maybe because they're recomposing issues within the majority. I find it embarrassing and I hoped that we could already enter into the substance of the discussion of a decree-law that is already affecting people's lives. Today, as we postpone, perhaps some doctors or nurses are called by the ASL because it has brought to the attention a topic that - I repeat - is very topical. I do not understand why the debate should continue to be postponed. Evidently, the removal within the majority is such that the country goes on one side and this Assembly, through the Commissions, goes on the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u40	Senator Paragon, to be precise, we are not discussing a postponement, but the completion of the work, which is still under way in the Commission. Senator Fattori, we had a few minutes to verify and better understand the terms of your request. It is correct what you have also asked for under Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, we are responding to what Senator Fattori complains. You may well ask for timetables in this House at the same time, but it must be a qualified act as such, in the sense that it must be presented to Parliament: it must be preceded by a publication and, therefore, by a knowledge of it. Contextuality does not come to the point that you can bring him directly to the Chamber without the acquisition and publication. That is why I suggested that you wait for the Conference of Leaders. I cannot therefore put your request to the vote because I cannot be informed of this act. I hope I've explained myself. You are right to refer to the article you have indicated, but there is no basis. I understand that this is a subject that you rightly hold. You will certainly have the opportunity to present it in such a way that it can at least be taken into account. If, as I believe, the speeches on the order of business have ended, as announced, I suspend the sitting, which will presumably resume around 7.30 p.m. because at 6.30 p.m. the Conference of the Leaders is convened. (The sitting was suspended at 16.24 a.m. and resumed at 19.04 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u41	The Conference of the Leaders has established that in the session tomorrow will be discussed the decree-law on the containment of the Covid-19 epidemic, vaccinations, justice and public competitions, as well as the motions on restrictions related to the emergency Covid-19 and on the candidacy of Turin to the Universiadis of 2025. In order to conclude the examination of these measures on the day of tomorrow, the time allocated on May 6 for the general discussion of the decree-law was reduced. It was also agreed that the discussion of the motions on Turin's candidacy for the Universities of 2025 should be limited to explanations of vote only for five minutes. The question time, already scheduled for 3 p.m. tomorrow, will not take place. The Conference of Leaders is convened tomorrow, at 12.30 p.m., during the suspension of the sitting for the sanitization of the Chamber, to establish the timetable for the next few weeks. I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the formation session of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on activities related to family communities that receive minors, already scheduled for tomorrow at 9 a.m., is postponed to another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u42	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Thursday, May 13 h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 2167 - Decree-Law n. 44 Containment of the Covid-19 epidemic, vaccinations, justice and public competitions (expands on May 31) - Motions on restrictions related to the emergency Covid-19 - Motions on the candidacy of Turin to host the Winter Universiade of 2025]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2167 (Decree-Law No 44, Covid-19 epidemic, vaccinations, justice and public competitions) (2 hours and 45 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 1 hour and 45 minutes, of which: M5S 20' L-SP-PSd'Az 15' FIBP-UDC 15' Mixed 25' PD 10' FdI 20' IV-PSI --- Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) ---]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u45	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, Senators, today, on International Nursing Day, I feel obliged to address to them all my gratitude for the commitment to which they have been called in these harsh times of pandemics. The date of May 12 was chosen on the occasion of the anniversary of the birth of Florence Nightingale, considered the mother of modern nursing. We owe you the application of the scientific method to medical care. She was an iconic woman, who spent her life caring for the sick with professionalism and dedication, although she was suffering from fibromyalgia, which caused her great suffering. In fact, today in his honour is also the World Day for fibromyalgia, a syndrome that is far from rare, involving about two million Italians. I have long been interested in the subject; I have filed bill No. 899, so that fibromyalgia is recognized as a fully invalidating disease. The fibromyalgia is unfortunately still a little known pathology and the lack of information makes the diagnosis very often extremely difficult; this makes it difficult for people affected by this disease to receive adequate care quickly, because often you have difficulty recognizing the symptoms and understanding that the pathology is the cause of the pain. In addition to the disease, these people serve a sense of isolation, which causes further suffering. For this reason, I firmly believe that giving visibility to this disease and its symptoms can help millions of people in Italy and around the world. [[Applause]] I thank the association Libellula Libera, with which I have had the opportunity to collaborate in these years and to which goes all my esteem for the daily work she carries out. I also take this opportunity to thank the President of the Senate, Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, for making it possible to illuminate today of purple Palazzo Madama. The initiative has been promoted by the most representative associations of fibromyalgic patients and has been welcomed by many administrations, which this evening will illuminate of purple squares and monuments throughout Italy. The aim is to raise public awareness of the conditions of patients with fibromyalgia, but also to spread more knowledge and promote prevention. Wearing a purple bow today is a small gesture that can mean so much to so many people. I will do so, together with my colleagues, in the hope that many will follow our example. Let us illuminate fibromyalgia so as not to leave in the darkness the pain of so many patients and their families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I have also asked to speak because, as my previous colleague said, today is fibromyalgia day. Tonight Palazzo Madama will be lit up with purple and will also be present some representatives of the association. The day was established to give visibility to a disease, to a very serious syndrome, really serious, that in our country affects many people, mostly women, and that is not recognized. Our country does not recognize fibromyalgia as a disease and I take the opportunity to say that there is a bill that has been lying for a long time in the Health Commission and today should be a time when we all strive to succeed in taking this great step. This is crucial, because these sick women and men need this recognition. They must not be invisible, we must make them visible, they must have reference points, there must be regional reference centres: these patients must finally be taken over by the National Health Service. They spend their time passing from one doctor to another and unfortunately many take advantage of it, as often happens in these cases. When there are no answers from the National Health Service, unfortunately it happens that others deal as effective treatments that are not, so there is also a problem of legality. I believe that today can be for us, as for the other institutional buildings that will be illuminated tonight, an opportunity to take on this commitment. In this period of pandemic by Covid, the situation of these patients has worsened further. They have great problems because there is no recognition of the disease and everything it involves, such as the work problem, because this is a complex and crippling syndrome, which gives much pain and makes life difficult. I therefore hope that today, even with this symbolic sign of enlightenment, for which I thank the President, we can light up a little bit the way to finally reach the recognition of fibromyalgia as the World Health Organization has long been asking us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u51	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I would like to point out a situation that has been urged by the wedding category, namely wedding ceremonies, in particular by the Ristoworld association, which has 12,000 members. It is a chain that covers many categories of workers such as florists, restaurateurs, confectioners, printers, goldsmiths, musicians and many others, who are clearly suffering the situation of closure, among other things with the impossibility of planning, having no indication of a date of certain beginning. This indication is of fundamental importance to allow the planning of their work activity, but it is also important for young couples who wish to convolate to wedding, which could allow a more serene programming. Some couples also complain that they have postponed the date several times. This particular is not confined to the employment sector alone, but also has a national impact on the subject of birth. In fact, Istat data show that the number of births is more copious in marriage unions than in de facto unions. This is a fact, it is not an ideological approach. Therefore, in addition to the damage we also bring the mockery. In addition, some operators have been refreshed (in fact they have received more than one questue, we mean it in this way), while others, like the subjects employed in the artistic or musical field, have not yet received anything. In conclusion, Brothers of Italy, who reaffirms their closeness to the operators of the weddings and events sector, calls for the indication of a certain and unequivocal date of resumption of the activity of this sector. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u54	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, this afternoon I would like to draw the House's attention to the unlikely story of Lara Lugli. Lara is a volleyball player, whose team, the Amateur Sports Association Blue Volley Pordenone, militant in B1 series, had a private writing signed two years ago with its financial agreement, in which was present, black on white, an anti-maternity clause, that is an article for which the pregnancy was reason for the resolution of the agreement itself. In 2019, towards the end of the sports season, Lara found herself pregnant and Volley Pordenone fired her, without even paying her the last month of activity. A month later he lost the child, due to a miscarriage, but the lawsuit with the leadership resumed two years later, when Lara was sued for damages, he rea that he had compromised the season of the team with his pregnancy; this in response - which I do not hesitate to define intimidating - to his injunction regarding the failure to pay the salary of February. About two months ago, the player publicly denounced everything and, in addition to the clamor in Italy, the news of the event was relaunched by the "New York Times" and the "The Guardian". According to Lara herself, the athlete should have informed the management of the possible desire for pregnancy. To support his cause have intervened the Assist, the National Association athlete, and the Italian Association volleyball players, asking for the quote to be withdrawn and that Federvolley and CONI take measures against the sports society, which has not happened to date. The case was also dealt with by President Alberti Casellati, who said: Invoking the condemnation of volleyball player Lara Lugli because in motherhood it is a violence against women. Maternity has an irreplaceable personal and social value. On behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars we ask Minister Bonetti and Undersecretary Vezzali (a sportswoman, among other things) to publicly demonstrate the solidarity of the top Italian sport to a woman who has seen denied her right to be a mother and to receive the consequent protections. Next May 18 Lara will have to go to court as a defendant, just because she is 38 years pregnant. I consider it an offense to all Italian women and athletes, as well as to our country and Italian sport. We hope, therefore, that the Government will show concrete closeness to Lara Lugli and, while respecting the autonomy of sport, ask for clarification from the leaders of that Federation and the National Olympic Committee. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-325.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 13 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.19 p.m.
