ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2475, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator De Vecchis, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u5	Mr President, I do not hide a certain emotion for the task entrusted to me, that of the rapporteur of such an important and impacting measure on the lives of millions of people. I would therefore like to thank President Matrisciano, the entire Commission and the Offices for their wonderful work in communion of intent. I want to use this expression because, when it comes to people, human lives and families, communion of intent is important. It is impossible to deal with such a measure in a cold and technical way, because the emotion is so great, especially for those who come from the territory, for those who have played roles in Commissions that have competence over social services, of which I have been President. I have met many people who work in the world of the third sector and associationism, so I thank all the political forces for the comparison and listening to these people and these associations. The other day I was talking to a parent who had this problem with his children and pointed out something very interesting. One can only talk about disability if one faces it and knows it and often and willingly lives it, so I will carry out my report with great humility and respect, because it is a very important concept that we are bringing to the attention of our parliamentarians and citizens. I would therefore also like to thank Senator Fedeli for the passage she made on the cultural concept, talking about a small cultural revolution, because we put the person at the centre and not simply the disability. The person is at the center of this provision. [[Applause]] I also thank Minister Stefani, who has also moved us on some passages, because for the first time, gradually entering into the merit of this measure really on the tip of feet and with respect, we talk about multidimensional evaluation, which respects not only expectations, but also attitudes: we move from the phase of assistance to the phase of social inclusion, rights and the improvement of the administrative characteristics of the territory. That is why the work done in the Commission is also important and I thank all the signatories on the agenda, whom I hope will be voted unanimously, for promoting and integrating into the world of work, because we must not just assist, but also give job opportunities worthy of every single citizen, because we must open up to freedom; it is also important to make a reasoning on the removal of architectural barriers, because citizens must also be free in the movement. That is why I consider this measure to be important. Maybe I exaggerate by talking about a small social revolution in rights, but I want to read it this way, because we all put our souls in the bill under consideration. I would like to thank my colleagues in the House who have done a great deal of coordinating work, reaching the unanimous vote, which I will also ask here in Parliament. We have all worked together, in fact, and I thank all the political forces, especially those of opposition, who have not tabled amendments at the request of the rapporteur and the President of the Commission; we have tabled agendas, which we are considering, which, however, bear witness, as is right, to the positions of the parliamentary groups, because we all have to bear witness in this important act, which contains articles which I consider to be fundamental on the different paths of assessment between elderly, adults and children, between people who experience disability from birth and those to whom, unfortunately, a disability occurs during their lives. I would also like to applaud those who tabled the amendment on accidents at work, especially after what happened in Turin - I say this with my heart in pieces - because we must also think of those who unfortunately suffer from disability and the family members who live this condition, because we also think of the family, starting also from the will of the person concerned, from its full understanding and from the measures of active support. It is an individual project that is also part of the territorial context in which the person lives. The involvement of the third sector in the design of projects is very important. I would also like to go into technical matters from an economic point of view. This government will invest a great deal of money: we are talking, from 2023, of 800,000 euros per year, including other measures that we will carry out in the path of the budget law, because this bill is linked to the budget law. We are therefore working to ensure that there is maximum inclusion. I do not want to go too far, so as to leave room for the parties, the arguments on the agenda. I would also like to hear what the Minister may have to say, to which I commend him because, if it is true that there is not yet a Ministry, we finally have a Minister for Disability, who is demonstrating humanity and technical preparation, which, if you like, can improve the lives of citizens. I conclude by saying that I am proud to be rapporteur for the measure before this House and I thank all my fellow senators once again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the approval of this delegation law, the Senate gives the green light today to an epochal intervention, expected by many, too many years, of general reform of the world of disability. The implementation of the decrees provided for in this delegation law will bring innumerable benefits, first of all in terms of simplification. There will be a unique subject that will prevent the disabled from crossing the current bureaucratic jungle between evaluations and examinations of various bodies and subjects that often duplicate, overlap and generate gaps of skills that appear to be made specifically to make those who, on the other hand, should simply see recognized their own right. This also means having the possibility of full access to services, services and financial facilities that allow greater autonomy and independence, personalised paths to allow real inclusion, which must pass, where possible, from full integration into the world of work, which must not be a para-assistant measure, but the instrument to achieve the full dignity of the individual, making him feel an active part of society. The approach of living must also be completely revised in order to allow, through ad hoc solutions, the widest self-sufficiency possible. It is a broad and ambitious project, but it is a path that we must begin to undertake, even if we realize that the goal will not be in the immediate future: today we must have the foresight of the one who sows the plant of dates, knowing that whoever reaps the fruit will come after him. All this happens under the strong thrust of this Government, that, never like others, is paying attention to the harsh reality of this category, thanks only - this must be recognized and proudly emphasized - to the strong demand of the League to establish an ad hoc Ministry, that could coordinate in a cross-cutting way the policies in this matter, and above all to the thickness and experience of Minister Erika Stefani, who in ten months has been able to put to the ground as many measures as they had never seen in the last ten years. [[Applause]] It is to her that, through the strong applause of the Lega Group, thanks go to all the disabled. There have been many results already achieved and it is right to mention them: the increase in the fund for non self-sufficiency, the fund for inclusion, the recognition of the language of Italian signs and the language of tactile signs, the disability card, the increases to the universal single allowance for those who have disabled children and the restoration of invalidity allowances following the decision of INPS that cut pensions to partially disabled persons employed. Also in this budget law there will be important interventions required by the Lega Group for Autism, for the deaf, for the Italian Union of Czechs, as well as additional funds available to the Ministry led by Senator Stefani. Also on the occasion of the emergency Covid there was a great effort on the part of the Minister to pay attention to the last: I remember the vaccination priority for people with disabilities, for their family caregivers, the possibility for assistants and companions of patients with disabilities to support them in the emergency room and hospital, the teaching in presence for pupils with disabilities also in the red zone, the distribution of transparent masks for people with auditory disabilities and the establishment of an ad hoc fund to ensure free swabs for so-called fragile people who cannot vaccinate. It is also commendable that efforts are being made in favour of fragile workers and temporarily unfit workers, even though in this case we must have incomprehensible resistance from the INPS and other ministries. Even today, in the middle of the fourth round of the epidemic, we record that the necessary protections are not guaranteed with automatism, but are once again denied in the decrees and postponed to a possible corrective during the parliamentary conversion. I am referring specifically to exemption from work and absence equivalent to hospitalization, with no impact on compensation, which allows those who cannot work in smart working to put health before work. Paying the sickness allowance costs, but if the Ministry of Economy and Finance finds the funds to restore those who risk failing, it must also find them for those who risk dying. [[Applause]] I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. It must also be said to INPS, with a clear rule of law, that, even if the limit of the contractual compensation limit is reached, the sickness allowance must continue to be paid to those who, by decision of the doctor, cannot work. In the discussion of the draft budget law, it is possible that an amendment of the Lega Group will be accepted which provides for at least one additional month, and this is important, because it defines the principle that that limit is not an insurmountable dogma, but that is not enough. It is unacceptable for the government to tell fragile workers to stay home to protect themselves from the Covid-19, but to starve, because they will not be given a euro. I conclude by recalling Voltaire, who said: The degree of civilization of a country is measured by observing its prisons. Well, there is no worse prison, that is, limitation of freedom, than the one that faces the disabled person who is subject to it, not for his own fault, but by choice of destiny. It is to them that we have to look every day, if we want to continue to call ourselves a civilized country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u8	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the most interesting thing about the bill of delegation for our examination is precisely the starting point, namely the UN Convention which recognizes the right of people with disabilities to remove all the obstacles which somehow prevent them from living as autonomously as possible and of full satisfaction, when they are younger, in the world of school, when they are older, in the world of work, and always, in all the situations and circumstances in which their social life is taking place. Starting with the issue of rights means substantially overturning a position that has been partially stratified over the years, so it seems a gesture of benevolence to accept requests that come from their side. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of the removal of architectural barriers, or of the need to have a teacher supporting school or in the world of work and work, a project that really takes into account not only and not so much what they cannot do, but much and above all what they can do. The fundamental theme is that, if I put myself in a logic of "your right," obviously this immediately refers to a logic of "my duty." If this is a right for them, it is a duty for politics, but then for school, especially for the professional world and also for, for example, the world of sport. The affirmation of the right of a person with disabilities to do sport was indeed a great victory, which exploded this summer, at the Tokyo Olympics, in which we saw people with disabilities achieve results of such a level, such an exciting ability to defeat what each of us for much less would have considered a substantial impediment, to really throw the heart beyond the obstacle and achieve important results. We all know, however, how that victory, which is particularly important on the symbolic level, was the result of a concrete struggle of those who intensely wanted people with disabilities to have their Olympics in the same locations and using the same facilities that had been used a few days before by non-disabled people. The real concept on which we must work, perhaps thanks to the help that will come from this draft law of delegation (I myself have presented an agenda that goes in this direction), is to be able to change the perception of disability, not as an exceptional condition in life, but as a permanent risk in the life of each of us. It is a risk, however, that is pronounced when we grow old, when it becomes difficult to see, listen and move, or when we find disability in doing even the things we have most commonly done before. We all discover on our skin the amount of disability that must increase the sensitivity to meet the disabilities of others, according to a concept that is not that of independence - attention - but that of interdependence, because what the deepening of the concept of disability gives to each of us is just making us feel dependent on each other, according to a quid, in one thing, another or another. We need, therefore, a great mobilization of resources and energies, as much as possible to anticipate these difficulties. It dates back to about twenty-thirty years ago the disability study, i.e. the disability studies with which one was trying to prevent it. Warning: Sometimes disability cannot be prevented, but awareness of it can be increased in certain situations and circumstances. I give some examples: the steps of the buses too high prevent me from getting on; the need, if I go to the station, to ask someone to lift me up to get on, because there is an excessively high level difference; the streets of Rome, in their disconnects, make the accident and the fall easy. A disability study allows you to think ahead of time about situations you might find yourself in and remove them before you even have to impact yourself. I think, from this point of view, of the great wealth, on the level of educational and pedagogical training, of teachers, which concerns not only the teacher of support, who has a specific mission at the service of children with a declared disability, but that culture of the teacher who is able to modulate the development of his own program, avoiding the successive accelerations and stagnations that are due to the fact that the class has not understood and does not follow, so it creates a sort of collective disability. To get ahead of all this, that is, to enter into the shoes and conditions of the people who might be in these conditions, is really the fruit that I hope comes from this bill, culturally speaking. Exactly as the colleague who spoke earlier mentioned, I am referring to everything that prevents disability, which involves incurring in what we can call accidents in the field of work; preventing accidents and ensuring safety at work allows us to prevent so many people becoming disabled after, because we have disabled people who are from birth and disabled who become so because of an intercourse pathology of any kind, also linked to an accident at work, and then we have that physiological disability of the elderly to whom I referred before, to which we are probably all candidates over time. These different forms of disability give us the idea of why we need to rethink disability, continuously modulate it in time, space and stress with which we come into contact, always trying to reason by anticipating situations and avoiding that people have to experience the feeling of being inferior or not being able to do things that others do. It is the intelligence of the law that I believe should guide all the next policies we face. This can be a huge help, because it is clear that a law designed in this way is transversal, as it concerns the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour. The measure, however, also concerns the Ministry of Economic Development, because it is a question of thinking and planning situations. Let's think, for example, about what you are impacting in the historic center of Rome, when you are lucky enough to have a house with an elevator, but to get to which you come across a series of steps or even slopes. Let's think about the idea of designing using all the resources that new technologies, including what we call digital transition, make available to people today. Let's think about the effectiveness of smart working (also called agile work), which allows these people to face their work with serenity, feeling able to produce the sources of their income. Last winter we had examples of disability pension that made us horrify: a 100% disability pension equal to 280 euros is clearly a disability slap and a further humiliation. What people with disabilities ask us is to put them in a position to earn what they need for their lives. We must develop this great creativity rich in humanity, but also of scientific, social, human and organizational competence. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u10	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u11	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is designed to make the rights recognised in the 2006 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities effective. This is an important measure, recognised and seen as such by our colleagues in the House of Deputies, who unanimously approved it at first reading. The bill aims to improve the approach to the topic, which focuses no longer on disability, but on people with disabilities. The focus therefore moves directly on the person, the individual and his uniqueness. It is a historic moment for more than three million people and their families. Finally, the law establishes the fundamental and sacrosanct principle, which can no longer be derogated from today, of the self-determination of the person, with his/her needs, attitudes and peculiarities. The mission of the measure, for which I thank the Government and, in particular, Minister Erika Stefani, who since the day of his installation has shown how to act to improve the everyday life of people with disabilities, is to introduce measures that start from the needs of women and men in the fullness of their desires and with their passions, ambitions and plans for future life, reaching a project of personalized and independent life, a specific support for everyone and an ad hoc path, based on multidisciplinary approaches that respect and take into account the uniqueness of each life. We must bear in mind that behind each of these three million and beyond of individuals there is a different history and need, which the State has a duty to satisfy, and a future that must be preserved and guaranteed, following the lines dictated by the person involved and his family. This bill restores dignity and places a fundamental brick in the main wall of the path that is being made, thanks to the concrete commitment of Minister Stefani, towards a true inclusion of the person with disabilities from the working and social point of view. The measure also guarantees the recognition of the person's condition through an assessment of the same congruent, transparent and easy, which allows the exercise of all civil and social rights, including the right to independent life and, therefore, social and occupational inclusion. In addition, the bill promotes the autonomy of the person with disabilities and the conditions of equal opportunities with others, respecting the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination. I am convinced that this House will also show the same sense of responsibility as our colleagues in the House of Deputies. We are writing history on this topic and we have the opportunity to make our country a leap forward of civilizations, with a decisive state of quality. In order to achieve this, in order to move from power to act, action was needed with a measure that would simplify and de-bureaucratic, making the system of recognition of the condition of disability more rapid and streamlined and aligning it with the principles of the UN Convention. These are the demands of people with disabilities, their families, associations that deal with them and administrations, who finally have an institutional point of reference and an open channel of dialogue and constant confrontation. After years of talk of spot inclusion, such as a slogan to be announced if necessary, after years in which millions of people have felt abandoned, protected only by farraginous regulations and too many technicalisms, we finally began to talk seriously about projects and solutions. That to our examination is therefore a measure of civilization, which among other innovations introduces the figure of the National Guarantor of Disabilities: a necessary figure, which will facilitate the path of social inclusion. It is a subject that has no political color and a measure that goes beyond the lines and ideologies and that is highlighting a great cooperation between the parties, to get to the final goal as soon as possible. In this House, in fact, thanks to our vote we will contribute effectively to improving the lives of many of our fellow citizens and we can say that we have left our country a little better - and a little fairer - than we have found it. I'm telling you, I've decided to go into politics for this very reason. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u13	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of delegation on disability, already voted for by the House of Deputies for humanity, represents the implementation of one of the reforms foreseen in mission 5 of the PNRR, inclusion and cohesion component 2, social infrastructure, families, community and third sector. In Italy, in 2019, people with disabilities were more than 3 million and represented 5.2 percent of the population: a real social emergency and a complex problem, with many facets, that the measure in question addresses trying to put some firm points and give concrete and clear answers to the many people affected by disabilities. They are people whose life has been marked by a pathology that compromises, more or less prematurely and forever, the existence and the way of living everyday life. The focus of this measure is represented by a personalized and participated life project, which allows people with disabilities to become again protagonists of their lives and to find a real and active path of social inclusion, including independent life projects, trying to remove barriers and simplify access to services. As President Count said several times, the Movimento 5 Stars has made the problem of disability and attention to fragile people one of the key themes of its social policies. The bill that we are about to approve today creates the appropriate regulatory conditions to guarantee the person with disabilities full citizenship, understood as the full application of its civil and social rights, and its occupational inclusion in the community, respecting the principles of non-discrimination. It lays down, where ever there is still need, what humanitarian spirit and social solidarity have always defended and respected as the founding and integral value of our cohesive community, respectful of the rights of others and attentive above all to people in difficulty. The message is clear: don't leave anyone behind. This must not simply be a propaganda slogan, but a responsible behavior, which engages and marks our common life, so that it is respectful of the rights of people with disabilities and attentive to their full social inclusion. This is Italy we want: more rights and less discrimination. [[Applause]] The main points of the law are the objectives that it wants to achieve for people with disabilities: a project of personalized and participated individual life that involves a new perspective of life in which affectivity, sociality, respect, the satisfaction of their health, relational and environmental needs, the valorization of their potential, support and help to their families represent no longer the exception, but the rule. Putting people with disabilities at the centre and no longer on the margins of social life is the cornerstone of this project. This is a change, a radical change. Disability is seen no longer as a handicap or reason for individual discrimination, but as a respect for the individual and strong signal of social solidarity, guaranteeing everyone the full exercise of their civil rights, full social and working inclusion. More rights and less discrimination is the fundamental prerequisite for taking an important step forward, for guaranteeing the right to self-determination of the most fragile citizens. Mr President, I would like to highlight other aspects of this law, such as the planned upgrading of public services in the area of inclusion, accessibility and the establishment of a National Disability Supervisor, which will be an independent and collegiate body. In my opinion, the big novelty, the backbone that pervades and animates the whole measure and represents a new almost revolutionary aspect is that disability is no longer seen as a burden to be surrogated or a simple passivity for the community, but gives it an active role of participation and the possibility to use the contribution that every disabled person can offer, even in the objective difficulties, to the common growth. The law represents a firm point for our country: it is not and cannot be a point of arrival, but it is certainly a step forward. There is still a long way to go, but the 5 Star Movimento is there, it is present and it knows well the right direction to follow for the common good and to satisfy the demands and needs of citizens all and the most fragile people in particular. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a national context with more than three million people with disabilities, this day really has an important value, an added value. Thanks go to Minister Erika Stefani in the first place and to all those who contributed to this important text. The draft law represents the implementation of one of the reforms foreseen in Mission 5, inclusion and cohesion, of the PNRR, which includes the Social Infrastructure Component, families, community and third sector. The reform provides for a delegation law covering all persons with disabilities with its core in the personalized and participated life project aimed at enabling people with disabilities to be protagonists of their lives and achieve effective inclusion in society. The main objective of this reform is to amend disability legislation and promote deinstitutionalisation, i.e. transfer from public or private institutions to the family or homes of the community for the autonomy of people with disabilities. This should involve strengthening the provision of social services; simplifying access to social and health services; reforming disability assessment procedures; promoting independent life projects; promoting the work of expert groups able to support people with disabilities with multidimensional needs; defining - the areas are very clear and limited - the condition of disability; rehabilitating and simplifying sector legislation; establishing the condition of disability and reviewing its basic evaluation processes, unifying all findings concerning civil disability, civil blindness, deafness, deafness, disability, even for school purposes, disability foreseen for targeted placement and any other existing legislation on disability assessment; thus, a multidimensional assessment of disability; the personalised project of independent life; the computerisation of evaluation and archiving processes; the redevelopment of public services in the field of inclusion and accessibility; the establishment of a National Disability Supervisor. Clearly, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the European Commission's 2021-2030 strategy, is being implemented in a very direct and concrete way. The objective is to ensure that the person recognizes his/her condition also through an assessment of the same congruent, transparent and easy, in order to allow the full exercise of his/her civil and social rights, including the rights to independent life and full social and working inclusion, but also the effective and full access to the system of services, benefits, financial transfers envisaged and any other related facilitation to promote the autonomy of the person with disabilities and his/her living on the basis of equal opportunities with others, in compliance with the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination. A number of changes have also been made during the examination of the Chamber of Deputies. Eight are the very clear areas, within each of which there are specific principles and guiding criteria: in particular, the adoption of a definition of disability, including by supplementing Law No 104 of 1992 and introducing provisions providing for a basic disability assessment, distinct from a subsequent multidimensional assessment; a basic assessment that can be activated by the person with disabilities or by those who represent it, subject to adequate information on interventions, support, the benefits to which it can access, aimed at the personalized and participated individual life project, and ensuring the same basic assessment of the application of criteria that are appropriate to take into account gender differences. This is indeed an important and significant day: it represents the human value and dignity of man in a Constitution amplified through this text. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u16	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u17	Mr President, the draft law on delegation to the Government on disability is provided for in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and this is already a relevant political fact in itself, because it means that the PNRR resources made available by our Common European House to recover from the terrible pandemic by Covid-19 in the context of Mission 5 (cohesion and inclusion) are aimed primarily at improving the condition of people with disabilities. The main objectives are the deinstitutionalisation and autonomy of people with disabilities in order to implement the 2006 UN Convention, with the first updating of the rules of investigation also through legislative changes. Today our country has a great opportunity: to intervene also on the legislative language - now to be banned - like that contained in law no. 104 of 1992, which still refers to the term handicapped and not to people with disabilities as part of human diversity and holders of human rights. In any case, in Italy we do not start from scratch: we have had very important laws, such as No 328 of 2000, which first sanctioned the individual project for taking care of people with disabilities. It is a concept recalled, then, by Law No. 112 of 2016, the so-called law after us, which also emphasized the right to housing autonomy and the implementation of Article 19 of the UN Convention on the right to choose where and with whom to live; a law, the law after us, of great innovation, which unfortunately sees very different implementations between the various regions. Minister Stefani, the law of delegation must create the procedural conditions for the individual project to actually be realized, in order to create a system capable of identifying the mechanisms that in practice allow the person with disabilities to live the life that has been chosen for itself. In this regard, I would like to recall a point inserted in the text by the House, namely the guarantee that, where it is subject to a measure of legal protection or needs support at the highest intensity, the person with disabilities will always be placed in the condition, at the maximum of his/her possibilities, to express his/her own will and understand what is proposed to her, because without the protagonism of the person any project of life can be respectful of his/her dignity: this is our challenge. The delegation must therefore strengthen multidimensional pathways, a method that should be the heritage of public administration. Also through the resources of the PNRR - and not only - social and health integration must be achieved in practice throughout the national territory. We must strengthen the social services of the municipalities, including by repealing the precariousness of social workers and workers. We are counting on the budgetary law under discussion here in the Senate in these hours to move forward in this direction: strengthening the access points of territorial areas and the close cooperation between municipalities and ASL. It is appreciated that the delegation law resumes the adoption of the international classification on the operation. But I hope that on this point there will be a thorough and profound reasoning in implementing decrees to adopt scientific studies that take into consideration not so much quantitative, or not only quantitative, but also and above all qualitative assessments and that take into account first and foremost the biopsychosocial well-being of people with disabilities. Very important is the Chamber's work on distinguishing evaluation paths - as the rapporteur, Senator De Vecchis, recalled - planned for the elderly from those for adults and minors, and the emphasis on gender differences in disability. For this reason, in particular, I would like to thank Mr Lisa Noia, who, together with the other rapporteur, have done an excellent job in the short time they have been given. We know that the Senate will not be able to make any changes to the text, because it must be concluded by 31 December. Of course, we are not happy about this contraction in parliamentary activity, but I would like to thank the associations which, on this occasion too, have not failed to make their contribution in terms of proposals and ideas, and Mrs Stefani, who spoke with the parliamentary groups during the legislative process. We are certain that, in the preparation of the implementing decrees, very important, the Minister will take charge of the involvement of the countless parliamentary experiences present both in the Chamber and in the Senate. I would also like to stress that, at this stage of increasing infection and spreading of the Omicron variant, we must vaccinate, speed up the administration of the third dose and its reservation, precisely to protect ourselves, fragile people and their families. Ultimately, the law that we will vote today provides us all with the great opportunity to really renew our welfare, towards a welfare closeness, participated and adult, that promotes the autonomy of all people, nobody excluded. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u18	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u19	Mr President, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the Senate is discussing an important measure, the draft law which delegates to the Government in the matter of disability. The reform provides for very clear aims already in the first article and indicates its fundamental reason in the project of personalized and participated life, aimed at allowing people with disabilities not only to be more independent, but also to be protagonists of their own life and to achieve an effective and full inclusion in society. While it is true that the custom project exists since the time of the approval of Law 328 of 2000, it is equally true that the conditions have never been created for a system finally to be built actually capable of identifying the modalities for this autonomy to be fully realized existentially. These concepts will also be highlighted and enriched by the agendas presented. The centrality of the person implies respect for his/her projects in any situation of constraints or limitations they are conceived. This is the fundamental democratic principle in which the authentic relationship of care, taking care refers not to an organism body, therefore to symptoms or pathologies, but to a person body, with its desires, its anxieties, its joys and its affections; the person therefore as a subject of care and not as an object of care. The law allows us to conceive hope to build paths that can counter the loneliness and marginalization of people with different fragility, even when they lack family support, investing on the right to be recognized the individual specificity and dignity of a life accompanied and helped, respected in its differences. It is a cultural investment that involves both a recognition of limitations and constraints, but also the dimension of the possibility, that is, of being able to be, of the project of self, conceived by a concrete person, single, unrepeatable and in right to pursue his own project of personalized life, to be realized certainly involving families, institutions and the territorial community against the different forms of homologation and, unfortunately, worse, segregation. The European Commission document on the assessment of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) in our country indicates that the above-mentioned disability framework law should enter into force by 31 December 2021, subject to the loss of the relevant European funds. We are therefore here today to conclude such an important journey for the lives of millions of citizens and their families, in full respect of the path indicated by Europe. If the aim is to promote deinstitutionalisation and autonomy, this means strengthening and - I stress - innovating the provision of social and health services, social and health services and social assistance; simplifying access; intervening in the verification procedures; promoting independent life experiences; creating working groups capable of supporting people with multidisciplinary needs - people are different from one another - through multi-professional responses. The main objective is, therefore, to ensure that people with disabilities are recognised, through a transparent and easy assessment, in order to allow the full exercise of their social and civil rights and equal opportunities, while respecting the principles of self-determination and the fight against discrimination. It is very important, then, that in the discipline on the ascertainment of the condition of disability take the definition enshrined in the UN Convention, because it is finally implemented the cultural vision that the Convention itself promotes, starting from a vision no longer based on the medical model, which places the pathology at the centre, but referring to the result of the interaction between the different forms of fragility and the individual characteristics of the person and the surrounding environment. In this sense, it affirms the ownership of the same human rights recognized to every person already at his or her coming to the world, with the universal rights due by all, but that can be exercised by all only by removing environmental, cultural, social, relational and behavioral obstacles that prevent full and effective participation in society. It is a decisive overcoming of the exclusively technical medical dimension, which prevailed for so long in the determination and definition of the conditions of disability, with the renewed objective, instead, to ascertain the residual capacities and to value them in a logic of recognition of what every person with disabilities is able to do; a unitary multidimensional evaluation, respecting the fragility and wounded existences. So we need to change our vocabulary, too. We no longer have to say "disabled people" because we are talking about people, about people who are different from each other. I therefore believe that it is very important that we also have different evaluation paths between adults, older people and minors, and that we have established suitable criteria in the evaluation for gender differences. In this respect, I would like to thank the Members of the House who have worked in this direction in the referee. Delegation is therefore a fundamental step and important resources are needed for implementing decrees. The PNRR provides EUR 500 million for deinstitutionalisation, with the transition from the welfare of protection to the recognition of rights. We will no longer have standardised services, in which people have to adapt, but an essential level of performance that goes towards the recognition of the specific needs of each person. The services are renewed by putting these needs at the centre and building them capable of responding to them. Disability must be considered not only with regard, therefore, to welfare policies, but also to a broad context of protection of rights, which affects politics and administration in all its national, regional and local areas. In short, it is a question of recognizing the right to build life projects from any condition. We have many examples that we could cite, of people who, starting from seemingly very disadvantaged situations, have managed to build a life project for themselves. To recognize the right to build projects, to universal accessibility as a primary and inalienable need for freedom, autonomy, self-determination, equality of all citizens, the right to work, the right to an autonomous life: all this, colleagues, helps to measure the democratic quality of a country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on disability is finally before the Senate, which would have been more desirable in both branches of Parliament. Instead, as is now the case in the most recent legislation, practice wants all the political and non-political nodes to be tackled and dissolved in one House, relegating the second to a mere task of ratification. This, among other things, concerns the examination not only of the measures on which the Government raises the question of trust - although they undoubtedly represent the majority of cases - but also of the acts, such as the present draft law, on which Parliamentary scrutiny seems to have been formally legitimate. However, it is sufficient to see the accounts of the 11th The Commission, the body responsible for examining the measure, to observe - as they say - that we did not touch the ball. Of course, this criticism is also directed to the examination of the draft budget law which is about to be voted on by the Senate Assembly without any real examination being carried out in the Commission. If the Draghi Government believes that these procedures are respectful of the democratic principle and the sovereignty of Parliament, it finds my strong opposition. Returning to the measure under consideration, there is no doubt that the aim of achieving full social and working inclusion of people with disabilities can only be a general objective to be pursued in a more satisfactory way than the current set-up. The reform, in fact, has an ambitious objective and I think that every citizen of common sense can only endorse the idea that the public system and the civil society in which it lives can facilitate the lives of people with disabilities. For this reason, a genuinely democratic state has a duty to ensure that a disabled citizen is assured of the full exercise of its civil and social rights, as stated in Article 1 of the bill, including the right to independent living, full social and working inclusion, as well as effective and full access to the system of services, benefits and financial transfers provided for and to any other related facilitation. The delegation, therefore, is aimed at promoting a system of greater autonomy of the person with disabilities, so that his/her life is based on certain non-negotiable principles: equal opportunities, self-determination, non-discrimination and substantial equality. My hope as a citizen, teacher and senator of the Republic is that this bill of delegation can be filled with content so that a better process of integration and personal inclusion can take place in society, in all the ways in which it can take place. However, I cannot fail to note some shortcomings concerning reform, in the knowledge that the precondition for improving the life of a person with disabilities is the awareness of the local community in which a person lives both from a civil and a public point of view. I am referring to the need for reference communities and local administrations to be the first to make the life of a disabled person easier, being called upon to understand the greatest physical and psychological difficulties of this state and to facilitate inclusive processes. As I said, the draft law which we are preparing to vote on, while hoping that it will be useful for those directly concerned, lacks a vision of structure and of the whole. We welcome - for example - a rationalization of the different procedures whereby a disabled person approaches the relationship with the public sector. But the concrete references to how to improve the quality of life of a disabled person in every respect, in reference to the daily school, work, cultural or sports contexts are only mentioned. It remains to be seen in what way the idea of individual, personalized and participatory life design, including its implementation in order to ensure the satisfaction of the person concerned, will be realized, in order to evaluate ex post those that certainly appear good intentions. However, even if I am voting in favour, my judgment cannot but remain suspended, even because the issue of school inclusion is not adequately focused. I take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that I have also prepared an agenda on the issue of professional recognition of assistants to autonomy and communication, on which there is a worrying and unjustified delay by the State, despite the so-called decree of inclusion, Legislative Decree No 66 of 2019, had given a maximum time within which to reach an agreement at a unified conference, and the deadline was March 2020. On the other hand, I cannot fail to note that for years Parliament has been trying, powerless, to make a breakthrough in increasing the number of teaching staff in service. Each school year that is started without providing a teacher with the relevant qualification to the pupil or to the student who would be entitled to it represents a failure of our system, not able to respond with an organic endowment suitable to the needs emerging from society. So here is an example of the partiality of the legislative delegation, which also includes school inclusion as one of the objectives of the reform. I'm not talking about college. While it is true that funds are provided in the PNRR to ensure that there is no discrimination in research, I would remind you that in Italy there are over 16,000 university students with DSA (specific learning disorders) who are unable to pass the tests for registration or carry out a course of studies - even in some cases with tragic consequences - because they are not guaranteed the dispensing and compensatory instruments that still remain at the discretion of the teachers. As a result, there is no legal certainty, despite a law voted in 2010. I should like to conclude with the hope that the agenda presented by the President of the Commission, whom I have signed, on the revision of Law No 68 of 1999, on occupational inclusion, will be effective. There are many disabled workers without employment; it would be enough to give them the appropriate tools to overcome interviews or tests of work and to bring out their professionalism. I do not deny that the opportunity could be useful to make an overall cut on the relationship between legislation and bureaucracy - on the one hand - and the universe of disability - on the other - in order to achieve a restructuring of the general relationships that can facilitate and improve the quality of life of disabled people. The opportunity, therefore, can be propitious and must not be thrown to the nettles, but any satisfaction can only be declared at a later stage, when we see how the objectives of the law will be pursued and, above all, what the tangible impact will be on the quality of life of those directly concerned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u22	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u23	Mr President, today is a beautiful day that I think each of us can dedicate to someone special who is close to him, to those people whom we call fragile, but who are actually very strong. [[Applause]] I dedicate it to my father, I dedicate it to Betta, Mauro, Davide, Omar, Mori, Ferruccio and all those people who can be our superhero friends and who today deserve to be protagonists in this House. Since the adoption of the last framework law on disability - the famous law no. 104 of 1992, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our legislation - thirty years have passed and the world has changed in this time; terminologies have changed; approaches to disability have changed; - fortunately - sensitivity and the very concept of equal opportunities and social inclusion have changed; culture is changing if God wills. It is constantly heard to repeat at every institutional and social level that no person must be left behind. And in this particular historical moment, in which we speak of innovation, digitalization and evolution of each system, the revolution must also concern the level of civilization of a country like Italy which, in full capacity, has been recognized by the Economist Country of the year, and not because it is the largest, the richest or the happiest, but because it is the one that has improved most during the year and today we are proudly proving it. For this reason, concrete attention could not be lacking to the world of disability in order to intervene quickly, given the need to update as much as possible obsolete definitions, if not unacceptable, and to put order in that archipelago of right norms, but scattered, often unapplied, as - for example - to name one out of all, that on the plans for the elimination of architectural barriers, mandatory, but - alas - still absent in more than 90 percent of the municipalities. The objective of the delegation is to give effect to the rights and protection of all citizens with disabilities and is at the heart of a project of personalized and participated life, aimed at allowing people with disabilities to be the protagonists - as we have heard from several voices - of their lives and to achieve an effective inclusion in society. In addition, we preferred to work on a progressive updating of definitions, criteria and methods of ascertaining invalidity - a very important issue - by not touching the existing tables. Above all, we wanted to safeguard the rights acquired in previous evaluations, always guaranteeing the possibility of making use of the best conditions. Among the projects of independent life there is space for the first time sport, thanks to an amendment by Giusy Versace, which I take advantage of to thank for the commitment and tireless daily work. [[Applause]] In fact, the right to sports practice and to play-motor activity has also been included, with a view to social inclusion and promotion of well-being. Finally, the delegation welcomes another important legislative initiative by our colleague Roberto Novelli, who also provides for the establishment of the authority to guarantee fragile people: a very important institutional figure, of a collegial and independent nature, which will not only collect reports, but will also have specific powers, including corrective ones. I'm not going in on this. We have integrated several international benchmarks in the assessment of the various disabilities and obtained a greater participation of the associations; associations that I take advantage today to thank, starting from Anmic, to reach all the territorial associations of the disabled. In short, we hope that the unanimous approval of this law can be a good sign, too - why not? - Christmas. I warmly thank Minister Stefani, for he has done a wonderful work of liaison and has made us work as one team. And this really means to have very clear what are the objectives of a Government that wants to change Italy. From Forza Italia there will always be maximum support and maximum collaboration, convinced as we are that everything that is necessary for some is always useful for everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u24	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many aspects of this rule have already been taken into account. We are starting from the United Nations Convention, but also from our Constitution. Today we can take a big step forward on the issue of disability, to try to alleviate all the difficulties of the families involved. During my term of office, I often met parents who have disabled children and told me about the many difficulties they encounter. Today the National Recovery and Resilience Plan can certainly be a useful tool to try to improve and above all simplify legislation, moving towards the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination. Perhaps those who do not have a direct experience in this field and are not forced to live harsh situations forget; perhaps it would also be good to remember that we can all become disabled. Allow me a digression. I came to know one fact: two boys, Vito and Gianni, from Castellammare del Golfo, to promote hippotherapy, a very useful and recognized therapy especially for children, are traveling all over Italy on horseback. They left Trieste and in a few days they will arrive in Castellammare del Golfo, which is their town of birth and residence. I want to applaud these two young people because we are working here, but civil society and Italians are also trying to do their best on this issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u27	Mr President, we are in this House today to discuss an important and awaited measure, which has unfortunately been compressed in Parliament's work at the end of the year and in the budget law, and which has little scope for further discussion by this branch of Parliament. But responsibly we look to the needs of Italian citizens and we positively evaluate the content of the delegation, which aims at the exercise of civil and social rights, including the right to independent life and social and occupational inclusion, and to promote the autonomy of the person with disabilities and the conditions of equal opportunities with others. Finally, we must ensure that the existing rules are coordinated and simplified. In particular, I would like to highlight the most important passages for me in this direction: we envisage the separation of evaluation paths for older people from those for adults and minors; the introduction in general terms of the concept of reasonable accommodation and the related means of protection in the workplace, in order to ensure that the generic provision already in place that employers, both public and private, ensure, by means of reasonable accommodations, the full equality of disabled people with other workers becomes a reality. We anticipate the rationalization and unification, in a single procedure entrusted to a single subject, of the basic evaluation process of disability with the other evaluations currently planned, on welfare treatments, integration and inclusion in school, compulsory placement, prosthetic health and rehabilitation care, the concept of non self-sufficiency and the benefits both tax and mobility. All these procedures so far required individual access and the need to turn to different structures; finally a procedure that should include simplification procedures including review and re-evaluation. There is also a forecast that the definitions of the criteria and methods of determining invalidity percentages will be progressively updated, without prejudice to the rights which have already been acquired. It is also expected that the multidimensional assessment of disability will be carried out through the establishment and organisation of multidimensional assessment units, composed in such a way as to ensure the integration of take-over, evaluation and design interventions by the competent social and health care administrations, interventions that guarantee the effective enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms, the achievement of the objectives of the person according to his/her wishes, expectations and choices, as well as the possibility in some cases of living independently and according to self-managed personal assistance models. Finally, there is the forecast that the implementation of the individual project will be ensured in any case as the territorial and life context of the person with disabilities changes; the definition of the hypotheses in which this individual project can also, in whole or in part, be self-managed; the appointment by the public employers of a person responsible for the process of integrating workers with disabilities into the working environment and the establishment of a National Disability Supervisor, which is a link with the existing figures. Finally, it is envisaged to define procedures for determining the essential levels of benefit for persons with disabilities and to identify a transitional framework guaranteeing service objectives, promoting collaboration between public and private entities, including third sector entities. So far the positive aspects, but there is something that I think has been left behind and I am referring to two aspects in particular. Within the disability rules there are those that... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u28	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u29	PIRRO (M5S). It would take a little more attention to such an important and sensitive issue. The protection provided for parents of disabled children always looks to employees, but a child may also have both parents who are self-employed or self-employed. For the future then we must all work together and also take action to extend specially evaluated and studied safeguards to these cases. It is also necessary to improve the inclusion routes for disabled people aimed at reaching their age, because all too often, after school, there is little available for our children and their families. The situation in day centres means that they cannot at present be an adequate response to these needs, being few and poorly distributed on national territory (sometimes even of low professional quality), in fact becoming ghettoizing structures. It is therefore necessary to plan the inclusion designed within society as a central part adapted to fragility, where people's everyday life rotate and which can offer those who need a continuous exchange of skills and growth. It is necessary to provide for inclusion paths which, also through the increase and improvement of the offer of day centres, follow the period of school inclusion for those who are not eligible for occupational inclusion and self-sustaining, but remain resident in the family and not in institutions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been done with the draft law that delegates us to our examination, but much still needs to be done, and for this reason we are waiting for the implementing decrees and the possibility for us to carry out our full parliamentary mandate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u30	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all my fellow senators for their contribution and contribution to the draft law which they have given us today. We are aware of the great debate that took place in the House of Deputies, during which changes and improvements were made to the original text. I move quickly to respond to the ideas offered by the senators who have spoken. Senator Augussori said that the fundamental aspect of this measure, together with all the measures that will be taken for the future, is to move from a welfare system to a system of recognition of rights. This will be the great evolution that will affect the world of disability. I am glad that the senator has listed the results and measures we have taken in the course of this year, since I settled down. True, we have acted, but there is still a lot to do and to deal with all together: the Government, Parliament and the protagonists of the world of disability (regions, municipalities and entities in the third sector). Senator Augussori also made a note on the topic of fragile workers. During my term of office, we have dealt with this subject several times with various measures and the protections have been extended. This is certainly a particularly complex issue, which I hope will also be dealt with in the budget law, trying to respond to these workers. I share what Senator Binetti said about the perception of disability. This is a fundamental issue. As also said by Senator Augussori, we will have to surpass that vision of the world of disabilities linked only to assistantism or - worse still - to a pietistic dimension (forgive me the expression). We will change this perception when the issue of disability is really put to the system, rethinking it correctly. Senator Alessandrini focused on a fundamental theme, that is to put the person with disabilities at the center of her life. The main axis of the measure is precisely to put people with disabilities at the center of their lives, building around it their own project. Senator Mautone referred to a truly fundamental theme, which is the great concept of community. After what we have been through in this terrible period of health emergency, which then became an economic and social emergency, it emerged how fundamental it is to really rebuild and rethink our society in terms of true community and true solidarity. I thank Senator Urraro for having technically retraced, as he knows how to do, the issues that concern this draft law delegation, which is highly procedural and should not affect existing and acquired rights, but proposes a system of procedures aimed at getting streamlined and sburocratizzazione. I would even like it to be interpreted as a procedural LEP, i.e. as an essential level of procedural performance. Senator Parente made a comment on the timing of the draft delegation law under consideration, which descends on the timings that were imposed in the PNRR. These have somewhat reduced the scope for comparison, especially in this area of Parliament. From this point of view, I would once again like to thank all my fellow Members and senators, today's rapporteur, the reporters of the measure in the House of Deputies, Mr Noja and Mr Sportiello, and all the parliamentary groups. The draft law under consideration has in fact become a container within which to insert all the various sensitivities, considerations and arguments carried out by the parliamentary groups, which have become a vehicle of representation and also of visions, as did the great associations and federations. I must emphasize the aspect on which Senator Iori spoke about culture and real change in the vision of the world of disability, so that real solidarity can be achieved. I think that in the period of Covid, if there were and there are cracks in the institutions and mechanisms, they have been even more highlighted. Disability has precisely the characteristic of putting under stress the system and if we see that a system, put under stress, works for people with disabilities, then it can really work for everyone. This is the great challenge that we must take up from the world of disability. Senator Iori also spoke of resources: it is true that reforms and interventions do not walk on the legs of resources. There is an appropriation which has been prepared for this delegation law, which concerns in particular multidimensional and multidisciplinary assessment units. However, I am sure that, when the flywheel of the world of disability starts, all governments to come and those who decide on future budget laws will take due account of a system that must be taken away from pietism and Christmas donation, and that must be able to count on structural and fundamental resources: only in this way will one really be able to respond to the needs. Senator Iori then made a fundamental reference to the articulations present at the various levels of government and beyond. The world of disability does not have a single commander, there is no branch of state administration that regulates exclusively the world of disability. The latter is the result of a huge network, which works when there is collaboration and co-design and in which interdisciplinarity is created: there are competences of the State, of the Regions and of the Municipalities and there is coordination with the third sector and with the world of families. Only in this way can an effective response be given. Senator Angrisani referred to the timing and, above all, the issue of assistants to the communication: I know that an agenda has also been presented, on which we will then give our opinion. As far as the communication aid fund is concerned, I have worked myself, with my office, so that it can be increased in order to be able to give answers to the same municipalities for these very important particular figures in the world of disability. (13.31) (Follows STEFANI). Senator Gallone made a reference to men and women with disabilities who give great proof and demonstration to us of how life can be addressed. The world of disability has many complications and difficulties, but at the same time there are great energies and great planning. You speak in particular of sport. The result of Italy this year at Paralympics is not occasional; it is not the result of chance, but of a great preparation and an investment that Italy has made on the world of sport and disability. It is for this reason that, when Mr Versace made that proposal, we wanted to welcome it with great conviction because it is part of the way of life in society. Sport is a great vehicle to feel part of our society. Sport is a world in which, having everyone's role, it also allows the person with disabilities to be valued from the point of view of their potential. I'm just making a note. Mr Novelli - it is true - made speeches and he did not foresee the figure of the Guarantor; he spoke about his nature, which is independent and collegiate. I thank Senator Mollame again for his remarks and for the good words he has used against me, and I do not deserve that. Senator Pirro made a consideration of the condition of employees and their possibility to enjoy leave and permits and to possibly extend this discipline to the liberal professions also presented a special agenda. He has made some considerations here and used harsh words about day centres. There may be difficulties, but there are also great excellent and reference realities in the world of work and we should all work together in a choral way for a future on the world of disability, as we have done in the examination and discussion of this draft law delegation and as we are doing now within the government. It will follow the important phase of the implementation of the delegation law for which I will ask everyone for help so that it can be the greatest sharing and the greatest horality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u32	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the agendas, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which agendas have been presented and which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to explain the G1.3 agenda. I agree with the rapporteur's words to thank all the members of the Senate's work committee, which I have the honour to chair, which has shown great synthesis and sensitivity to the measure. I would also like to thank the opposition that has done an excellent job with us in the Commission. I find this same sensitivity on the agenda with the signatures of all. I would like to thank my colleagues Catalfo, Romagnoli, Guidolin, Romano, Laus, Fedeli, Bressa, Carbone, Laforgia, De Vecchis, Alessandrini, Angrisani, Floris and Serafini because they are very dear to our Commission, which concerns the occupational inclusion of people with disabilities. This is an issue that we have addressed and which we have also proposed in our opinion to the PNRR in relation to Mission 5 (Inclusion and Cohesion). Today we are talking about disability and we are dealing with it - or at least so far - only from a health point of view. Disability must instead be considered - and I thank the Government for this bill delegates - also from a social point of view. This can be done through occupational inclusion where, of course, disability allows it. The G1.3 agenda proposes a revision of Law No 68 of 1999. Above all, it envisages considering, within this discipline that today sees on compulsory placement the possibility that people with disabilities pass tests, that the latter contain tests differentiated according to the type of disability that the person is affected. This is because we also need to pay close attention to intellectual disabilities. Today this theme becomes fundamental for us. I would like to thank my colleagues once again for having signed the agenda at my first signature and I conclude by stressing a concept that we must always bear in mind, namely that disability must be considered not as residual capacity, but as potential to be developed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u34	The remaining agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u35	I am in favour of the G1.1 agenda. On the G1.2, the opinion supports the following rewording of the device: "to consider the possibility of future regulatory measures aimed at protecting also self-employed and self-employed persons." The opinion was then in favour of the G1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u36	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u37	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Pirro if he would accept the wording proposed by the rapporteur. PIRRO (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I accept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.2 (text 2) G1.3 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which agendas have been presented and which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u38	Mr President, the agenda for G2.3 basically takes up the common denominator of the other agendas that we have tabled, which is also the philosophy underlying this bill of delegation, namely to look at the person's integrity, taking into account international declarations of rights for disabled people and other acts such as the ICF or the ICD. The agenda commits the Government to the implementation of the delegation in adopting the definition of the operating profile; the attention is to the flexible needs of the person and the record is addressed to the figure of family caregivers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u39	Thank you, Senator Drago. Then, with the presentation of the agenda G2.3, he also presented the others at his first signature. The remaining agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u40	On the G2.1 I express a favourable opinion after the following rewording: "to give effect, as soon as possible, to the provisions of Article 3, paragraph 4, of Legislative Decree No 66 of 2017, as amended by Legislative Decree No 96 of 2019."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u41	Senator Angrisani, do you accept the reformulation? ANGRISANI (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u42	Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.2 agenda. On the agenda, Mr G2.3, I would ask that the system be reworded as follows: In implementing the delegation, the flexible needs of the person and the support of caregivers and family members shall be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u43	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.2 will not be put to the vote. Senator Drago, do you accept the rewording of the G2.3 agenda proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u44	Mr President, I accept the rewording, but I take the opportunity to say that I do not give up on the other agendas. I simply said that the common denominator is that of attention to the person in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u45	I had moved on. Before asking the rapporteur for an opinion on the other agendas, would you like to explain the other agendas at his signature? It's not clear to me, Senator Drago.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u46	I return to his will. These agendas are also important in terms of education. Among other things, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the agenda that has already been voted, signed by the majority, has indeed already been voted in favour of the House because it is aimed at placement targeted precisely by an agenda...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u47	Senator, we have not voted on any agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u48	Drago (FdI). Accepted, forgive me. I was saying, Mr Maria Teresa Bellucci's agenda was accepted in the House, and it is precisely about targeted placement. That is why I am glad that the majority subscribe.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u49	Senator, so I'm gonna give you the agenda for your signature? If, after the rapporteur's opinion, you ask for them to be put to the vote or for an explanation of vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u50	No, Mr. President. I repeat: I return to his will. I did not say that they were all illustrated; I simply said that they had a common denominator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u51	Senator Drago, but I gave you the floor to explain your agenda and I thought you had briefly illustrated them by stressing the common denominator, so I went to the next stage and I can't give you back the word. Senator Drago, did you say you accept the rewording of agenda G2.3? Drago (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Agenda G2.4 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u52	Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.5 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u53	Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.5 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u54	Mr President, I would ask that the G2.6 agenda be reworded in the following words: "It commits the Government: to recognise, in line with the premise, the right to self-determination for persons with disabilities."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u55	Senator Drago, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u56	Mr President, that is a bit questionable. The text of the agenda item G2.6 refers to the right of choice between forms of indirect assistance and direct or mixed forms. The aim is simply to show that they are people with their own uniqueness and everyone must find a suitable place of life.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u57	It seems to me that the reformulation goes in this direction. Do you accept the reformulation? Otherwise, I believe that the rapporteur's opinion could change. I therefore need to know whether or not he accepts it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u58	Mr President, I accept that, in view of the fact that this is a law, the greatest work will be done later. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u59	It is clear to me and thank you. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.6 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u60	Mr President, I would ask that the agenda for G2.7 be reworded by replacing the mechanism with the following words: "It commits the Government: to consider the possibility of providing inclusion routes, including through the increase and improvement of the provision of day centres."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u61	Senator Pirro, do you accept the reformulation? PIRRO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.7 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u62	Mr President, I would ask that the agenda for G2.8 be reworded by including at the beginning of the procedure, after the words: 'the Government is committed:' the diction: 'it is to consider whether it is appropriate'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u63	Senator Drago, do you accept the reformulation? Drago (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.8 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u64	Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u65	Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.9 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u68	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, Madam Minister, I think it is absolutely important that the measure we are examining should be adopted quickly and with unity by all political forces. It is an important signal of attention that should not be underestimated. However, Mrs. Minister, I want to tell you that we must be able to distinguish between what Parliament approves, the laws that we have passed over the years in the country in the matter of disability and what is the real country. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u69	Senator Pharaoh, forgive me for a moment. Members who are leaving the Chamber should do so in silence and those who are holding back should respect Senator Pharaoh who is currently speaking in an explanation of vote, thus allowing the Minister to follow the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u70	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Madam Minister, I believe that we will become a truly civil and democratic country when we manage to reduce the gap between the intentions we have when we adopt a disability law and what really happens in our society. Unfortunately, the gap is still so great today and very often the intentions and principles that are written in the laws of the State that we approve and that are published in the Official Journal, as will be the case with the law in our examination, are far from what actually happens. In real life, in fact, Mrs. Minister, there is the residence for people with psychic disabilities Sister Rosina La Grua in Castelbuono, where people with disabilities were kept without food and without water, were tortured and mistreated. This happened in structures, Mrs. Minister, accredited by public institutions, which paid by the State and the Regions to assist people with disabilities, instead became lager for people who suffered. Parents very often rely on such structures, having confidence in the public and in those who support these structures; they are sure that in there they will be better assisted and instead discover that those places become of isolation and torture. Just as real life, Mrs. Minister, is that of schools. I remember that in this country, even when we have passed laws that have closed, fortunately, special classes and schools, unfortunately still today inclusion routes are put in difficulty by schools that despite the great good will of the teachers, mainly those of support, cannot always favour inclusive paths. I say this because all too often I happen to meet moms and dads who tell me that they are forced to start individual projects in schools with school leaders and teachers, putting in our therapists classrooms paid privately because, still today, Mrs. Minister, there is no specific training for disability. I remember when we tried to provide specific training on individual disabilities, because, if we talk about subjectivity, we also have to talk about different interventions depending on the disability of which that person is the victim and on which, basically, support teachers should include individual interventions with specific trainings. When we tried to train teachers (about autism, blind people, mental discomfort, Down's syndrome or all disabilities), we were told that we wanted to health care the teaching. Therefore, the specialization on individual disabilities to be effective in the inclusion pathways had become a health care of the support. As long as we have this approach, our schools will not be able to facilitate inclusive routes. I say this because all too often in our schools parents have to turn to lawyers for providing communication assistance, for providing teachers with support in proportion to children and children with disabilities in schools. We must intervene on this. I am talking about the distance between what we foresee in the law and what the real country is also about occupational inclusion. Madam Minister, there is a law, No. 68 of 1999, but entrepreneurs, still today, prefer to pay fines, only if they identify non-compliance with the law, rather than hiring people with disabilities. Then, it happens that people with disabilities, through sensitive people, have to build ad hoc entrepreneurial activities, as in the case of excellences such as the association PizAut and the cooperative Chicco Cotto. They are excellences, people who decide to invest on complex paths, but they are extraordinary tools, which are born because businesses, which normally carry out activities and should by law hire people with disabilities, do not do so. Very often, the inclusive work path is also a missed path, which does not give the desired results. The same applies to health facilities, Minister. Too often there are no health care facilities that are qualified to treat people with disabilities, such as a dentist or a doctor. Today it is difficult, for a person with disabilities, for his family, for parents, to go to a hospital and find a sensitive and capable doctor in the care of people with disabilities. Here too, there are laws. But one thing is the laws that we adopt in this Parliament, another thing is the real country. Just like after us. I pride myself on being one of those who helped write that law, thanks to the Renzi Government. [[Applause]] However, the structures on the after us continue to be few in the territories and, especially in some territories, they do not really exist. I know that parents are irreplaceable for people with disabilities. Therefore, we will never be able, as a state, to create structures that can cover the affection and feeling that parents owe and can guarantee. However, we must get as close as possible to that level. To date, Minister, there is still too much distance between the real country and what we write and that, in this case, we have not really written. And we have to intervene on this. As far as caregiver figures are concerned, it is not a whim of parents to want to discipline them. All too often I meet moms and dads forced to leave their jobs to assist their children. And when you miss your salary, which you might pay the therapist with, you don't have how to build that positive care path for your kids. I would like to say to my fellow senators that, instead of voting on agendas, there is a bill in a Commission here in the Senate that must be approved, because only through that law and with the discipline of caregivers will we actually be in a position to give parents the opportunity to stop working to assist their children. Unfortunately, this is not possible today. The last question, Mrs. Minister, concerns the model that we are preparing to guarantee through this delegation and that of course will have to be realized with those measures that the Government will have to put in place: the so-called life paths. This is the correct model, because it recognizes a subjectivity to all the people that we very often massify in the word "disability", within which we put everything, women and men who have a character, an intellect, different abilities and characteristics. If instead we are able to recognize these subjectivity and build life paths guaranteed and supported by the State, we will have done our duty, otherwise we will continue to keep a too high distance between the intentions that legislators, in perfect good faith, have when approving the laws and the real life, which unfortunately is much harder than we can imagine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u73	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, after the unanimous approval of the House of the draft law on disability, this passage is now up to us and I would like to make it clear immediately that, like the House, the Senate of Italy will also vote in favour of the measure. Our party has never failed, nor will it ever, its own proactive contribution and support for measures inspired by the recognition of the dignity of the person and aimed at improving the living and working conditions of those in a situation of fragility. We have shown this in this case in the Commission in the House, but we have also done so with our continuing proposals and, last but not least, we have confirmed this with the amendments we have tabled to the financial maneuver, among which I recall the incentives for the removal of architectural barriers with deductions of up to 75%, but also with the income of solidarity with families with disabled people. I could continue, but I come back to the measure in question, which is one of Italy's commitments in the PNRR. However, we must remember that this measure comes close to the deadline, travels late and must have final approval by the end of the year, according to the commitments made by Italy in the aforementioned PNRR. Mr. Representative of the Government, by voting in favour we therefore carry out an act of responsibility, but also an act of trust, because we are approving a container delegate to the Executive the task of filling it with useful and virtuous content, with the aim and the hope that you will really come to offer people with disabilities a personalized project of life - I repeat - based on social and working inclusion: central theme of the National Conference on Disability of 13 December last. The Government must accept the proposals of citizens and associations received there, as they have been formulated there, but also in the past, in order to give the world of disability a law easily applicable in every region, without differences or discrimination in fact. The aim, in fact, is to ensure a homogeneous assessment throughout the national territory, also rationalising the basic evaluation procedures. They are always concerned, ladies and gentlemen, about the timing of delegated legislation, because it is a mechanism - I say this to the Minister - that must be governed with determination. I am thinking, for example, of the mess that, on the other hand, surrounded the universal single allowance for children, with referrals, delays and approximate calculations. Since the entry into force of the law, the Government must adopt within twenty months the legislative decrees for the revision and the reorganization of the provisions in force in the matter of disability. In our opinion, today you must make a solemn commitment, not only to fill the container with content, but to respect the time and the planned task of revising the basic evaluation processes, for the purpose of targeted placement, on the basis of a multidimensional assessment of disability. The horizon is that - always the same, unfortunately - of the removal of the many barriers (burocratic, architectural, social, working), so that the personalized project leads to full inclusion and an independent life, to what the person with the most short-lived and most desired disability, that is, self-determination and autonomy. Minister Stefani knows that Fratelli d'Italia has collaborated concretely in the Commission to improve the measure. Many of our proposals have been accepted. We have asked for the right to an independent life and full social inclusion to be included as an objective. We supported the full involvement of the National Observatory and the need for its centrality, as we asked and was welcomed - as Mrs Bellucci recalled in her speech to the House - the strengthening of the National Bureau for Policies for People with Disabilities and, again, the nerves, that the basic assessment recognizes the various intensity and not gravity. It has also been accepted the indication, shared by many parliamentary groups, of a necessary overcoming of the tables with the percentages of invalidity, which many injustices have produced, as has been identified the third sector as an important interlocutor in the programming and design phases. We have also shared the introduction, provided for by this law, of the figure of the National Guarantor for the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities and we hope that it will not end up attributing a small star to someone, but rather be an independent and collegiate body with a power of intervention and monitoring to real guarantee of respect for fundamental rights. Similarly, we entrust to the safeguard clause the task of a reform that guarantees fair access to services, services and the exercise of established rights; then it will be the times and the ways of legislative decrees - as I said - the proof, I would say the burden of proof, on the real reordering of the legislation and its effectiveness in terms of certainties and safeguards to people with disabilities. The legislative decrees - the Minister knows - must correspond to that guiding principle contained in the sentence: Nothing on us, without us. Minister, there is in fact a whole world, estimated at around 15% of the population, that of people with disabilities, but also of their families, associations and categories of representation who know what is needed, knows what is missing and has been waiting too long for reform. Unfortunately, the same problems must always be solved: architectural barriers, transport, inclusion in the world of work and, again, the role of family caregivers, all too often abandoned to themselves by the institutions, which play a fundamental role. [[Applause]] As I begin to conclude, I want to mention two more issues. On 3 December, on the occasion of the International Day for People with Disabilities, a research on the perception of disability was presented, commissioned by the City Observatory and curated by SWG SpA. Among the many interesting data that have emerged, I mention only a few. Italians believe that little or nothing is done by the State to ensure the real inclusion of people with disabilities, that the press speaks little about it and, again, that the services provided by the municipalities are insufficient. The general perception that emerges is that people with disabilities are forgotten by the state, by the media, by the services, that they are a bit - let me say - of the invisible brothers, how invisible their needs are. Fortunately, there is an atmosphere of solidarity and sensitivity, but unfortunately there are discriminatory conducts, prejudices and even indifference. The same research tells us that only 19 percent of those interviewed consider the immense issue of "after us" - the future of disabled people after the disappearance of their parents. I could mince other data from that perception research, because the picture that emerges is important. Minister, you know better than anyone today that the road is long. I want to tell an anecdote. There is a lifeguard who in his bathing establishment in Tirrenia has invented a simple handrail to climb over the sand, a problem that also affects many elderly people and not only the disabled. This lifeguard did it, on his own initiative and inventive, and ended up in newspaper articles. He wrote, telling what he had done, to President Mattarella, who praised him and invited him to present the project to the relevant offices. In short, this lifeguard, with a simple idea, became a hero, having done a simple and very useful thing. Well, I take this example, of which I was informed by the person concerned, really as a metaphor: the road is long but it is not impossible. Today, all together, even with our vote in favour, we take on a huge responsibility. We cannot betray expectations and trust in the dramatic conditions of fragility of the disabled and their families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u76	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, the draft law we are about to adopt is an important and ambitious reform to give answers and strengthen the protection of more than 3 million Italian citizens. An ambition that can be seen in the will and work of the Government, also in interrogate with the European Union in the framework of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; an ambition that has been seen in the work of colleagues in the House of Deputies, who not only approved the bill unanimously, but also made important changes to the text. This same ambition, a moment after the approval of the delegation, will have to put it in writing the legislative decrees and in the implementation of the principles of delegation, which need not only implementing decrees, but also other reform measures and other resources, in order to strengthen the protection of people with disabilities. From tomorrow we will all be called together to do, in twenty months, what we have not done in twenty years and we will only do so if we are aware of the limitations that have slowed down the extension of protection for people with disabilities in recent decades. The first limit is that often Government, Central State, INPS, Regions, Municipalities have different interpretations of the same criterion or have different ways to take responsibility for their responsibilities. We are therefore looking forward to a strong coordination and simplification work in the direction of the delegation. The second limit is that our welfare system often leaves families alone, as a social shock absorber of last resort, compared to the needs of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, the pandemic, this enormous stress test of our social state, has also demonstrated this, which has often left the last and the people with fragility alone. These cover holes, these instruments, both in the form of transfers and services, we will have to strengthen them in order to strengthen the promises and commitments that we take with this delegation. The third limit is that we too often leave the third sector alone in giving help and support to people with disabilities. We must not remember the important role of the third sector only in our conferences; we must redesign processes and services so that there is strong and effective subsidiarity. The cornerstone of the delegation law is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I stress the word "rights"; it is therefore a Convention on the rights of persons, not only on the criteria of access and the determination of the conditions of disability. We need objective criteria, certain, graduated according to the subjective condition of need, to make those rights enforceable; but our compass must be the rights of the people. Rights that we want stronger and we want for everyone. Rights above all to independent life and full social, educational and working inclusion. Rights to effective access to services and transfers, which promote the autonomy of the person. We therefore welcome a new definition of the disability condition consistent with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but above all that multidimensional assessment of disability aimed at carrying out the personalized and independent life project. Again, adjectives are important: personalized and independent. We need a personalized project, so rethinking our health, social, work and educational services to provide truly personal-centred and independent responses with a network of services and a program aimed at achieving the goals of the person according to his or her wishes, expectations and choices. In order to really do this, to prevent the personalized and independent life project, which is at the heart of the bill delegates to our examination, from remaining in the charter of our laws and not reaching the lives of people, we will need tomorrow three ingredients: adequate tools, adequate resources and simplicity. We will need appropriate instruments. As my colleague Mrs Iori pointed out in the general discussion, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan allocates important resources on the deinstitutionalisation of the responses to be given to people with disabilities, as well as on telemedicine and neighbourhood services, but those multi-annual resources are not enough, because we must not only make investments, we must rethink the processes and services, also investing in the exploitation of human resources that must bring those services to people's lives. Ambitious reforms and new resources will be needed to expand the network of services and we will need in that independent life project to clearly identify human, professional, technological and economic resources that can be activated to implement that process, which is really a personalized project that helps people access appropriate rights. The second ingredient that we will need are adequate resources: for this reason it is also important that the writing of legislative decrees and the other steps that follow to the approval of the delegation law be coordinated to the maximum with another commitment of the Government, that is the organic reform of non self-sufficiency, because there you can find other resources and because also in redesigning a part of our welfare system there will be places and criteria of verification and take charge to be rewritten, that they will have to be coordinated with those present in the delegation law that we are preparing to approve. The third ingredient is simplicity: we need a real responsibility, which includes for people with disabilities and their families a single interlocutor on the part of citizens; not a censor, not a mere guardian of public spending, but a guide that promotes access to rights. It is for this reason that on the agenda that has just been accepted, with a favourable opinion from the Government, with our colleagues Laus and Fedeli we wanted to ask the Commission for a commitment to implement legislative decrees only in the face of a clear assessment of the resources that are needed, so that there is a step forward in the rights and that no acquired rights of the existing audiences are affected. For these reasons and with this awareness I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the bill delegates and I reiterate our commitment to ensure that the ambitious principles contained in this delegation truly reach the lives of people, putting at the centre not so much conventions, strategies and plans, but people, their needs and their dreams. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u79	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are about to vote on is addressed, as has already been said, to an important part of the population, including at the numerical level. According to Istat data, there are more than three million disabled people in Italy, equal to 5.2 percent of the inhabitants. Limited participation in work, reduced social and cultural life, repercussions on families that support the care of a family member with disabilities, deep territorial differences between North and South regarding the provision of services and assistance: these are the worrying photographs of a country that wants to meet the challenge of the PNRR. The fight against inequalities and the full implementation of the principles of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities have animated the parliamentary confrontation for a true cultural and social revolution that allows the person with disabilities to be the protagonist of the choices that concern him, with individualized life projects, school inclusion and in the world of work. In the strategy of combating inequalities there is the seed of democracy and its quality is measured in order to affirm the principle of values, recognizing welfare and public spending a productive aim to guarantee human rights that are not negotiable. This measure represents an ambitious challenge, on the rugged path of the fight against inequalities, to sew up the fragrant plot of civil and social rights of every person who, because of his fragility in the adventure of life, will find himself living a condition of disability even only transient. Inequality is always the result of a political choice that must be opposed, because it prevents a shared vision of the future and weakens democracy, which has the duty to remove obstacles to the participation of individuals as equal members of society. Today we are dealing with disability, which is a central topic in political commitment and which must affect everyone. It should be remembered that the fight against inequality also affects other sectors of the population to which policy should be more vigorously concerned. The thought goes to migrants, workers forced to work precariously, workers fired with WhatsApp messages and more. Addressing the issue of disability means dealing with an extremely sensitive issue because it is necessary to overcome, first and foremost, the cultural barriers to building a society that leaves no one behind. The UN Convention offers a new approach to the subject, which is a true cultural revolution to be declined from a legal point of view. In this new perspective, disability is a dimension of life and not a lack. The reversal of perspective makes disability a dimension of life in which the problem is represented not by disability, but by the social and cultural context in which it emerges (disability, therefore, no longer has a personal framework, but becomes collective) and on which it is necessary to have an impact in order to change an unfavourable environment. The vulnerability of man is an indispensable ontological characteristic of the human being, as everyone has their own fragility and depends, for various reasons, on the other. It is, therefore, a human condition that imposes a mutual dependence that is nouned in the care and help of one another. Such reciprocity if, on the one hand, it reduces mutual suffering, on the other it enhances the abilities of everyone in a solidarity bond within a society in which substantial equality must be not a utopia, but mere normality. The measure opens up to this vision, in the knowledge that, until cultural barriers fall, it will not be possible to understand that the inclusion of people with disabilities represents a heritage of civilization and no rule will be sufficient to change the situation. The person, his rights and his dignity must therefore return to being the centre of gravity of the legislator's work, as advocated by the Constitution and by the work of the constituent Fathers. It is certainly not a terminological question: restoring dignity through law is a sign of civilization and our Constitution, always current, teaches, recognizing an indispensable constitutional principle, that the person is not his disability and that the latter - whatever it may be - does not draw on human dignity, which is the prerogative of every human being with equal and inalienable rights. It is, as you know, a principle contained in Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution, which assigns to the State the task of removing those economic and social obstacles that prevent the effective participation of everyone in political and social life. In a Constitution like ours, which is based on the syntagma freedom-dignity, which revolves around the primacy of the human person with its rights and their effective enjoyment through the intervention of the public power, this provision is inserted, which harmonizes the already important Italian legislative production (starting from the law 5 February 1992, n. 104) with the principles of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of 2006 and the Strategy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2021-2030. Persons with disabilities must be granted recognition of the condition, including through an assessment of the condition, which is consistent, transparent and easy, which allows the person with disabilities to exercise their full civil and social rights, including the right to independent life and full social inclusion. The principles of self-determination and non-discrimination are the basis for promoting the autonomy of the person with disabilities and their living on equal opportunities with others. It is in this context that the process of the measure under consideration began on 27 October last, when the Council of Ministers approved the draft framework law on disability, with the commitment to issue the implementing decrees in the twenty months following the entry into force of the norm. This is a draft delegation law which, as we already know, is part of the reforms envisaged by the PNRR. Among the most important contents of the delegation is the system of recognition of the condition of disability, in line with UN conventions. The new system, which will be the subject of the draft legislative decrees that the Government will present to Parliament for the opinion, is based on the multidisciplinary evaluation of the person, aimed at the elaboration of personalized life projects. The Government, in the preparation of legislative decrees, will ensure collaboration with the Regions and local authorities. In particular, in Article 2, where significant changes have been made in the amendment phase, a basic disability assessment is envisaged, distinct from a subsequent multidimensional assessment. The will highlighted in this text is to support in a coherent and concrete way the paths of autonomy and independent life, along the path of deinstitutionalization and thus avoiding forms of institutionalization in residential institutions and structures. Renewed attention to people with disabilities needs to be implemented across the board, with legislation tailored to family, student and worker and with an adequate allocation of available resources, which certainly must not be wasted, but which lack cannot be the reason for the failure to implement the measures provided for in the delegation law. We therefore welcome today's vote, which hopefully and probably will see Parliament vote in favour with a unanimous vote, as a happy and sometimes rare moment, when politics succeeds in reaching an agreement and enhancing synergies also with the government side of regulatory production. Therefore, for these reasons I am voting in favour of the Mixed Group and the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal components. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u82	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all it must be pointed out that the issue of disability concerns us all - all of us - not only because in many families there are people with disabilities, that is, people who suffer, because of health problems, serious limitations that prevent them from carrying out their usual activities, but because of the numbers that other colleagues have mentioned before me. In fact, there are 3,150,000 people with disabilities, that is, 5% of the Italian population and I must say that, reading European data, this 5% is a definitely understated value. There are nearly 1.5 million elderly over 75 years of age who are disabled and one million of them are women. This is why disability can affect everyone; even those who, up to a certain age, can carry out all kinds of activities, if affected by diseases related to seniority can see their autonomy or at least a part of it disappear. These restrictions concern normal daily activities, such as the use of public transport. Of course, a law of this importance addresses the issue of the disability of even the youngest people and the tasks for their families. Almost always the burden of ensuring an adequate standard of living for people with disabilities is in fact borne by the families and the family is facing all the problems related to having a disabled person in their home. The most marked families are those with the lowest incomes. Two out of three families, in which at least one disabled person lives, cannot afford any moment of distraction and no holiday, not even for a week. More than that, one in two families cannot face a sudden expense of 800 euros. This bill delegates the Government to challenge this theme to find solutions to support Italian families with disabilities. This is an important delegation that is wanted and entrusted to the Minister present here, Erika Stefani, who is our esteem and gratitude for how she has worked so far and for how - we are sure - she will complete this delegation. [[Applause]] Although it cannot be said that the Senate has had a lot of influence on the delegation law, we have followed the work of the House, where it has done an excellent work of liaison. The provisions from the Chamber have found the full acceptance of the associations and aim to achieve the full acceptance of the disabled in a society that is within their reach. A strong acceleration to this bill that we have been waiting for for many years has also come from having included an explicit reference among the reforms required by Europe and to be adopted within the framework of the PNRR of a framework law for disability and, in fact, from the first framework law in this matter has passed almost thirty years and many attempts to modify have been in vain. Over the years, many dowels have been placed with regulations for disabled people. I am thinking, for example, of the provisions on architectural barriers or those on access to the world of work, which are largely ignored, as we know. At last the delegation intends to put order to the many provisions come out in order scattered after the law of 1992 and to give an organic picture to all the provisions. The delegation also intends to verify how good and bad is in existing legislation by updating the regulatory framework and even some definitions that have now been exceeded and outdated. The delegation will intervene on a regulatory stratification produced over the years and that undoubtedly needs to be revised, rearranged and made coherent. The result will be a law that will certainly give more protection and opportunities to disabled people. In fact, now at the centre of the legislative action of this delegation the person is put back in full exercise of his right of citizenship and in his right to choose on the proposals of the services or on the projects that concern him. [[Applause.]] The aim is to make effective the rights and protection of people with disabilities who suffer from health problems or serious limitations that prevent them from carrying out daily activities even independently. The revision starts from the verification of the various conditions of disability that must have international benchmarks to guarantee a greater objectivity of the assessments, but also from the overcoming of the update of the indicative table of the percentages of invalidity, replacing it with a progressive update of the definitions, criteria and multidimensional modalities in the determination of invalidity and, at the same time, safeguarding the rights acquired in previous evaluations, always guaranteeing the possibility of being able to take advantage of the best conditions and avoiding any penalties due also to the updates of the evaluation parameters. The institution of the figure of the National Disability Supervisor is also responsible for guaranteeing acquired rights, sometimes denied or compressed. This figure was established by an amendment by Forza Italia to the House, where several substantive amendments were adopted, among other things. I think it was Congressman Novelli who presented the absorbed law within this law delegation for disability reform. The new disability legislation is also the tool to define the strengthening and qualification of the provision of social services, but also the way to activate the simplification of access to social and health services. It is also the time to promote independent life projects also through the multidisciplinary evaluation units, as I said before, on the territories able to define individual and personalized projects. We hope that the criteria will now be set to overcome those which are still the differences in the provision of services between the different Italian regions. This must be your maximum commitment, Minister, because the situation in the South is different from that in the North, especially in the world of school. Let's go back to what we said before. The burden of ensuring an adequate standard of living for people with disabilities is often borne by families. Therefore, the theme of the different forms of assistance at regional level is also linked to the theme of caregivers, who often manage to bridge these differences. Through those who provide assistance you can really improve the family life of disabled people and those who are at their side. Everyday life for them too must have no limits; for this reason we have considered very favorably the inclusion of the word "sport" in the delegation under consideration. We know very well that in this case too, Mrs Giusy Versace has certainly been proactive. [[Applause]] In fact, among the projects of independent life, the right to sports practice and to play-motor activity has been included with a view to social inclusion and promotion of well-being. It will also be necessary, Minister, to provide for an update of the nomenclator within the essential levels of assistance (LEA) or the essential levels of performance (LEP) for the delivery of prostheses and advanced technology aids. The many examples of great paralympic champions must motivate us in this direction, in search of so many champions in everyday life who can find in sport a strong motivation and a stimulus for their lives. Now let us look with confidence at the legislative decrees that will have to give substance and translate into concrete acts numerous principles and guiding criteria established by this bill. Meanwhile, in declaring the favorable vote of the Senators of Forza Italia, we reaffirm so much confidence in his work, waiting for the enactment of the implementing decrees to take place in the next twenty months. Of course, the period goes beyond that of this legislature, Minister. So, in the light of the positive consensus on the part of the whole House, let us try to translate the twenty months into a much shorter period so as to arrive at the end of the parliamentary term or even before the end of the parliamentary term. [[Applause]] to have the decrees delegated. Minister, that would be a remarkable success for our families, for all of us and for the entire Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u85	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I begin my speech with a few words: inclusion, participation, project of life, dignity of the person. These are words - these - all too often used in the past and simply to fill the mouth with concepts that are certainly beautiful, but not implemented, not really understood or understood. Not only do I say this, but also many other colleagues in the House - and not in the League Group - have said that this text of the law is today a foundation stone that must be the foundation of a new construction; a construction that must lead to the true respect of all people. In this sense, I appreciated Senator Iori's reference when she said earlier that we should not talk about disabled people, but about people. We must put the person at the centre, which is what this bill does, and it does so in an epochal way, because we are the first European country to introduce the recognition of the condition of disability based on the 2006 UN Convention, transposed and ratified by Italy in 2009. We had to arrive at the end of 2021 to understand what should be simply a forced passage. I must acknowledge - we all must - the path that has been taken to reach this text, because Minister Stefani has taken a path that has seen the listening, with the observatory, of all the associationism that works within the world of disability. Taking this path, we have managed to collect all those fundamental elements that have led then to the extremely technical text of the bill that we are preparing to approve today. We introduce a new path; in addition to the passages contained also within one of the fundamental laws, namely No 104 of 1992, we are going to introduce a new path. We do not simply ascertain what is called "invalidity," we do not simply go to ascertain the condition of the handicap, we do not simply go to identify the ways in which it is taken over - a very bad term - the condition of disability. Let us move from an analysis of a problem to a solution. [[Applause]] This solution is right to prepare it with a personalized and participated project. We have all reiterated this centrality within the draft law under consideration. It is a project because we are talking about the future of the person; it is personalized because it is real and concrete, suitable for the individual; it is participated, i.e. it is not descended from above, it is not chosen by a Commission, but it is participated with the person living the condition of disability. In this way we give dignity to the person, the dignity of a project of life; in this regard, there will be work to be done on the law on the after us. It has been widely discussed and discussed about the prospects for reform at the National Conference on Disability, which has recently been held and has seen a great deal of technical and contentical participation, and which has given a basis for what will be the next work, in addition to this law. As for this last provision, they will have to follow the decrees: there are twenty months of great work and I appreciate - all of us appreciate - the fact that the Minister has said that these decrees will have to be written together, as has been done in the House for the first passage of this bill. The central theme - I repeat once more - must always be this: the right of each person to his or her own life path; a right that must always be guaranteed. In the context of the debate that has been held, I have also read many comments on social media in which it is repeated: that more money should be allocated for disability. I say it's true, because a reform is not done without the gas to put in the car. But it is also true that with this bill today we put fundamental hinges thanks to which resources can actually be spent instead of being distributed simply by rain. In order to ensure that this path is made in a correct way, I must also applaud the establishment of the National Disability Supervisor, which is a fundamental step to guarantee the rights of people; I repeat this again: the rights not of people with disabilities, but of people. There are many other contents which - I repeat - are extremely technical and many of them have already been examined. I would also like to emphasise the political fact that we are getting to today, which is probably the highest point of a more general political transition that we are going to analyse. Times have been limited, the stages have been forced and the passage has actually taken place in one House, but we who have followed the work that has also been done in the House, must acknowledge that the Minister and all those who have worked together have sat around a table. It is a lesson that we should all acquire and probably apply in other areas too, starting with the budget law, looking at us and listening to us more, in order to find more concrete solutions for our employers, that is, the Italian citizens. The fundamental political fact is that in the House the bill was voted unanimously, the work of the Commission was bipartisan and this must be acknowledged to all the actors who took part in the political process. As a representative of the Lega Group today, however, I can only recall a path started long ago, when in the Government Count I, then Minister Lorenzo Fontana, had already brought the Code of Disability to the Council of Ministers. A fundamental path had therefore already begun, and the League has always believed that the world of disability is a world that must be heard, understood and supported. [[Applause]] The Government Count II unfortunately put this step in a corner, but today, with the new Government and Minister Erika Stefani, we have completed a path that started already in 2018. In announcing the favorable vote by the Group of the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, I am proud to thank all those, regardless of the political color, who have allowed to achieve this political result. In fact, if you have read, as we have done, all the explanations of vote that have been made in the House, you will have seen that there is a common fact: they have set aside the will and the flag of the party and have stood before the people that we must help, to whom we must provide tools to ensure that their lives are real, together with us, within society, and that there are no discrimination and people of series A or B. [[Applause.]] 14.42 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u88	DI PIAZZA (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, kind senators, fellow senators, the fact that on 9 December the House of Deputies was given the first green light, unanimously, to the delegation law on disability, underlines how urgent Italy was regarding such a sensitive issue, which concerns the whole community. Like Movimento 5 Stars we strongly wanted the issue of disability to be an indispensable action to be carried out within the missions of the PNRR. The aim is to inaugurate the era of full, effective and meaningful participation and inclusion. In our country in 2019 there were 3,150,000 people with disabilities, 5.2 percent of the population. The elderly are the most affected, nearly 1.5 million over 75 years old. The ability to move freely is very limited among people with disabilities; mobility data for 2019 show that only 14.4% of people with disabilities move by urban public transport, compared to 25.5 of the rest of the population. The range of support provided by the network includes assistance to the person, accompaniment and hospitality, domestic activities, bureaucratic practices and health services. Welfare and the system of social transfers aimed at compensating for the lower income capacities of people with disabilities play a key role, often constituting a significant share of disposable family income. Thanks to social transfers linked to disability, the incidence of the risk of poverty among families with disabilities does not exceed that observed at national level. However, transfers are not sufficient to guarantee these families living conditions similar to the rest of the population. This is because of the additional costs, of a medical and health nature, caused precisely by disability. The draft law delegates, which is one of the key actions of the PNRR, to be carried out by 31 December 2021, therefore stems from the need to be able to represent an important goal in order to ensure conditions of equality and equal opportunities for people who face an objective and blameless situation and who are often victims of discrimination. In particular, mission 5, Inclusion and Cohesion, component 2, Social Infrastructures, Families, Community and Third Sector, of the National Plan, previews a reform constituted by the realization of a framework law of the disability, that will simplify the access to the services, the mechanisms of ascertaining the disability that will simplify the access to the services, the mechanisms of ascertaining the disability and will strengthen the instruments finalized to the definition of the plan of individualized intervention. From a first reading of the various points provided for in the draft law, it appears evident an innovative vision of the task of welfare of a State, which has the duty to pursue social inclusion and justice. In these years, we invoke a principle to be assumed as absolute: the centrality of the person. For too long, the legal system has neglected the absolutely discriminatory failures in the area of disability. At most, the diseases of the most scientific evidence have been medicalized, without leading them back to actions of substantial well-being. It must be said, with responsibility, that disability is often an extremely difficult condition to carry on, representing its needs. There can be a visible connotation of the disability itself and an invisible one, even more painful and complex to overcome: complex pathologies in the investigation phase, subjects with difficulty to verbalize their discomfort, new fragility caused by marginalization, vulnerability and new poverty. In this margin of suffering healthy and virtuous forces have been valiantly employed. They are those of families, of the third sector and of volunteering in general. Now we need new processes, which enable each person to be the protagonist of his or her own life, in a positive relationship to containers and communities. The debate that led to the drafting of this bill is full of methodologically and ethically innovative considerations and assessments. This has been noted by the associations and all the realities involved in disability, which have welcomed this process. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going further, however, by allowing me to stress that the adoption of the bill, for which today we express, like Movimento 5 stars, the vote in favour, will have a profound task for all of us and in general for all the social partners. Implementation. [[Applause]] Our yes is the assumption of a substantial and remarkable commitment: reciprocity. That principle that we are community if and as each of us takes charge of the welfare of the other. Let's say yes, therefore, not to an empty box ready to contain pain and discomfort to marginalize it or, worse, make it invisible. Dear colleagues, disability is everything but an extraordinary event. It is disease, need, fragility and vulnerability. It is a hostile curve of life, which overwhelms people and families, often without giving time to confuse too many reasonings and, even more, explanations about its meaning. Disability is surrounded by labile borders, which are at risk of being plunged into discrimination every day. Or it can be something else: a life of relationships and opportunities, in which the indispensable rights of each person are maintained high. I like to quote Amartya Sen and her idea of ability. Economist and Indian philosopher born in 1933, Nobel Prize winner for Economics in 1998, Sen theorized the ethics of skills: development consists in promoting all the human capacities that allow to be actually free people; each, beyond his own abilities, must be able to live a dignified existence made of relationships, rights and protagonism in the full realization of his own life and in the community dimension of the common good. Freedom and social justice are directly linked to development; the concept of freedom is linked to the concept of ability, that is, of effective possibility for the individual to exercise it, which Sen calls positive freedom. [[Applause]] It is the State, therefore, that must ensure that all citizens have the opportunity to express their abilities, enhance skills, and make sense of even the most burdensome disability. This is so that we can talk, rather than welfare state, about welfare society. What, then, will be the action that will give meaning and breath to the law? The delicate phase of the implementing decrees is the one that will measure the credibility of Parliament and the Government. Italy is home to law and has a remarkable vocation to solidarity. Coming to the conclusions, I therefore say that with the draft law under consideration we create the appropriate regulatory environment to guarantee the person with disabilities full citizenship, through the exercise of its civil and social rights, including the rights to independent life and social and occupational inclusion, in compliance with the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination. Moreover, the adoption of this measure would allow Italy to move closer to the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination enshrined in the 2006 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in order to guarantee full citizenship to persons with disabilities, ensuring that they exercise civil and social rights fully, including rights to independent life and full social inclusion. The Italy we want is the one that leaves no one behind, a country with more rights and less discrimination. [[Applause]] Expressing, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, the favorable vote on the measure under consideration, I hope that after the passage into the Senate, the Government will approve as soon as possible the implementing decrees in order to make concrete use of the innovations contained in the text. [[Applause.]] 14.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u89	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u92	De Bonis (Misto). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak in order to join in the mourning of the family members of Rossella Mastromartino the worker who died because he was hit by a bus at the end of his shift in the industrial area of Melfi, in the province of Potenza, where he worked in one of the automotive companies. Rossella was only 36 years old and was the mother of two children. It is a death that affects the whole Basilicata Region and that should indignant the whole country. The road on which hundreds of workers pass every day was completely in the dark. How do you even think you can die for that? What did it cost to equip that road with adequate illumination? Yet I have seen evidence from Melfi's workers that money had been provided to light the way and that for several months workers and unions had made known to the various institutions the danger of that route. A few days before, three other workers died in Turin. We are safe, but there are thousands of people working every day in poor safety and insecurity. A few days ago we were told that accidents at work increased by 8.1 percent from 2020 to 2021, from 366,000 to 396,000 cases. There's no pandemic here to hold. We have a moral duty to give the highest priority to these issues. Two months ago President Mattarella repeated this for the umpteenth time: the victims of accidents at work are people who leave home with plans for the future and the workplace must be the place from which we always return, the President reiterated. Well, what do we want to do to ensure that workers always come back from their place of work? What does the Basilicata Region intend to do to improve the conditions and security of the industrial area of Melfi? In this connection, I would ask why we should not speed up the procedure in the Commission for the draft law presented in the Senate for an ad hoc national prosecutor for accidents at work: why is that proposal not taken up again? I also ask why there is no tighter control over the funds that are being allocated to secure workplaces. That a worker dies because the road to her children's home was in the dark is unacceptable. So let us try to make jobs, not only safe, but also decent, where we can spend our days. We owe it to Rossella, we owe it to the three workers who died a few days earlier in Turin; we owe it to all our citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u95	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every day in the world, so many seriously ill people are able to save themselves by means of a compatible donor bone marrow transplant. Associations of bone marrow donors, including ADMO, strongly urge more institutions to inform and raise awareness of the need to commit to becoming bone marrow donors, a gesture of solidarity and love for others. A minimum effort is required of each of us, but capable of giving great results: typing ourselves, that is expressing the firm will to be available to another individual, our brother, who maybe lives in another part of the world, that we do not know, who likewise knows nothing about the potential donor. In this way we can give to those in difficulty or suffering from a serious pathology a hope in the future, a hope of life. For those who are ill with pathologies, especially haematological, the transplant of stem cells of the bone marrow represents the anchor of salvation to cling to, a real injection of life. One thing is certain: in a corner of the world, near or far away, there is a genetically compatible twin, representing a piece of a variegated puzzle in the life of anyone else. He who suffers or is sick, deep in his heart hopes that there will be a potential donor, his savior. Each of us can be and may become one in a more or less near future. All we have to do is make a promise, a small gesture: sign up for the register of bone marrow donors. Whoever does this will be able to say "I for you" will be there and create a chain of true solidarity. We really cut down the frontiers and save the life of a human being, a "mister x"; we give him a second chance of life, we give him a future. Always fight, never give up. The only effective treatment against blood disease, such as leukaemia, lymphomas, myeloma and haemoglobin disease, is bone marrow transplantation. Unfortunately, only one person in 100,000 is compatible. It is important to become bone marrow donors: you can save a life. To facilitate the spread of the culture of donation, I have presented a bill that provides for the establishment in our country of a national day of bone marrow donation, to raise awareness, care and involve. There are those who give with joy and, in that joy, there is his reward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-388.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, December 21, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.02 p.m.
