ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 30 December 2020. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a moving thought of closeness and condolence to the family, colleagues and friends of Senator Emilia Grazia De Biasi. A woman of brilliant intelligence and inexhaustible energy, Emilia De Biasi has been an authentic protagonist of the national political life of recent years. Municipal councillor in Milan, his city of adoption, deputy for two mandates, from 2006 to 2013 and, therefore, senator of the XVII legislature, Emilia De Biasi has always played his role within the institutions with great consistency and with great concreteness. As President of the Senate Health and Health Commission, he was able to gather the esteem and appreciation of all his colleagues for their impartiality and authority on every occasion, together with his constant openness to constructive confrontation. A strong and determined character, his, but also deeply human and sensitive to the many daily difficulties of those who are weaker or in situations of particular fragility. The same character that has supported and guided it in so many initiatives and projects undertaken, both inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms, to promote and defend gender equality, the right to health and culture as irreplaceable instruments of human growth and social progress. With Emilia De Biasi he leaves us a passionate policy, a courageous and enterprising woman, who has never stopped fighting for those ideals of freedom and human dignity in which he strongly believed. Remembering its figure and its tireless civil and political commitment, means above all keeping alive the memory of an example of life dedicated to the values of a mature, dialogue and responsible democracy, as well as the will to work well always and in any case in the best interests of the citizens. In memory of Senator Emilia Grazia De Biasi, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u7	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, thank you for your words and for the memory of Emilia. Many in this House have known her during the last parliamentary term and have been able to recognize in her an uncommon, intelligent, determined, passionate working woman. Emilia was a free woman, jealous of her freedom. He loved to form opinions by studying, reading and, if necessary, was not afraid to express unpredicted opinions, sometimes uncomfortable, which he held passionately, even risking to go over the lines. Emilia was a free, cultured, non-common woman who dedicated her life and talents to politics, to defending the Constitution, but first of all to her city, Milan, of which she was a city councilman and which has always been at the heart of her political and parliamentary activity. Next to Milan for Emilia there was the elaboration of women's policies, which was the guiding thread that marked his life and on which he left us so much. His other passion was culture, as you, Mr President, well remembered. For two legislatures in the Chamber it was reference on this subject, but, beyond the political sensitivity that led her to work to support culture and make it usable to all and all that thing, Emilia really understood culture, music and theatre: on this she had so much to teach and this sensitivity gave her the opportunity to cultivate so many relationships and to enter into relationship with worlds often far from politics. In this branch of the Emilia Parliament he then worked for an entire legislature as President of the Health Commission: he did so while discussing important and controversial issues. He held a difficult, but consistent and ultimately successful position on the story of Stamina: he did so courageously, defying the hateful threats that came to her. With the same determination he exposed himself to the no vax and supported the Law Lorenzin. Those who have known her cannot fail to remember these days, when the issue of vaccinations becomes central to defeating the pandemic, her commitment to this. Emilia De Biasi abandoned us soon, too soon, but she never lost a minute of her life to improve herself and look at the world. The last time we talked, she was excited, waiting to start a new cycle of chemotherapy, because her vision had improved and she could finally read. Emilia was like this, especially loved to nourish thought and knowledge. On behalf of the Democratic Party Group, I want to express to William, her husband, mother and brothers our closeness and condolences, telling them that we are proud to have worked with her and that the many things she has done and taught us will make her stay with us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u10	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I met Senator Emilia De Biasi at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, on the occasion of the inauguration of the Health Commission of which I was a member and of which he became President. From the very beginning I had the feeling that President De Biasi was an extremely kind and helpful person, but with a very determined character, at times blood and authentically interested in preserving and possibly improving our National Health System in its universality and fairness. Emilia De Biasi was also a fan of the Valle d'Aosta. For some years she attended the Municipality of Gaby in the valley of Gressoney and on those occasions I had the pleasure to accompany her to visit the social and health facilities of my Region, demonstrating her always a great attention to the provision of services in the territories, and to host it also at conferences in which she participated with competence and passion. I remember that, when we met here in the Senate, he greeted me with a "Bonjour," monsieur le senateur, as I am called from my side, with a rotating R that made French unexceptionable. I would like briefly to recall how decisive his political action and his role as President of the Health Commission were in making possible the adoption of important laws such as those on the reorganization of the health professions, the legislation on the safety of care for citizens, as well as on the professional responsibility of health professionals. I also remember the framework law on autistic spectrum disorders and the approval - as my colleague Mr Mirabelli has already mentioned - of the vaccine law, with the great battle on vaccinations that I had the honour to lead also to his side. As it happens, a very topical issue. I still remember very well the passion and competence of your speeches in this House. Dear Emilia, thank you for all these battles and for your commitment to a more just society in support, in particular, of the rights of women and the weakest and, above all, thanks for your friendship. Rest in peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u13	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, Emilia De Biasi was a cultured and highly intellectual woman. I remember that one evening, after very hard work in the Chamber, he dragged me to the other side of Rome to watch a play of theatrical experimentation. It was pouring rain, but she stubbornly dragged me there. She was spoken about books, movies, theater and travel. This passionate curiosity about life Emilia De Biasi transferred her to her political commitment. Sometimes, he expressed uneasiness for our political communities - who does not have moments of difficulty? - but it was always going on. She was always proactive and confident in wanting to change and transform the world for the better and restore the need for human relations to politics. We've been talking about this over the last few weeks. As a Member of Parliament and as President of the Health and Health Commission for five years - it has been recalled - his commitment has been for the reorganization of the health professions and for the health management. The text has become law. She has committed herself to the professional responsibility of healthcare professionals and to the early treatment arrangements. She was rapporteur and had to resign with suffering in order to facilitate the journey. The law was passed. On the measure on vaccines - it has been remembered - at first reading have been made changes to the text thanks to an in-depth investigation carried out by the Commission. The decree was converted into law. Let us remember his commitment to environmental pollution related to health and the possibility of cancer. If we want to take a lead in your presidency, we can talk about a dialogue between science and politics (in those emblematic years was the case Stamina). But now, even today, this issue is fundamental: science and politics. Then there is one issue that will seem trivial: the whole Commission was dealing with an assigned deal about overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. We, the Health and Health Commission, were waiting for you for a hearing in the context of an assigned affair on territorial medicine, as President of All.Can Italia, your last commitment, on the oncology of proximity. She said that we must conceive the patient at the heart of innovation, precisely because it is always attentive to innovation, with extraordinary curiosity. President De Biase will not come to the hearing, but we are sure of one thing: he gives us an arduous task, continue his competent and passionate commitment to culture, women, health and the common good of our country. Above all, for those who have had the gift of knowing her, I remember her profound humanity, even expressed with a laugh, with a sweet and high-sounding voice at the same time. This profound humanity of hers must infect all of us in our civil commitment, because we always remember her there, outside and inside the classrooms, with this profoundly human and competent attitude. What he has taught us, in the last legislature, who were at our first legislature; what he has taught us, even with minimal generosity, even in small gestures, even by acting in a certain way, for institutional attachment. To his family I too express, on behalf of the Italian Viva Group, deep condolences, to her beloved husband and to all those who have known her. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u16	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, it is very painful for me to remember Emilia, not only because we are talking about a loved one who is no longer there, but also because, as far as I am concerned, the memory of Emilia makes me live the memory of a common militancy and path, which have been important and fundamental in my political biography. I met Emilia many years ago and this knowledge has spread in a scheme, if you want, classic and traditional (or at least it was in the ancient political communities), that is, in a relationship between exponents of different generations, even if then separated us only twenty years. In short, I am referring to different experiences; when I met Emilia I was first a militant and then a young party leader, while Emilia had already accumulated a long political experience, on the territory and also at national level. But she was crossed by the awareness that one of the functions of political communities and parties should be to identify and select the ruling class and to make it grow, in a relationship between generations that had to be frank and dialectical. I say this with a smile, because those who know Emilia know what it means to have a dialectical relationship with her (using of course a euphemism). This relationship was always focused on the awareness that the ruling classes do not fall from the sky, but are the result of a patient and constant construction, a relationship and a comparison, even between exponents of different generations and different paths. I owe Emilia a lot from this point of view too. The previous speakers reminded me of this: Emilia was a courageous and determined woman, who informed her long political experience not only of a thesis that I share (the deep link between the sphere of civil rights and social rights), but also of the deep conviction that the same civil rights, which she has always dealt with, had first and foremost the characteristic of their indissolubility. She thought that there were no battles of women, no battles for LGBT rights, no battles for children, no battles for frailties, but that every battle lived of the strength of battles for others and that strengthening the rights of each one meant strengthening the rights of all others. This was his thought, this was his conviction and I believe that the debt we have with a personality, with a figure like that of Emilia is exactly this: to understand, in the new world in which we are entering, the importance of a reflection of this kind, which you naturally made live in the exercise of your parliamentary function and in your political initiative. We will miss Emilia, in the new world in which we are entering, that is, in Italy of the pandemic and in what we will have to build after the pandemic, because of the competence that you have acquired over many years, especially on the subject not so much of health, which may seem a sectoral reference, but on the theme of care in its complexity, in its articulation. He did so as President of the Health and Health Commission, but he did so in general in his battles, so his thinking, his initiative, his competence precisely in the difficult phase we are experiencing will be lacking. We will also miss that smiling smile and that overwhelming laughter that was pointed out every time we were confronted with her and that was the conclusion of any comparison, even of the harshest. Thank you Emilia, we'll miss you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u19	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). It is with great regret for her disappearance and with emotion that I remember Senator De Biasi. I had the honour of being Vice President in the last parliamentary term when you were President of the Health Commission. Together we did many battles, but real battles, sometimes of course also because of differences of opinion. I remember, on the early provisions of treatment, when I insisted that doctors should be given freedom of conscience. I will always remember a phrase from Emilia: "Women, culture, information, work." These are the four words that I have in my heart and that he defended without ever being afraid in front of anyone. In the beginning, in our Commission, we were sometimes a little disappointed, because Emilia was a very spontaneous woman and often her vehemence left us a little bit banned, but we soon learned to know her, to know her and to appreciate us. She was a real woman, she didn't know hypocrisy, you could understand her thought from her face. I still have the image of when, perhaps dissoning from the interventions of some of us, he would raise his eyes to the sky or arch his eyebrow and then I knew that my task was always that, past the storm, to act in some way as a firefighter. He felt the Health Commission as a family and played his role as President with great pride. I remember one day when in the hearing about the Lorenzin decree there was an audition that represented the no vax and that insulted all of us commissioners, giving us ignorant and sold, and President De Biasi suddenly interrupted him and immediately took him out of the Commission. Many things we carried out in that legislature, important topics, such as that on the early provisions of treatment, the law on vaccines, which has been remembered; after twenty years it was managed to complete the law for the reorganization of the health professions, and the Gelli law on the civil liability of doctors was completed, but it is still not very used, since there are, after four years, the implementing decrees. A very thorough survey was carried out on the sustainability of the health system. The results of this document are still today - indeed, especially today - very current. For this reason Emilia also received an award from the GIMBE Foundation for his commitment as a person who loved deeply and defended the national health system. I would like to remind you of your speech in this House during the debate on a motion on breast cancer, in which you said: how many women, including young people, could we have treated in good time if hospitals in the different regions had done what they had to do, that is to inform citizens and allow women to decide, with them and for them, diagnostic and preventive pathways starting from screening? Unfortunately, this is not done and we know it perfectly well. We cannot tolerate that the professional skills of so many doctors are humiliated in not being able to cure women because there are choices that decide to go in another direction and spend the money of prevention, otherwise, if not even, with serious problems even of legality. [[Applause]] I believe that we must make an effort on this, giving equal opportunities to women in the field of health. Starting with breast cancer and screening is a first step. This was Emilia De Biasi and we will always remember her with deep affection. On behalf of my entire Group, I express my condolences to her husband and family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u22	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I should also like to remind you now of Emilia De Biasi. I had the opportunity and the honour of being with you in the 16th legislature in the 7th Commission, so that I could grasp all aspects of your person: the aspect of the parliamentarians who deepened any measure, as well as your polemic vis. I remember, in moments of great tension, his acute ones, that I think are unforgettable for everyone. She was incredible and didn't give up because she always had to bring the confrontation of ideas to the end. I remember her always being very serious and responsible and the love that was also evident from the treatment of the various provisions; a great love for culture in any form of her, whether it was music, books, publishing or her rock blog. She was really multifaceted, with an extraordinary enthusiasm and a desire to live all the moments with great intensity. I think it was precisely this: the enthusiasm for life and its work and the desire to participate also in the battles for gender equality and against violence against women, which I assure you were then less easy than today. We have also discussed this subject a great deal. On other things we had a very different view, but respect and esteem never failed. I do remember her in so many moments. As we all know, in the end we live almost more with our colleagues in the Commission than with our family. Stacanovist you, always present: we lived five years together, all the holy days, in the Commission. It was a constructive relationship because, as has already been said, Emilia also loved comparison and there was always a way to communicate and learn something from one another, an attitude - this - that I like very much and I try to practice every day. On behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I would like to offer my condolences to the family and colleagues and friends of the Democratic Party, who with Emilia lose not only a friend, but a fundamental component, for how he wanted to live his political passion, 100%, but also all other aspects of life. It is a woman who deserves respect and the honored memory of this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u25	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, Senator De Biasi, who died very prematurely, was originally from my territory, having been born in San Severo, in the province of Foggia, but was adopted in Milan, as has been mentioned several times. In Milan, in fact, he lived more than forty years, during which his political commitment and in civil society was maximum. First militant of the PCI, to which he gave his contribution, for its transformation and for the construction of the PDS and then, gradually, until the founding manifesto of the PD. She was a city councilor in Milan for the PDS, twice deputy, in the XV and XVI legislature and then senator in the XVII legislature. His political commitment has been made clear on several fronts. In fact, he said: "Women, culture, information and work are the four words that I have at heart" and in fact his action has always been aimed at the defence of women, their rights, gender equality in every area, both in the family, work, social and political life. In the cultural field, his contribution was tangible, as evidenced by the approval of the Act on live entertainment, but also by the law on fair compensation to independent journalists, the reform of publishing, tax relief measures for cinema and the recognition of unemployment benefit for artists. As my colleagues have pointed out, she was President of the Senate's Health and Health Commission in the last parliamentary term and also in this field she made her active and concrete contribution, working to achieve important advances in civilization and respect for the dignity of patients. I am referring in particular to the anticipated provisions of treatment, an issue that in Italy is always particularly sensitive, the informed consent and the responsibility of exhibitors for the health profession. It also committed itself to the approval of the reform of orders and professions in the field of health, to the strengthening and modernisation of the National Health Service, to ensure its universality and fairness, especially with regard to the most fragile groups. It can be said with certainty that he has always worked for the valorization of what we could call the human capital of our National Health Service and to promote dialogue and comparison between institutions and organisations of citizens and patients. Precisely thanks to his unfaithful commitment to the health sector, he received, in 2016, the recognition entitled "Save our National Health Service" from the GIMBE Foundation. Some choices have divided us, as is normal and as happens in politics, but I can safely say that, with the disappearance of Emilia De Biasi, we lose a woman who has dedicated her life to others and politics, always attentive to the needs of citizens and to the respect and strengthening of republican institutions. I offer my condolences and those of the Group to which I belong to the family, saying that - yes, it is true - we will miss it very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u26	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 19 January. For today's sitting, the discussion of the draft law ratifying international agreements remains confirmed. At 3 p.m. tomorrow's session, the Minister of Health will make communications on further measures to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. Thursday 14 January, at 9.30 a.m., the inspection union will take place and, at 15, the question time, with the presence of the Ministers of Justice, the environment and health. In connection with the request for an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the recent events in Washington, it has been established that this will take place in the Joint Foreign Affairs Commissions of the House and Senate. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 19 January at 4.30 p.m. for communications by the President. The Conference of Leaders shall be convened on the same day at 3 p.m. Finally, the Leaders agreed to confirm, for the annual session of 2021, the senators currently in office in the Italian Parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u27	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 19 January: [[Tuesday 12 January h. 16,30 - Ratifications of international agreements - Communications of the Minister of Health on further measures to address the emergency from COVID-19 (Wednesday 13, at 15) - Inspection union (Thursday 14, at 9.30) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 14, at 15) Wednesday 13 " h. 15 Thursday 14 " h. 9,30]] ♪ ♪ [[Tuesday 19 January h. 16.30 - Communications by the President]] Distribution of communications time of the Minister of Health on further measures to address the emergency from COVID-19 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 37' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' PD 21' Mixed 19' FdI 17' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1944, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1598. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. (17.11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u29	Mr President, I am honoured to be rapporteur for this ratification of the Senate Act 1598 of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation C 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work, done in Geneva on 21 June 2019. The Assembly is therefore called upon to examine this act, which has already been approved at first reading by the House of Deputies, and in which the Parliamentary Act 1598 on the ratification of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at Work, adopted in Geneva in June 2019, was incorporated. It is recalled, first of all, that the Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work was adopted by a large majority at the 108th session of the International Labour Conference on 21 June 2019, on the occasion of the centenary of the creation of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), and that it was the result of a negotiation process launched in 2015. Composed of 20 articles, divided into 8 titles, the conventional text is an important tool in the fight against violence and harassment committed in the world of work, with the ambitious objective of protecting all workers and all workers globally, regardless of their contractual status. The Convention provides, first of all, a rather broad definition, capable of including not only physical abuse but also verbal abuse, as well as stalking and mobbing, violence and harassment, including gender, understood as behaviours and practices that cause, aim at causing or are likely to cause physical, psychological, sexual or economic damage (Article 1). I would also like to point out that the Council of the European Union is in the process of approving the proposal for a Decision COM (2020) 24, which expressly authorises the Member States to ratify the Convention in our examination, as some of the provisions of the Convention are covered by the Union acquis in the field of social policy and in the field of non-discrimination. Pending the adoption of this proposal for a decision, some countries, in particular France, Belgium, Spain and Sweden, in addition to Italy, have already initiated the ratification procedure. The bill of ratification consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that, from the implementation of the law of ratification, no new or greater burden must arise on public finances. A solid and clear legal framework is therefore emerging in identifying definitions of the various forms of exploitation, inequality and discrimination. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u30	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice so that you can listen to Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u31	AIROLA, rapporteur. We are about to ratify a truly useful instrument for intervening where, of course, in the countries that are members of the Convention, these facts of discrimination, with complaints to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), occur, until, in cases of crimes against humanity, we reach the International Court of Justice. In Italy we have an already evolved regulatory system, but imagine where there are no rules or controls. I am referring to those countries where entire productive sectors see a massive presence of women - for example, in textiles - who suffer discrimination of all kinds (of pay, are mobbed, exploited and raped), or where a child's life is worth nothing when he is forced to dig in the mud in mines or to collect technological waste in huge landfills. We have the courts, the laws, the workers' associations. They don't have anything. Today it is important to approve this Convention not only in order to improve ourselves, but because many other countries ratify it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only in the home, but in the workplace, a woman, a man and a child can die without killing them. In conclusion, it is proposed that the bill also be approved for them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u32	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u35	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Denise was nineteen years old when she was employed in a shipping company and began to suffer harassment from her employer, seventy-five years old, with advances that she promptly refused, even though she had been progressively demended and had also suffered contractual deterioration. Denise was stronger than her murderer, found the strength to report, found out that her employer was also harassing her colleague, but finally, after about ten years from the complaint, the court of Pistoia established the guilt of the man and compensation for both employees. It is for the many Denise in Italy that today's vote takes on an ethical value. The Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work, adopted last June on the occasion of the centenary of the creation of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), is rightly defined as a historic judgment because it represents a concrete step forward. First of all it provides a broad definition of violence and harassment: a definition that includes not only physical abuse but also verbal abuse, as well as phenomena such as stalking and mobbing, because it makes explicit reference to violence and harassment based on gender that can cause physical, psychological, sexual but also economic damage. And then it addresses the protection of every worker, regardless of whether he is employed or not, regardless of his contractual status. It includes, therefore, also volunteers, people during periods of training, apprenticeship and apprenticeship, and it also protects those who are looking for a job or workers whose relationship has even been extinct. Another positive thing is that violence or harassment are also recognised as occurring outside the workplace, in a physical sense, thus including all those conducts that occur, for example, during business trips and social events, as well as in the context of communications that take place via telematics. An important aspect, given the increase of gender-related approaches or harassment that take place on new social media such as WhatsApp, less formal but equally insidious. The Convention also provides for a wide range of obligations for States and, to follow, also for employers, who are no longer only in the possibility but have a duty to ensure the protection of all persons in the working environment. So that's enough with the attitude of turning a blind eye or making a smile. With the ratification of this Convention, in essence, we are promoting a reversal of the cultural approach and the collective approach to the phenomenon. Among other things, obligations for the different Member States are also foreseen in relation to the introduction of incisive powers for labour inspectors and other supervisory authorities. Today it is estimated that 80% of women who are abused by their work colleagues or by their leaders often do not report or talk about it just for quiet living or fearing scandals or retaliations. Moreover, these violence often affect precisely those who are most precarious in the world of work. It's a change, a breakthrough. There is no goliardic attitude to hold. It is a question of promoting a cultural revolution that makes a change of pace possible. That is also why it is important today to ratify this Convention. I hope that the vote will see the various political forces compact, unlike what happened in the Commission, because we cannot talk about interference with national jurisprudence. When it comes to protecting the dignity of workers and workers, there must be no motivation or excuse because the only interference is that which treats the body of others as if it were an object of its own property, at work and outside. Against this attitude we are going to put an end to it today. That is why I firmly declare the Italian Group Viva-PSI's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u38	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at the Workplace, adopted in Geneva on 21 June 2019 at the 108th session of the General Conference of the same Organisation, is organized into 20 articles and divided into 8 sections. However, I would like to point out that there have been eight years of debate before it was approved. Perhaps this approval is also considered, if not an even historical date, an important watershed in the face of the elimination of violence and harassment in the world and in the workplace and also the opportunity to adopt new international standards in this area. Another distinguishing feature that I would like to highlight is the approach. This is in fact a broader approach, that is to say we come to the conclusion that violence and harassment at the workplace affects everyone, men and women, unfortunately in the awareness and statistical evidence that women are affected in a greater and disproportionate way; the data even speak of cases tripled compared to men. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, ma'am, can we ask for some silence? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, also considering the importance of ratification that is being discussed, if you cannot remain silent, I ask you the kindness to maintain a tone of voice that allows those who intervene to be heard by those who want to hear. Please, Senator Rauti. RAUTI (FdI). Thank you, Mr President, also because this is not just about women and, if it were, we should all be interested. I was just saying that the Convention has an approach that looks at all, men and women, although in the well-known statistical evidence that women are affected more and more disproportionately. The Convention and its international standards are also the result of comparative studies of national laws and practices on violence and harassment at work in as many as 80 countries. We are therefore faced with an extremely complex and complex international regulatory framework, with a very strong architecture. It is important to remember that the Convention is an international treaty with binding force, of course in countries that decide to ratify it. I remember two to begin with. Recommendation 206, in conjunction with the Convention, is clearly not binding, but is important to the extent that it contains guidance on how to apply the obligations of the Convention. Another element of reflection: the Convention calls into question violence and harassment in the workplace, but it brings with it and tries to unravel even a complex mass of issues and implications, as has already been mentioned. I am talking about mobbing, stalking, psychological violence, the issue of worker protection and how to prevent and deal with violence and harassment. There is also a further step: a broad interpretation is meant precisely because one looks at a set of behaviors, practices and acts intended to cause or even threaten physical, psychological and economic damage, or that is - it is expected - a sexual offence or gender violence. Another far-sighted element of the Convention is that it addresses all types of workers, i.e. not only employees, and not only workplaces - I would like to stress this - but also those which I would like to define as non-places, which, however, are linked to the world of work, i.e. business trips, work training courses far from the usual workplace, but also media and information such as chats, sms, e-mails, WhatsApp messages, i.e. all those tools that, as we know well, can be used invasively, pervasively and I would also say distorting, becoming aggressive, offensive and threatening through the transmission of videos, images or even text alone. That is why the Convention makes an effort and includes them. Before I finish, I want to go back to the statistical evidence I started from, referring to the only investigation we practically have, no matter how dated. I am referring to the Istat survey on the safety of citizens in 2016, which also addresses the issue of violence and harassment at work and sexual blackmail. I would just like to refer to one of the many figures provided by Istat: 1.404 million are women who have suffered physical harassment and sexual blackmail in the workplace during their lives, i.e. 8.9 percent of the female workforce. The above survey also notes that in the three years 2013-2016, more than 425,000 women, or 2.7 percent, suffered these episodes. It is clear that there are a lot more data when we talk about violence outside the workplace (the ones I mentioned are confined to the workplace). The cases relate to physical contacts, requests for sexual services or availability in exchange for promotions or the granting of a job or advancement, promotion or the threat of dismissal. The Institute itself notes that in more than 80% of cases the victims do not report and tell no one what happened to them: only 0.7% of the victims get to report. Certainly, however, all the victims interviewed by Istat emphasize that these episodes have changed their lives, both personal and work, because many of them have been fired or quit, or have not been hired or have been asked to do so. The Brothers of Italy Group, both here in the Senate and in the House, will therefore vote in favour of this measure. We do so with conviction - although, in the folds of certain premises, on something you might also disagree - because this is one of those cases where you have to take a position: either you stand on one side or you stand on the other, without mediation any. [[Applause]] There is no mediation. Brothers of Italy are therefore firmly opposed to harassment in the workplace that affects women and men; against, point and that is all. Let's just add one final consideration. Precisely because all this is important, we hope that we do not limit ourselves as a country, like Nation Italy to ratify the Convention, but to follow it in its application, accompanying it with a series of measures that consolidate the application of this principle, because at the same time we must also attack other issues, such as the unequal pay for equal work carried out; we must allow equal access to jobs and careers also to women; we must ensure that motherhood is a free choice and not a conditional choice and I could continue, because the matter is complex. I really end with a reflection: let us take advantage of this opportunity to overthrow an ancient prejudice that, as is known, is something that precedes judgment, which is based on experience and knowledge. Prejudices are a vice of the mind and we hope that this opportunity will also reverse the prejudice used to always give these faults of harassment to the employer and to the entrepreneur. Statistics, in fact, tell us that this is not the case: harassment also takes place between colleagues; sometimes they are superior and, sometimes, they are subaltern. Let us, therefore, remove ourselves from this prejudice and always do justice to everything and to everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I think today is a very important day and frankly I regret that this House is quite distracted in discussing the ratification of this very important convention. Some of my colleagues have rightly spoken of an historical fact, because it is a great step forward that is being taken with the ratification of an international treaty. We are talking, in fact, about the Convention of the International Labour Organization which commits the countries and is immediately operational. It is a solemn commitment that our country is making at this time going to finally approve and ratify the Convention itself. Compared to other conventions, it has been possible to have it approved fairly quickly, since we in this House are used to ratifying treaties signed many years earlier. Above all, we have to deal - and this is the very important element of this ratification - with the data that my colleague mentioned earlier. The European Union Agency's investigation of violence against women says that one in two women claims to have suffered some form of sexual harassment at work. In 32 percent of cases the harasser is a colleague, a subordinate or a superior and these data are dramatic. Even more dramatic are the data of the 2016 Istat survey, from which it emerges that in Italy there are 1,400,000 women affected by forms of harassment, violence, blackmail and other with which they exercise a sexually motivated blackmailing power. At the time of the interview to women, when selected, the first thing that is asked is whether they intend to make children. This is the other element of deep discrimination. Very often the interview is accompanied by blackmail, allusion and a fairly explicit way of blackmailing. This happens during the recruitment phase, but also during the working career, with all that is necessary. 32.4 percent of these blackmails are repeated daily; 17.4 approximately once a week; 29.4 sometimes a month and 19.2 rarely. I wanted to quote these figures to say that these blackmails, these harassments, these stalking and mobbing operations that manifest themselves in many forms during their working careers have very serious consequences. 33.8 percent of women had to quit their jobs, with a career waiver, while 10.9 percent were fired, were put into a cash-out or were not hired. It is therefore a very heavy operation. If we then read this data on the basis that in our country we have a very high employment deficit of women (18 percent less than in men's employment, which unfortunately, as we know, in these times is what it is), we are faced with a really dramatic figure. 81 percent of the victims interviewed never talked about it and less than 1% then had the courage to denounce what happened or managed to find some form of socialization. That is why I say that ratifying this Convention today is of fundamental importance, because thanks to it we have a real instrument in combating the violence and harassment committed in the world of work, we do a fundamental act to support women and anyone who suffers such blackmail in the workplace and above all we give them the possibility and the strength of respect for dignity. The Convention provides a rather broad definition of harassment and violence, so as to cover the wide range with which these elements are exercised, which obviously include not only physical abuse, but also verbal abuse, stalking, mobbing and all behaviors and practices aimed at - or likely to - causing psychological, sexual or economic damage. Let's think about the data I told you earlier about how many women are forced to change jobs and quit or have been fired. The scope is precisely the protection of workers and workers, regardless - this is fundamental - of their contractual status, in a world of work so jagged and changed, in which there are now the most varied forms of work. It includes volunteers, people in training, trainees, apprentices and those who are looking for work: there is therefore a very wide range of protection. The Convention provides for a wide range of protection and prevention measures, with the obligations on States, and therefore on our State, to adopt all internal provisions defining violence and harassment and all measures to prevent such harmful conduct, including from the point of view of compensation and repressive action. This means that it requires States to ensure effective access to justice for potential victims by setting up appropriate remedies. The Convention devotes particular attention to gender-based violence and above all seeks to do a work of political and cultural battle and formation; this is the other fundamental element. Today we are about to approve - I am sure, unanimously - a very important ratification, which is very important. Of course, we all hope - because I believe there is everyone's conviction on this - that we will be able to make the best use of this instrument, including the obligation for the State to adopt all acts and legislative provisions that will allow the system of protection to be extended and, above all, prevent it. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of Mr Leu and Mr Misto's Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u44	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country, 9% of women have suffered physical harassment or sexual blackmail while working. It is 1,404 million women, while 1,173 million women have declared that they have been sexually blackmailed during their careers to be employed or to maintain their jobs. If a woman suffers sexual blackmail, 80% of the cases do not talk about it in the workplace; almost none report it, yet at least 70% of women who have suffered sexual blackmail consider it very or quite serious. 33 percent of them have voluntarily changed jobs or given up their careers because of sexual blackmail at the workplace; 10 percent have been fired or put into unemployment funds. This is the framework in which the International Labour Organisation adopted, with a very large majority of Member States, the Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at Work on 21 June 2019. Work is the place of the rights and emancipation of people and I am proud that Italy will be the first country among 187 members to ratify this Convention. Italy is a country that already provides anti-discrimination rules and to protect workers, but today we approve a framework of reference and a program of protection decidedly innovative. I would like to emphasise the international nature of this regulatory framework. We are now used to associating the word "globalization" with the loss of rights and the worsening of working conditions. We want to reverse this equation and that there is a globalization of rights against the exploitation of people, a globalization no longer driven by the market without rules and outside the cooperation of States, which has all too often led to a loss of human dignity and has caused social tensions and mistrust in the relations of citizenship. It is therefore the moment of globalization of the rights and dignity of the person, with his or her freedoms and with the right to freely choose his or her own living conditions and future. Violence and harassment in the workplace are violations of human rights and this type of violence, which results in physical harassment, verbal harassment and blackmail, unfortunately it is still covered by omerty, silence and lack of solidarity, much more than in other cases - already censorable - of violence. As I said, almost 90% of the women who suffered did not report it. It has already been told by colleagues who have preceded me what are the main innovative contents. Firstly, an extension of the definition of violence or harassment, but above all of the place: that of work is not only the physical place of the establishment, but it can also be the home or a place of travel and - be careful - in Covid era, at a time when a lot of teleworking is done, when smart working is used, there has been an increase in violence both in the homes and through the IT media, so this is very important. There is an obligation on the Member States to prescribe and on the employer to take preventive and repressive measures, and there is an obligation to ensure access to justice, as well as greater involvement of labour inspectors. Our country, in fact, as has been said, does not come out of sight on this issue. I would like to mention two issues for all: in the 2018 budget law, we introduced the ban on demise, dismissal and transfer following a complaint of sexual harassment, as well as the nullity of the wrongful dismissal or demise of the complainant, as well as, of course, the ban on discharge in white. I would like to mention, among the many legislative proposals of my Group, two draft laws by my colleague Fedeli and my colleague Valente dealing precisely with the issues of protection and anti-discrimination in the workplace. Sexual harassment and blackmail are rooted in cultural models, so the school is again the main field of contrast on which we must always invest and engage for a different awareness and belonging to cultural models. The main cause, however, lies in the imbalance of power between those who act violence and those who suffer it. I would like to recall the words of Guy Ryder, Director-General of the ILO, when he says that these rights must be put into practice in order to create a better, safer and more dignified working environment for women and men. I want to conclude with a very last thought. We talk a lot about investment and work in this difficult phase for our country, for all European democracies and worldwide. Investing in work and its quality also means investing in its dignity, which is a very important factor of social cohesion, belonging and redemption of people, because it marks the relationship between the person and the community and it is also and above all from this that it passes being citizens and not subjects. For these reasons, the Democratic Party's vote will of course be in favour of this ratification, but it will above all be a strong and firm vote of commitment to legislate on these issues and fully implement the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u47	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Airola and the previous colleagues for their comprehensive report for their speeches on such a sensitive subject, which warms the sensitivity of each of us. In fact, I believe that it is a principle of civilization that we are defending at this time and that it has found sensitivity in the legislator. I am therefore convinced that, in the end, this House will finally see the expression of a unanimous vote. The ratification of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation for the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at the Workplace which we are about to approve, however, is, in fact, already fully recognised in our legal system. I would remind you that in 2006 the Code of Equal Opportunities for Men and Women was approved in order to combat all gender discrimination: this is a primary standard for ensuring equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in all areas, including employment, employment and economic treatment. [[Applause]] Article 26 of the abovementioned Code laid down, inter alia, an equalisation between sexual harassment and gender discrimination. The fiscal law, for the three-year period 2018-2020, amending the aforementioned Article 26, also provided for specific protection for those who act in court for having suffered sexual harassment at the workplace. Since 2009, the crime of persecuting acts, which punishes stalking conduct, has been introduced into the penal code. I want to remember that Forza Italia was the protagonist in this battle [[Applause]] and in the same way, more recently, it has been in the revenge porn one, with the presentation of a bill that we have tried to promote and that has been taken up in many aspects and articles. Certainly Parliament does not consider its role to be exhausted on such important issues, such as equality of treatment without distinction of gender and that of the concrete removal of obstacles in order to allow any individual to participate fully in the economic, political and social life of our country. Today we are finally going to approve the bill of ratification and enforcement of the International Convention in title and we will be the first to do so, out of 187 countries. These are the reasons why, also on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I voted in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u50	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure concerns the authorisation to ratify and implement the Convention adopted by the International Labour Organisation on 21 June 2019, with the aim of eliminating violence and harassment in the world of work. It is important to clarify that, as a Group, we share the Convention's noble objectives, because eradicating the problem of harassment and violence of all kinds from the workplace must be a primary objective for a civilised country. The importance of the issue of work is the beacon of our political activity. A healthy country is a country that works and, for this reason, any attention that can improve the protection of workers in its working environment is an objective to be pursued. However, this does not preclude us from expressing, as we have also done in the Commission, some doubts as to the effects on Italy of the arrangements for implementing the Convention within our own legal system, which are currently not entirely clear. The text provides for a comprehensive framework of obligations for the Member States, starting with the adoption of internal provisions defining violence and harassment in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and requiring employers to put in place all measures to prevent harmful conduct, up to the general obligation for the Member States themselves to take the necessary measures, both preventive and repressive. The Convention will then be subject to the monitoring mechanism provided for by the International Labour Organisation, first of all through the regular reports submitted by the States. A special mechanism is also provided for, allowing a Member State to submit a complaint to the Organisation against another State which has not ensured the effective implementation of the Convention. I therefore wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether there is a risk of opening up a new ground of conflict between States, which is based on judicial struggles, which instead hide real will to attack, at international level, a country or a government that is not welcome. It should also be considered the power of complaint which is granted to the Board of Directors of the Organization itself and even to individual delegates at the International Labour Conference, making it possible to activate, on their own initiative, a procedure which can lead to the creation of a Committee of Inquiry, which is responsible for drawing up a report containing, where appropriate, recommendations for the State concerned. The dispute may also lead to a judgment of the International Court of Justice, thus opening the way to a new compression of the national sovereignty of our country. Mr President, in conclusion, there are, therefore, elements of concern, which I have had to express and share with my colleagues. As has already been said in the preamble, we are not opposed to the principles that the Convention promotes, but we have doubts about their translation into practice. Despite these elements of uncertainty, given the shared objectives of this Convention, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u53	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, I must say that when a distant and somewhat confused echo of the great women's movement Me Too arrived here in Italy, the reaction of our country did not make me particularly proud. In fact, it was preferred to get lost behind gossip and voyeurism and to be able to review if that actress or that other one were actually worthy of credit, ending up going after casarecci media processes in the talk shows or on the rotogravure, instead of focusing the problem and its impact. This impact is, to say the least, disconcerting. Harassment, violence and sexual blackmail at work: how many women are victims? It is even difficult to estimate it, because there is no specific crime and there has never been a regular and constant monitoring of this type of violence. To give us an idea, we need to use the only existing Istat investigation, which dates back to 2016. The findings are worrying: in fact, there are 1,404 million women who, during their working lives, have suffered physical harassment or sexual blackmail at the workplace. They represent 8.9% of workers, including women seeking employment. So let's talk about one in ten women. On the other hand, there are 1,173 million, 7.5 percent, women who, during their working lives, have been subjected to some kind of sexual blackmail to get a job, maintain it or achieve progressions in their careers. That is not all, however: the best thermometer to get the pulse of the situation is another figure, namely that, in 81 percent of the cases, the woman affected by such behavior does not talk about it with anyone at the workplace. Not to mention the complaints: only 0.7% of the victims of blackmail have filed a complaint with law enforcement. Why, in the face of such a vast phenomenon, are there so few complaints? For quite obvious reasons: the fear of not being believed or even being guilty, of losing the place or that everything is in vain. Can we blame them? I don't think so. Just think of the striking case that occurred last summer, when the president of the transport company Lucana, Cotrab, even though he was tried and sentenced with a final sentence to two years and six months for sexual violence against an employee, was then re-elected by the same consortia. That woman was part of that 0.7% of the victims who find the courage to denounce, challenge the fear of losing their jobs and not being believed and face a long trial. The perpetrator is convicted, but then everything risks being thwarted by a subculture that normalizes and trivializes sexual violence at work. Luckily, the wave of general indignation has given thought to restoring justice, convincing the guilty to resign. The episode shows that the current instruments are not enough to counter this odious phenomenon. I share the concern expressed, among others, by the Foundation's studies on labour consultants, which underlines that the harmful effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on women's employment, such as increased precarious working conditions and the consequent economic and social hardship, can contribute to further exacerbating the phenomenon of harassment and, above all, blackmail at the workplace. I would remind you that already in 2019 the feminicide Commission - of which I am honoured to be a member - dedicated on 25 November of that year precisely to combating violence and harassment at the workplace, stressing that work is a universally recognised right and, however, that work is unfortunately still a place of inequality between men and women. We therefore welcome the goal of today's ratification of the ILO Convention, which states that violence and harassment constitute a violation or abuse of human rights and recognizes the right of all and all to a world of work free of violence and harassment. We also hope that, as indicated by the Convention itself which we ratify today, this Parliament will adopt specific national legislation as soon as possible. There are draft laws filed by several colleagues, both majority and opposition, to regulate this specific case of crime, violence and harassment in the workplace: I hope that the examination can be started soon. I would remind you, however, that the armed forces are also a place of work. Women have been part of this for twenty-one years now; it is therefore no longer possible to procrastinate, at this point, the introduction, even within the penal military code, of the specific crime of violence and sexual harassment. Here again, there are draft legislation on this subject which is waiting to be approved, including one specific to my first signature. We hope that we will never again have to hear - either outside or in this House - that if a woman is the subject of unsolicited sexual attention, it is because she is provocative, not because he is a stalker. [[Applause.]] or - worse - that, if a woman has obtained a job or promotion, it is because she has given herself to the right people. We put the shot back in the right direction and learn to distinguish who the victims are and who the torturers are. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u54	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 1944, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 1598 is therefore absorbed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1222. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u56	Mr President, the House is today called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the exchange of notes, signed by Italy and the Swiss Confederation in April 2017, for the amendment of the bilateral convention dating back to 1986, relating precisely to fishing in Italian-Swiss waters. First of all, the 1986 bilateral convention is the regulatory instrument that Switzerland and Italy have signed in order to ensure the optimal management of the fish stocks of the Italian-Swiss lakes of Maggiore, Lugano and Tresa rivers and, in particular, to promote the development of categories operating in the field of professional fishing and sport fishing, as well as to contribute to the defence and improvement of the aquatic environment. The exchange of notes under consideration brings an amendment to the Convention in order to adapt it to the changed environmental situations, to the increased body of scientific knowledge, to the emergence of new problems and to the need to make the legal order provided for by the Convention more agile. The bill of ratification consists of four articles. In particular, Article 3, as amended following the opinion of the Budget Commission, lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that for the activities resulting from the exchange of notes the resources available to existing legislation, without new or increased burdens for public finance and that the competent administrations implement the law with available human, financial and instrumental resources. The measure does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u57	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u60	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of the draft law before our examination and ask for permission to submit the text of my speech to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u63	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of the bill of ratification in our examination and the subsequent one.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u66	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of my Group both on ratification in our examination and on the next one. With no grounds for incompatibility, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u69	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of my Group. Good work has been done on the fisheries sector. In view of the fact that the bill on fishing poaching in inland waters deposited by Senator Bossi, which concerns fishing itself, has passed into the deliberations, I hope that, in addition to the Convention of 19 March 1986 on fishing in Italian-Swiss waters between the Italian Republic and the Swiss Confederation, it will also pass to the House and become the law of the Republic in favour of fishing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u72	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group on the bill of ratification in our examination and the next one.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u75	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on the bill of ratification in our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u76	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u77	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1958, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u78	Mr President, the ratification of our examination concerns Protocol No 15 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which established the Court of Strasbourg in 1959, and has the aim of making significant changes to its functioning. Since the Court has been successful and has been increasingly relied on over the years, it has been flooded with measures. There are many causes that in some way need to be thinned: they are about 60,000, of which 3,000 concern Italy. The purpose of Protocol No 15 is to simplify and streamline the procedure. In fact, it makes quite significant changes. The point is that Italy, out of the 47 countries that have set up the Court of Strasbourg, is the only country that has not yet ratified it. The amendments that I list in a very brief way concern the preamble in that it is recalled that not only the Court, but also the Member States, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, have the possibility to intervene with appreciation and greater room for action in the implementation of the provisions of the Convention, always under the supervision of the Court. He then spoke on the subject of the selection of the judges of the Court, providing that they could not be more than sixty-five years old. The major changes concern the ability to make the Court work better and consist in simplifying the process, for example by reducing the time period for the European Court of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms from six to four months. Rules are also inserted to make it more difficult to use the Grand Chamber, so as to avoid more appeals than are possible to deal with. In the same way, the condition of admissibility of an action is partly changed by extending the Court's margin on the extent of the injury suffered by the applicant. The draft law provides for only three articles concerning the authorization to ratify, the order of enforcement and the entry into force of the measure. There are no public finance charges and there are no profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and international obligations. In conclusion, it is proposed to approve the bill by the Senate Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u79	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u82	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, by announcing the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of this draft law, I would ask you to allow me to submit the text of my speech to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u85	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, I am voting against the ratification of Protocol No 15, which - as the rapporteur has pointed out - amends the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In particular, we announce our vote against because Article 1 does not convince us that - as Senator Alfieri has reminded us - it inserts a further period to the preamble to the Convention; to be more precise, it inserts a new "considered". If you read this "considered", you realize that it - on the one hand - adds nothing new to what is today the case law of the Court, that is the principle that national jurisdiction can also deal - and there would be no need - with ensuring respect for the rights and freedoms defined in the Convention, obviously in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. And nothing new about that. What, on the other hand, is in the "considered" and that we do not like is what follows, that is, the prediction - perhaps not all of you have read it - that national jurisdictions must operate: "[...] under the supervision of the European Court of Human Rights [...]. We are voting on a principle that subverts all the Italian constitutional jurisprudence enacted until today. I would remind you that Italian jurisdiction is sovereign, especially in the area of fundamental human rights, so we do not accept the principle that it - which, I repeat, is sovereign - should operate under the supervision of the European Court. And that does not convince us for many reasons of a constitutional order, but also of a political order. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you - for example - of the recent ruling of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) on Article 41-a: a very sensitive matter for Italy, because these are measures that have cost the lives of important magistrates, starting with Falcone and Borsellino; measures that have been weakened by a ruling of the European Court which, in words, has scandalized everyone - except today the majority voting - and which further subject us to its control. Article 41- bis, which has been weakened by the ruling of the European Court, is the fruit of sacrifices of entire generations, which has been fundamental to the fight against crime and the mafia in our country. [[Applause]] The ECHR has called it into question and we, instead of contesting this, give it even more control over Italian judicial activity. This is not only the point: in the matter of surrogacy, gay adoptions and what should be understood as a family, we are very far from the principles which the European Court of Human Rights wants to impose on the Member States belonging to the Convention, in accordance with an ideology which certainly comes from the countries of Northern Europe, but which is foreign to the Latin countries and of the Greek-Roman tradition, of the Christian religion and of Latin culture such as Italy. For these reasons we do not agree to kneel further to these principles, and for this reason we firmly declare our vote against them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u88	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the vote of the mixed group in favour of this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I remember that Senator Alfieri announced the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u91	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the critical aspects of the measure we are considering, which could harm the autonomy of national jurisdiction - which, moreover, has already emerged at first reading in the Chamber in the debate that took place and which, nevertheless, have not been taken into account by this branch of Parliament, I declare the vote of abstention of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u94	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I very quickly announce our vote, which we confirm in accordance with the one already expressed in the House: the Lega Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in abstention on this measure. I would just like to stress a few points, and I do so very briefly. In a rather surprising way, the bill in the passage to the House has undergone a change, in the sense that in the first passage two protocols were foreseen, while today we are ratifying only one. Thanks to the work of the oppositions and the League this bill has been reduced to the ratification of a single protocol. It is a practice that I have always disputed: I have done so since the last parliamentary term and I continue to do so now. Things change and maybe they will change in the future, but I don't know. In any case, I shall continue to vote accordingly on acts of this kind. It is clear that - as has already been said - the act under consideration, the amendments made and the amendments tabled introduce a worrying supranational drift, especially in the legal field, on issues which are, on the contrary, purely our own, strictly close to our jurisdiction. We are very concerned about some of the changes that have been made, which we do not agree with at all, so I confirm our Group's abstention vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u97	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, as has already been announced, I confirm the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars on the bill of ratification in our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u99	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u100	GIARRUSSO (Mixed). Mr President, I really urge my fellow Members to reconsider their vote on this measure. We, with the experience gained in the Justice Commission, have seen the damaging effects of the ECHR's interventions within our judicial system. To continue to carry out - as we want to do with this Treaty - and to reiterate the subjection of our judges even to the control of the ECHR is a wrong and very serious act. The ECHR has weakened and questioned the cornerstones of the fight against the Mafia; it has shown very serious gaps in the knowledge of the Italian system itself, when it confused it with a common law order in the famous and unfortunate Contrada judgment, erroneously believing that criminal law was of legal creation; which, if repeated in a university room, would result in the immediate end of the examination of the poor student. We now want to reiterate in a treaty that our judges must be subject to the scrutiny of such a body, the shortcomings of which have also been highlighted by my Group. I recall the interventions of representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars in the Chamber, which are part of international bodies, who have intervened heavily and clearly on the judgments concerning article 41- bis or life imprisonment. So my vote will be against. I call on my fellow Members to reconsider and expel this act from this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u101	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u104	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). We are at a critical moment in the life of this legislature. There are winds of storms that accumulate and there is a position that I believe witnesses more than any other how this Government has not lived up to the expectations of its parliamentarians. I am referring specifically to the relationship between the questions tabled and the answers received. I simply want to give two figures representing the balance sheet of my work. I have tabled 41 oral questions and received 6 answers; I have tabled 64 written questions, thinking that it would be easier to get an answer, and once again I have obtained 6 answers, which corresponds to less than 10% of all the questions asked and all the questions asked. If we take into account that questions are one of the most important instruments with which the individual Member brings to the attention of the Minister a problem emerged in the territory, in the life of an association, in the life of a person, this gives the idea of the deep disinterest with which the Government took charge of one of the most typical manifestations of the work of the Member. I therefore ask the answers at least to the last questions tabled, which concern - for example - the abolition of funding for neonatal screening for children; home care for older people; the case of children who are separated from families. I will give the numbers - as they say in jargon - to the competent bodies to get the answers, but it is the style of work that is really indecent. It is not possible for a Member of Parliament to take charge of the demands of his territory to bring them to the attention of the Government and the Government does not in any way regard this as a qualifying point of his work. I think that many Members know that in London, in Parliament, the Government is required to respond within two weeks. We are talking here about months, if not even about the beginning of the legislature. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u107	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, in commemorating the intellectual Leonardo Sciascia on the occasion of the centenary of his birth, I cannot hide the admiration and affection that I feel before such an exalted personality. I believe that I also interpret the thoughts of many Sicilian colleagues present in this House, in homage to our "sicilitude," as he called it. Leonardo Sciascia: a great Sicilian intellectual unfortunately little understood in life, but who does not stop being an illuminating source and guide even in our days. His anti-vegenza exposed him to fierce criticism and only time made him understandable to the most, even by those who at the time felt directly impressed, especially understanding that his activity as a writer was contiguous to that of journalist. It was the extreme propaggine in the land of Sicily of illuminist thought; restless investigator and above all attentive to the recovery of the context, as his favorite author, Alessandro Manzoni taught him. Of the intellectual illuminist he had the confidence, the analysis conducted in his own way with a bitter irony; an intent that he knew how to decline in a thousand variations in his works and articles and always having as purpose the profit. He was an intellectual of whom today there is a deep lack and necessity, far from conformism and any compromise, as well as free from all courtesies. Sciascia tells us facts that are never what they are or at least are not just what they are: they are metaphors, apologists to understand much more. Talking about mafia in times when it was denied existence and grasping its transformist and camouflage capacity within society was truly an extraordinary intuition, considering the times in which it was published on the day of the owl in 1961. And a few years later, in 1963, the Anti-Mafia Commission was set up. He spoke of anti-mafia in the late 1980s, just when the anti-mafia was up all over Italy. I refer to an article published in the "Corriere della sera" on 10 January 1987, dedicated to the relationship between politics, popularity and anti-mafia, in which he explained how anti-mafia can become a formidable tool for career development, obtaining public consent and obtaining credits. Of this Sciascia also makes a sort of archaeology, starting from far away and precisely from the work of the prefect Mori, sent to Sicily by the fascist government to resolve the military manu, which earned him the advancement of his career. He then arrived in his days, revealing the danger inherent in the anti-mafia, of which the most serious is to resort to it to have extraordinary powers and momentary suspension of the rule of law. For Sciascia, the real challenge was to win the mob with ordinary instruments, without indulging in authoritarian drifts or delusions of omnipotence. His hope, which I make my own, is that in an era like ours, characterized by extraordinaryness, we can restore as soon as possible a climate of normality and that only with a moral victory that will involve us all at both individual and institutional level we will be able to win the mafia and certainly not - and not only - with authoritarianism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u110	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of myself and the whole House, I wish to express my full solidarity and closeness to the mayor of Pomigliano d'Arco, Professor Gianluca Del Mastro, for the vile intimidating act he has received. The envelope delivered, containing a bullet inside together with an intimidating letter asking him to resign for his good, represents an act of violence that has the same value as a personal physical aggression. Of course, we respect the investigative work the law enforcement forces are doing. Very often it happens that those who play a role in the interest of the community are subject to pressure and miners' actions, because the path of legality, transparency and renewal is a difficult path, dotted with pitfalls and obstacles. But those who work in the interests of the citizens and the community do not have and must not be afraid and is, as it were, vaccinated against episodes of cowardly arrogance. I reiterate my full solidarity with Mayor Del Mastro, whom I invite to continue his institutional activity with a high head. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u113	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention to a matter of national importance which took place last Thursday in my elected city, Ferrara. I am talking about the offensive letter at the National Museum of Italian Judaism and the Shoah (MEIS). Beyond the trust due to the work of the Forces of Order, which are investigating to understand whether it is the isolated action of a single person or whether it falls within a more complex framework, I think we cannot but express not only indignation, but also concern. In one case as in the other it is confirmed that in 2021 it continues to snake and sprout hatred, of which the Jews have always been easy targets. The MEIS produces initiatives of great interest and has done so also in 2020, a difficult year, promoting remote reviews to spread knowledge of Jewish culture in Italy. He hasn't stopped his business, far from it. The missive to the MEIS, had also been sent by a bastard, has therefore a precise meaning; the destination is not accidental, but precise, as are the offences contained. It must be said that in Ferrara there is a historic Jewish community, perfectly integrated, with which there is a deep, intense and continuous dialogue at all institutional levels. Ferrara is the city in which our Senator Liliana Segre came, on January 11, 2019, enchanting a audience of 700 students in a packed theater, telling her experience of surviving Auschwitz. And it is the city in which the administration, today a leghistic management, wanted to grant it in the same year the honorary citizenship, for the deep bond, woven over time. Ferrara is the city of Bassani, Finzi Contini and the city of MEIS. What is not negligible is that the missive was sent in the vicinity of the Day of Memory, January 27, the anniversary dedicated to the victims of the Holocaust, in memory of the opening, January 27, 1945, of the gates of Auschwitz. Other facts have however occurred elsewhere: last Sunday the presentation of the book "The generation of the desert" by the Roman author Lia Tagliacozzo, an event promoted by the Jewish Studies Center of Turin, was interrupted. Hitler's images have been introduced, insults of the type "Hebrews" to the ovens, "We will burn you all," and I stop here. It is therefore a scientifically organized attack, exploiting the new digital tools. It is difficult to think of chance, especially when neo-Nazi pushes are waking up everywhere in Europe. I quote Germany, for example, and not only that. At Capitol Hill's attack last Wednesday night, there were neo-Nazi groups. We are witnessing a revival of hatred, a typical phenomenon in times of discomfort and social malaise, when ideologies take root more easily, because they sink and cement themselves in the dissatisfaction and frustration of the people, to whom an enemy is presented in order to favor the struggle of one against another. If Jews have always - as I said just now - been an easy target, the pandemic crisis we are experiencing is fertile ground for cultivating and instilling further fears. I therefore ask all those present to monitor, supervise and distance themselves from such episodes, which cannot be treated as minor, just because they have no devastating effects, because that is not the case: among the effects there is the risk of the emulation they generate. The confidence in the Forces of Order must be accompanied by a constant campaign of awareness. I should like to end by pointing out the words of the President of the EMIS and the Director: The ignoble and cowardly act only increases the determination and tenacity with which the museum conducts and will lead the mission assigned to it by the Italian Parliament to keep alive the memory, to fight against anti-Semitism and to educate the new generations to the principles of equality and brotherhood that our Constitution calls us to pursue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u116	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am going to talk about the issue, of national importance, of car-fluff waste, namely the terminal part of the processing, recycling and differentiation of car-waste. In other words, these are fabric parts, foams, shock absorbers and other types of material. National legislation provides for this as a final rejection, but in other European countries the waste from oil processing is reduced to a minimum, as it is used as fuels, for the high energy value. I therefore hope that the same solution will be found in Italy, either by making it unnecessary or by reducing the volume of landfills. I want to talk about a dump. In Verona, in that of Sorgà, in De Morta, the request was made, in respect of the Veneto Region, to build a landfill, which occupies a total area, in the project, of 455,000 square meters. The waste will come 65 percent from a company in Castelnuovo del Garda and 35 percent from a company in Lainate. Already during the examination of the previous law the budget, in December 2019, raised the question before Minister Gualtieri, during the hearings, finding no kind of response. The Municipality of Concamarise, in the province of Verona, in which I am honored to carry out the office of mayor, has expressed its no, as reported in the daily newspaper "L'Arena" of 11 February 2020. I met the owners of the company involved, who explained the project without providing any written documentation: just words. They have now introduced themselves to this community. After the uprising of some regional politicians and MPs of the Democratic Party in relation to the project in question, I would ask you to consider, together with the rest of the Government, planning at national level. There are incentives for cars at the tax level (electric cars and hybrid cars, with the return of the used), which make it possible to increase only this type of waste, which has no other possibility than to end up in landfill. Therefore, the problem must be solved upstream, not downstream, on the regional territories. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u117	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-290.ana.u118	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 13 January, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.50 p.m.
