ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved the timetable for the Assembly's work until 21 October. The agenda for today's sitting provides for the discussion of the Update Note for the 2021 Economy and Finance Document. In order to enable the Budget Commission to complete the examination of the measure, the sitting will be suspended until 1 p.m. It is recalled that on tomorrow and Friday morning the Senate House will host the G20 meeting of Parliaments. Next week, starting from Tuesday 12 October, at 16.30, the following measures will be discussed: decree-law on the crisis of enterprise, from the session of Tuesday 12 if concluded by the Commissions; ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs; bill establishing the understanding between the State and the Association Church of England; European law 2019-2020 with related reports on the participation of Italy in the European Union; decree-law on the operating modalities for the elections of 2021, where approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies. The schedule of the week from 19 to 21 October provides - in addition to the follow-up to the unfinished topics - on Wednesday 20, at 9 a.m. the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021. It was also established that the ordinary programming of the question time should resume from Thursday 21 October at 3 p.m. The Conference of Leaders will meet again next week to define the further planning of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 5 October 2021, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 21 October: [[Wednesday 6 October h. 9.30 a.m. - Doc. LVII, n. 4-a - Update note for the 2021 Economy and Finance Document]] * Motions for resolutions on document LVII, No 4-a (Note to update the 2021 Economic and Financial Document) will have to be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. On Thursday 7 and Friday 8 October, the Senate Assembly will be engaged in the 7th Conference of Presidents of the G20 Parliaments. [[Tuesday, 12 October h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2371 - Decree-Law n. 118, Business Crisis (ends on 23 October) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Drawing of law n. 2060 - Understanding with the Association Church of England - Drawing of law n. 2169 - European Law n. 2019-2020 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) and related document LXXXVI, n. 4, and document LXXXVII, n. 4 - Programmatic and customary relations on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 117, Operating methods of electoral consultations 2021 (where approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (ends on 22 October) Wednesday 13 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 14 " h. 9,30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 117, Operation arrangements for elections 2021) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Amendments to draft law No 2169 (European Law 2019-2020) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 7 October. [[Tuesday 19 October h. 16.30-20 - Following unfinished topics - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 (Wednesday 20, 9 a.m.) - Immediate questions pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 21, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 20 " h. 9-20 Thursday 21 " h. 9.30-20]] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 4-a (Economy and Finance Document Update note 2021) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 22' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2371 (Decree-Law No 118, Corporate Crisis) (Groups 5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 22' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2169 (European Law 2019-2020) and related documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 22' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 117, Operation arrangements for elections 2021) (Groups 3 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5 IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5 IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 13.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u6	I inform you that, at the request of President Gasparri, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been authorised to convene this afternoon during the sessions of the Assembly which do not include votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 4-a. The rapporteur, Senator Conzatti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u8	Mr President, today we are about to vote on a resolution on one of the country's two main economic and financial programming documents, namely the Update Note for the 2021 Economic and Financial Document. NADEF has been drawn up on the basis of the Public Accounting Act and provides for all aspects of the legislation and fundamentals. NADEF is normally an arrangement document in continuity with the DEF, but this year the framework records a macroeconomic reference far better than that of the DEF, especially thanks to the removal of social restrictions, thanks to a collective behavior that has allowed Italy to be among the first States in Europe for vaccination rate and also thanks to the use of the green pass, which has allowed the almost total resumption of all activities. Of course, the framework driven by domestic demand and international trade presents risks which the Parliamentary Budget Office, which also, of course, validated the trend macroeconomic framework, has highlighted. Among these risks, there are first and foremost those related, of course, to the theme of the pandemic. We know that in Italy and Europe the vaccination rate is particularly high, but a quarter of the world's population has not yet been vaccinated; therefore, overall, the risk of variations cannot be prevented, nor the risk of exogenous variables and, consequently, also on the economy. A further point that has aroused the attention of the forecasters concerns inflation, the increase in prices on raw materials and semi-finished products and also a shortage in the supply of labour that, according to the trend, will not support, if not adapted, the investments provided for in the next budget law and also those of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. On the supply side, social distancing has done a great deal; so has the increase in consumption, which has been released after the high saving rate of households and businesses and the high investment rate, driven not only by the perspective of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but also by the tendency to invest and to have excellent confidence in the future of companies. As regards the Update Note, the trend macroeconomic framework therefore shows a significant increase in gross domestic product by more than one percentage point higher than the DEF forecast, and now equal to 6%. Gross domestic product absorbs in its forecasts the investments and measures of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and is at levels - even in the 2024 perspective - much higher than the historical trend that, unfortunately, we know for Italy to be stagnant. With regard to the policy framework, public finance will continue to be highly expansionary, certainly throughout 2022 and 2023, with a large support to households and businesses to ensure that growth is fully recovered and that there is a consolidation of growth even after the recovery of the fall (we remember almost 9% of GDP) caused by the pandemic. High growth was also supported by public investment and much by private investment and household consumption. In NADEF there are therefore forecasts of public finance from which results also an improvement of the net debt, that in trend phase will go to 1.2% of the GDP at the end of the horizon, that is in 2024. Some data also on specific relevant issues such as the tax burden. We know that tax delegation was approved yesterday by the Government, which aims to revisit in a substantial way various aspects of national tax law. In 2021 the tax burden will fall by about 0.9 percentage points and then stabilize in the following years and gradually shrink again. We naturally hope that the effect of the tax delegation and the legislative decrees that will be implemented will meet the expectations of families and even businesses. With regard to pension expenditure - another relevant figure in relation to GDP - we know that it is expected to fall to 15.4% only in 2024, but we remember that pension expenditure was lower than this figure, i.e. 15.2% already in 2018. This important increase, perhaps difficult to sustain, depends on the pension measures contained in Decree-Law No 4 of 2019. As far as interest expenditure is concerned, we see an increase in the current year of 3.2 billion which incorporates, with regard to indexed securities, the theme of inflation, which at this moment is very important at world level, especially the highly developed countries, and also affects Italy. On this it is worth remembering that the forecasts show a rise in inflation of 1.2% in the first three quarters of the year, which in the fourth quarter, therefore on an annual basis, is expected an increase in inflation to 1.5%, but to date the government and the forecasters do not assume that this inflation trend is stable, so they do not foresee negative effects on the economy, finance and consumption. Returning to interest, beyond this year, they will be reduced to a level of 2.5% relative to GDP in 2024. We are aware that it is an absolutely advantageous level, especially for a country with a high public debt stock such as that recorded by Italy also following the pandemic. This must, of course, ensure that the policy direction is to do everything necessary to ensure that the low interest rates help Italy to bring back public debt towards a medium-term objective, within the horizon set by NADEF by 2030 and above all beyond 2030. With regard to the other fundamental points of NADEF, Mr President, we do not present a report requesting further deviation under Article 6 of Law No 12 of 243, because fortunately the development of net debt is negative and in any case gradually decreasing. Not only that; this development of net debt allows us to free up substantial resources for more than one percentage point (1.2 in the current year, 1.5 in the following years) such as to support and finance the measures that the Government intends to adopt in fiscal law, some of which will also be summarized in the majority report. I remember a few points because they are fundamental measures that are part of structural reforms that our country is waiting for: the reform of social shock absorbers, the first piece of fiscal reform and the stabilization of the single allowance for children to support the birth of the country (other since, besides the social aspect, it has a fundamental economic importance). In addition, we continue to support the evolution and transition of the entire productive and entrepreneurial sector with investments 4.0 and various guarantee funds. Let us remember that the policies and structural balances of public finance over the last 24 months have depended on the activation of the general safeguard clause at European level which has allowed the budgets of individual states to adopt emergency policies to support families and businesses, but the deviation of the medium-term objective will obviously have a deadline and therefore, as the European Commission has recently confirmed, the expansionary policies and the application of the safeguard clause will be in force throughout 2022 and is reasoning on 2023. The Government has repeatedly expressed great commitment to the fundamental objective in this respect, namely the renegotiation and rewriting of the Stability and Growth Pact at European level. While it is true that European economic and financial rules are absolutely essential, it is also true that those preceding the general escape clause cannot at all be applied at this stage. As far as public debt is concerned, it is also due to the increase in the denominator, hence the increase in GDP, much lower than the expectations of the DEF, by more than 6.3 percentage points, reaching 153.5% in 2021. In the 2024 horizon, the trend picture shows a ratio of government debt to GDP at 146 percent, while the policy framework, coupled with a slight increase in net debt at 143 percent. Mr President, in conclusion, it is clear that the fiscal consolidation strategy will be based mainly on GDP growth over the coming years, driven by investment, consumption and reforms of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is also clear that, from 2024, expansionary policy will have to become neutral, and then become a more prudent fiscal and economic policy, leading us to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio and to record primary surpluses. The objective, which has been made clear, for the realization of primary surpluses is a reduction in current expenditure and an increase in revenue, by means of a more careful fight against evasion, guided and delineated by the fiscal delegation, Mr President, I believe that the risks that the Parliamentary Budget Office, but also the Government itself, have highlighted several times and which I have summarized in my report, should not be underestimated. I would like to stress how crucial it is to implement the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the effects of which are absorbed in GDP developments, on which in turn the reduction of public debt depends. This requires not only a great capacity for government and local government, territorial administrations, but also social and political preconditions, a sort of stability within the country, certainly good leadership and certainly, without ever being called into question, a very strong European roots. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u9	Colleagues, the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today we are witnessing a very serious act, of which all the institutions we represent must be accountable to the Italian citizens. The danger that had been avoided with the previous Government, that of linking differentiated autonomy to the budget law, returns today with NADEF. In this way, not only does it limit the possibility for Members of Parliament to carry out the work of amendment, but it is even thought of preventing the Italians in the future from being able to resort to the repealing referendum. What is this, but a theft of democracy? I do not make a mystery of having always strongly opposed the differentiated autonomy, because there can be no real autonomy of the territories, if one does not start from a condition of equality, which, as it is before the eyes of all, is far from being realized. The North and the South are still separated by an abyss: in Bologna we have underground tracks for high-speed trains, which arrive and leave every half an hour; in Matera instead there is the station, but there are no trains. With the same population, there are 66 public kindergartens in Reggio Emilia and only three in Reggio Calabria. High technology, chemistry and manufacturing continue to be hijacked to the North, as witnessed by Minister Giorgetti's latest choices. The environment and health continue to be poisoned by the culture of pesticides, sludge and intensive farms, which in the North concentrate 70% of production. The southern youth, on the other hand, are forced to emigrate, carrying with them their treasure of skills and knowledge, because the south has been made the desert around them. Everyone repeats that the PNRR will now arrive, but it is a pity that, even with the PNRR, that 70% of resources, which according to the Brussels guidelines should have gone to the South, have lost weight to almost anorexia. This is not really equality or equity and, if there are no such conditions, differentiated autonomy inevitably turns into a camouflaged secession: the secession of the rich, a real catastrophe for the South and for the whole country. We want to undermine the principle of national unity, enshrined in the Constitution, and we parliamentarians cannot allow it. If differentiated autonomy were to become reality, Veneto, Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna would acquire some competences, distorting the structure and functioning of the State and emptying its powers. This would resize the capacity of the central institutions to organise and manage public policies in areas that are fundamental to the country's life. Not only that. The project of autonomy, as planned today, provides for a much more full-bodied redistribution of tax resources to the North, which would of course be at the expense of the South. The efficiency, well-being and equality of fundamental rights cannot be limited goods and the response to problems common to the whole country cannot be the allocation of greater autonomy and greater resources only to some territories, leaving others behind. It is not possible to break the bond of state solidarity, nor to cancel the principle of equality. The unity of national bargaining cannot be called into question. Health, social benefits, education and training, work and environmental protection must be guaranteed in all regions through national legislation and adequate resources. We define first the essential levels of performance (LEP). During the pandemic, the regional competence in the field of health has shown all its limitations and the lesson to be learned is that it should return to the State. The criterion of historical expenditure is not suitable to ensure uniform rights, as demonstrated by the existing state of public services. In Italy the serious inequalities in the use of essential public services show that the guarantee of fundamental rights is completely absent, or is conditioned by the territory of residence, with peaks of real drama in the Southern regions of Italy. It is therefore not possible to grant more autonomy to some regions without first adopting national legislation laying down framework laws on fundamental principles and guaranteeing in all areas the essential levels of performance and their standard requirements. What we are trying to do today is intolerable. We want to force a law to be swallowed by linking it to the budgetary maneuver to free the path from the annoying obstacles posed by democracy. Perhaps someone has to pay duty and is forced to grant this blessed differentiated autonomy, or perhaps some regions in the North do not really intend to send down the fact that it finally gets hands on the LEPs and that only a few crumbs arrive in the South. If the role I am honoured to play in this House with all of you in this House is of any value, I will do everything I can to ensure that this coup is avoided. For this reason, together with other fellow senators, we will be tabling an amendment to the majority resolution to remove the draft law on autonomy which is differentiated from the budgetary maneuver. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about numbers which, as we have said before, are incontrovertible if they are put in an exact manner. Government bills related to NADEF contain twenty-one reforms that we will have to approve by a vote of confidence or by raising our hands. Among these, there will be the famous tax reform, which in the last few hours has given some problem, as it is right that it is. I'll explain it my way. When we discussed tax reform in the Finance and Treasury Committee before the summer, we audited the former Minister Tremonti, who told us to be careful to touch the tax and to do so with caution, as it is probably sufficient to review the rates. I would argue that it would be enough to touch the rates, because for the rest the system is all in all well set. It has a cost, according to the Commission, of EUR 3 billion, although policy would have wanted EUR 10 billion in order to lower taxes. Everything happens in debt. I believe that nothing can be promised because everything we are doing in recent months, including the PNRR and the authorisations for budgetary deviations, is in debt. How, then, can we promise to lower taxes? In the work of the Commission and also in this House I have always argued that the reform of the land register is impossible at this time. It is dangerous to say that it is postponed and then seen, because this has a devastating effect on the growth prospects. And growth is achieved when there is optimism and freedom. Growth must be generated and it will be the only solution to the improvement and increase of revenues, because each euro of contribution certainly generates immediately 50 cents of return to the state in the form of taxes and benefits with the rest, according to the principle of multiplier. I repeat what has been discovered in recent weeks and which I had said in unsuspecting times: the environment and the green have some problem of compatibility with growth. The same with regard to the cost of raw materials: you make the discount in bills, but it is always a debt. Perhaps we should insist on environmental education not only at school, but at all, including ourselves. The opinion of the Parliamentary Budget Office on NADEF speaks of risk factors and lists vaccines. One wonders what a result they will have. I think it's time we just say, "You just gonna vaccinate." Everything else is boring, as Califano said. The opinion of the Parliamentary Budget Office also says that the growth trend must be sustained through investment. There are those famous 106 billion residual liabilities in the capital account, which are in the state budget and which, if only the rules were simpler, could probably come into play. Then there is the PNRR, which is 208 billion; in five years, from 2022 to 2026, it is 42 billion investments per year. Will we be able to perform it and generate a beneficial effect on growth? Will the conditions of Europe not be too exotic? Will we be able to commit the resources by 31 December 2023, having carried out the executive projects? There is some doubt, if we do not find the way to speed up, direct and give enthusiasm and optimism. One thing that I have never understood and that I submit to the Undersecretary, very careful, is how it is possible for the PNRR to raise GDP only by 0.4 per cent in 2021 and 0.9 per cent in 2022. A great deal of investment of this kind must necessarily lead to a much greater increase. However, investments listed in NADEF are expected to increase by 2.9 in 2021 and 3.1 in 2022. To me it seems very little compared to the previous years, that they were already stationary yards. Some projections (such as GDP, deficit, deficit-GDP ratio and debt-to-GDP ratio) have been revised, and there is, because GDP at the moment, for a rebound phase and in any case for the overall effects of the world economy, is higher than the 4.5 expected in the DEF. Public debt reached 2,721 billion in July, more attached and connected. That is the problem: before the pandemic, it was 2,350 billion. It is 350 billion, plus 200 million of the PNRR and the year-end breakout: this will have a monstrous impact if inflation does not exist. The ECB says that inflation will be 2.2% in 2021; it comes from America, from external facts and also from internal speculation. If it were possible, it would be better to control it. I think higher inflation than a point or a point and a half could water down the debt. I think politicians know, those who decide and do not say. In the opinion of the 6th Commission, there is a comment on the extension of the facilities for energy saving in buildings: it is called for the deductions of 110%, 90%, 50% and 65% to be extended at least to 31 December 2023, with the certainty of today's vote, and then carried in the budget law, because this will actually have a major psychological impact and a growth effect. I hope these things, reasoning with my own mind and with that of the people I know, according to common sense, fairness and maximum willingness, conscious of being a majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u13	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, which is an act that assumes the economic and financial scenario of the coming years. It is expected that in 2024 the negative effect of the pandemic will be prevented by an increase of different percentages over the years. If the future scenario turns out to be the most positive one, in 2024 we will fully overcome the negative effect of the pandemic. A stated intention in this act is that fiscal policy will remain expansionary until we have overcome the crisis and then become restrictive in a virtuous way, in the sense of being aimed at reducing public debt. Another stated objective is to achieve budget surpluses that are adequate to meet the target expressed earlier, i.e. the reduction of public debt. This could only happen if there is a surplus in the budget, to which the roads indicated are essentially two. The first concerns the reduction of public expenditure (and I am making a personal point: I obviously agree with everything I have said so far, because it is an expansionary and virtuous policy, so I have absolutely no emphasis on it. On the other hand, it is the path suggested for the achievement of the surplus to raise me some doubts, because it is expressly provided that the evasion must be countered, in order to arrive at an increase in revenue for the treasury. I obviously agree with the objective of combating evasion, because in this way we can achieve a fairer system, sharing taxes on all, and greater competitiveness for the system, because, not distorted by the unfair competition of those who do not pay taxes, it obviously generates for those who produce a benefit. What I do not agree with is that the fight against evasion and the result must be pursued in order to increase revenue. I do not agree with that because, in my view, the fight against tax evasion must be pursued in order to reduce taxes. In fact, it is shown that reducing taxes creates a positive effect for the economy, which as a further consequence also leads to an increase in revenue. This is what the theory says and also our ancestors wisely said that the good shepherd shears the sheep and does not flake it, because in this way it remains alive, productive and healthy, while by flaring it you get a greater result immediately, but then you get nothing more. This popular theory was then elaborated in a more scientific way by Laffer, who in his curve showed unequivocally, in my opinion, how an increase in revenue, exceeded the optimal tax level, leads to a reduction in revenue, paradoxically reaching zero revenue for the treasury in the case of taxes to 100%, because no one would work to pay only taxes. These two theories of popular and economic wisdom also had concrete applications, because Ronald Reagan, just elected President, in 1982, in implementation of Laffer's economic policy, reduced taxes, obtaining not only an economic boom for the United States, of which we all know history, but also at the same time an increase in revenue for the treasury, because in ten years it went from about 600 billion in 1982 to 2,000 billion in 1990, more than three times as much revenue, decreasing taxes. You don't have to go that far in time or place to find similar examples, because, remaining in Italy, you just have to see what happened when the dry coupon was introduced. The State's Accounting Office argued that we could not afford that manoeuvre, because it would reduce the revenue: instead, the consequence was that the revenue increased, because the contracts were all recorded. If we wanted to set an example backwards, all we should do is think about what happened when the superbolt was introduced. In 2006, in full ideological fury of the left, which was to make the rich weep - you will remember the manifesto with the inscription: "Even the rich weeping" - the superbolt was introduced again. The result was that revenue from that item went from 340 million in 2006 to the current 150, thus less than half, increasing taxes. Therefore, it has been shown that increasing taxes does not bring more revenue, but the opposite is the opposite: the same result, but the opposite path. We are talking about a viable road, which lays the foundation for solid foundations, which we now need, because, after Covid, another virus is about to expand worldwide from China. In this case, it is called Evergrande, a real estate giant, which generates, between direct and induced, 3.8 million jobs, has 305 billion debts and that last week, failing to repay a few million debts, had to be helped by the Chinese State. I remember, for my work, what happened in 2007 when the real estate bubble broke out in the United States: when I had to say "Lehman Brothers," I think anyone in this House would remember what happened. Paradoxically, we are in an even worse situation, because we are in a moment of energy shock and crisis of raw materials and inflationary. In the past, I have called for controlled inflation to reduce the substantial value of public debt, but the current one risks being an inflationary crisis without control. So now is the time to create solid foundations, and that is why we must certainly fight inflation, but reduce taxes and not increase them. Unfortunately, my time is up. I hope that the Government will take these indications into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u15	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing today with the Update Note for the Economic and Financial Document. As is apparent from the Note and as stated, among other things, at the hearing, both by the Minister Franco, and by the representatives of the Parliamentary Budget Office, the Bank of Italy, Istat and CNEL, the economic data are far better than it was possible to assume in the DEF that we approved a few months ago. GDP will increase by 6% compared to the previous year, with an increase of 1.5 compared to the forecast. Exports increase by 3%; domestic demand increases, which has been greatly strengthened, while the deficit - another very important figure - will stand just above 9, compared with a forecast of about 11%. GDP growth is also expected in the coming years and it is estimated that it will remain positive until 2024, which is the horizon to which we arrive with this Update Note, demonstrating an attitude to a consistent growth that in our country was unknown for decades, thus indicating that all the measures that had been prepared and approved with the Government Count II went exactly in the right direction. All these figures basically agree with both the Government, the Parliamentary Budget Office and the independent bodies, so we can say with reasonable certainty that our country is coming out of the serious crisis in which it ended because of the pandemic. We note with great satisfaction the extension of the superbonus to 110 percent until December 31, 2023, as we of the Movimento 5 Stars had requested loudly, but as required by construction companies, craftsmen, manufacturing companies and industry professionals. The figures for 2021 are exceptional: more than 7 billion yards have been opened; many new construction companies have been set up to meet demand and in this way they are responding concretely to the need for ecological transition and for a reduction in the consumption of resources, especially fossil ones, and for the production of climatic gases. We in the Movimento 5 Stars, which we have conceived, proposed and then approved this measure, believe that a further enlargement of the superbonus should be considered, both in order to achieve the objectives of climate neutrality that we have set ourselves in Europe, and in order to create truly sustainable work and development for the environment, and, again, in order to make our homes more secure from an anti-seismic and energy-efficient point of view, and, finally, in order to improve our economic accounts on GDP, tax and social security revenue and VAT. Our proposal, which we make to the whole Parliament and to the country, is therefore to prolong, after 31 December 2023, the validity of the superbonus. This is a measure that is fully fulfilling its effects and the data show that it is not an expenditure for the country, but rather a measure to which everyone really gains: the State, the environment and citizens. On the fiscal front, on the other hand, at the hearing this morning I represented to Minister Franco the need and the urgency to consider very carefully the possibility of intervening on the suspension of the sending of the debitory records, which - I remember - ended on 31 August, while the deadline for paying the related taxes or requesting the installment expired on 30 September. There are so many companies, artisans and families that can't stay in these times, in these terms, but that are loyal and honest taxpayers (which, by the way, are the vast majority), who want to pay their taxes absolutely, but ask for a dilution of taxes of 2020, because the effects of the pandemic for many have been devastating. I believe that the country must be reasonable and allow these honest taxpayers to overcome the current stage of objective economic difficulties. To this end, I believe that the so-called quaternal dismantling of the folders, which we have been talking about for a while, would also be useful, thus providing for the cancellation of sanctions and interest, but the full payment of the tax, and is related to the fiscal years 2018-2019-2020. In this respect, I have, over the past few months, tabled amendments to the various emergency measures which we have adopted in Parliament, but which have so far been unsuccessful. I really appeal to all political forces and the government to gather the cry of grief of those in difficulty... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u17	Colleagues, we've all figured out what's going on. I was trying to end Senator Marco Pellegrini and then suspend our work for five minutes, but I have to ask him to stop his intervention to allow his colleague to be rescued. As soon as Senator Marco Pellegrini has finished his speech, colleagues, we will suspend our work for five minutes for technical reasons. Mr President, of course I didn't notice the pain of my colleague, but we hope that everything will be all right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's totally under control.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u18	I will repeat my call to all political forces and to the Government to gather the cry of pain of those in difficulty, wants to pay taxes up to the last euro, but it is at a particular time. However, I must also record and stigmatize that, during the hearings (and I am sure it will be repeated in the speeches that will follow my own), the parties of the centre-right have made the usual attack on the income of citizenship. This is a subject that has been discussed a great deal in recent months. Salvini and important representatives of the right and right-hand centre have done so; For example, Mr Salvini said that he would table an amendment to cash it; Renzi is even promoting a repealing referendum, but for the truth it has recorded so far the collection of very few signatures, a sign that perhaps in the country this battle is not at all shared. The chorus that has been repeated to boredom is that the income of citizenship - to them say - would go to mobsters, thugs and people who would not be entitled to it. However, official data, which are the only ones we should take into account, blatantly disprove these who, from our point of view, are cowardly lies, as only 3% of the beneficiaries have been found to be irregular. I would be delighted if there were such low rates of fraud for other subsidies and support that the State generously grants to citizens and businesses, but never mentioned, because they were not approved and promoted by the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause]] The detractors of the citizenship income claim that, because of it, there would be no seasonal workers, especially in the tourism, hospitality and catering sectors; in this case too, however, the data resoundingly deny the chatter that is made around the bar or in the TV lounges. In fact, the official data tell us that in May 2021 the contracts for seasonal workers were 148, many more than those of 2020, as was normal, because in that year there was the pandemic, but there are many more than those recorded in 2019 and 2018, when the income of citizenship did not even exist. Further confirmation, the June figure is still higher, because the 200,000 contracts have been exceeded: in the first six months of 2021, there was exactly a record of the recruitment of seasonal workers, that is exactly the opposite of what is being done on TV and, unfortunately, sometimes, also in this Parliament. After these incontrovertible data compared to the arguments used by the enemies of citizenship income and 5 Star Movement (because the real goal is to attack us and try to delegitimize us), the new argument is that the citizenship income would be responsible for the explosion of undeclared work, as I heard at the hearing both yesterday and this morning. Not having a single data in support, but only to make vicious propaganda, it is stated and repeated obsessively that the income is responsible for this explosion. The above data is all false, while I reported the official data from the INPS. We believe that this propaganda is particularly serious to the detriment of fragile people and our fellow countrymen in difficult situations, who deserve all the help that the community and the State can and must give them. We therefore expect this ignoble theater to come to an end as soon as possible. In conclusion, we of the Movimento 5 Stars will continue to use all our energies with the only objective of ensuring to the Italians a better life and a better future. We will continue to take special care of those who have suffered most in recent years: craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises, those who work and work every day, families and citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u19	I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 13.48 p.m. and resumed at 14.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u20	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 117 of 17 August 2021 laying down urgent provisions concerning precautionary operational security arrangements for the collection of votes in the elections of the year 2021" (2405).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u21	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u22	Mr President, my speech, like that of my colleague, Mr De Bonis, who preceded me, will essentially relate to a note relating to the updating of the Economic and Financial Document, namely that on differentiated autonomy. On 29 September last, the Council of Ministers approved the Update Note of the 2021 Economic and Finance Document and there was no trace of the measure laying down provisions for the implementation of differentiated autonomy, which is now at the top of the list and appears on the website of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. So, initially not to include this provision, in my view it was rather wise and quite correct. It should not be forgotten that differentiated autonomy would give the regions exclusive competences on essential matters, which would affect the same unity of our country - we are talking about the environment, health, work and school - thus accentuating the imbalances already existing, to which Mr De Bonis referred, between the rich and poor areas of the country and between citizens more or less disadvantaged. All this runs counter to Articles 2, which refer to economic and social solidarity, 3, which speaks of equality of citizens, and 5 of the Constitution, and to the latter I would like to address the opposite side of this House, which has always referred to the unity of Italy. Inserting the bill on differentiated autonomy between those connected to the financial maneuver, by the Government, means stifling the debate in the parliamentary classrooms, since it is strongly limited by the Chamber and Senate Regulations the possibility to amend the text in the Chamber, being linked to the budget law, for which there is a reinforced procedure, which must be followed. Similarly, the link to the budgetary manoeuvre could lead to fears, in accordance with Article 75 (2) of the Constitution, that citizens may not even be able to use the instrument of the repealing referendum. In any case, it must be said immediately that, beyond the formal placement of the bill, this legislation is certainly and essentially legal. However, in this way, the Commission de facto concaterates the prerogatives of Parliament and individual Members - in particular those who are not members of the Commissions of merit - since their power to amend the text will be greatly reduced, due to the special procedure provided for those related to budgetary maneuvering, and also with an attempt to annihilate popular sovereignty. The effect of the approval of this differentiated autonomy will only be to further privatise the essential services, opening even more the way to private individuals in the field of school, public health and work, despite what has sadly and tragically been highlighted during the most acute phase of the Covid epidemic; as happened also in the school, as already foreseen in the drafts that were discussed in 2018-2019, before the fall of the government Count I. Without any doubt at the moment, citizens must be allowed to express themselves through means of direct democracy, to which so much of the hemicycle has always turned and addressed itself on paper. Citizens must be allowed to express themselves and, above all, to know the content and effects of these measures. It is very simple; these measures will only lead to the Balkanization of the country, to the division, to the creation of many small Italy in competition with each other, while the State will have no capacity and no resource to establish compensatory measures. We are doing exactly the opposite of what needs to be done; before even establishing the essential levels of performance (LEP), we establish the autonomy of the richest regions. The public service must be committed to building, maintaining and making fundamental rights and major public service networks effective and substantial from school, health and work. The public service must remedy the differences and lacerations that the different opportunities for access to law creates in our country. It is certainly not in this way that we can act. The public service must not accentuate, as it is doing, through differentiated autonomy, these differences. We must reject this yet another attempt to overpower Parliament, which is repeated by the various Commissions. Every Member of Parliament, in my opinion, has a duty today not to abdicate his/her prerogatives, duties and, indeed, must defend popular sovereignty at the same time both in the representative form here today and in the direct form expressed by a repealing referendum. In conclusion, I would like to say that together with 10, 11,12 Members (are being added) we will be tabling an amendment as soon as the majority resolution is ready to do so so that the draft law on differentiated autonomy is removed from that list. [[Applause]] The Unity of Italy and solidarity are indeed important. All this is established in the Constitution well before the differentiated autonomy, which must take account of it. All this must be brought to the attention of citizens through a public debate. The citizen must know what we are doing, what the government of this Republic is doing. It is necessary for a citizen to be informed in order to be able to take his own decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u23	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u24	Mr President, I begin to speak and play my role as a Member of Parliament, as a representative of the institutions of the citizens of my territory, but also of the whole country, as laid down by the rules, with some additional difficulties. This is because these days bear witness not only to a majority that is increasingly failing, but also to a government that is more and more imploding not only the majority that supports it, but also the institutional and constitutional rules, as I will explain later. So we are playing our part, in an increasingly empty Chamber, with a Government represented by the very worthy representation of Mr Undersecretary, whom I thank, which is, however, in absolute solitude, and in parliamentary committees, such as those we attend, which are in fact forced to wait for the beginning of the work, for the lack of the quorum. Mr President, these are not good contexts and these are certainly not the answers that institutions should give, at such important and difficult times for our country. So when you analyze the Update Note to the DEF, you also have to start from the climate you breathe, which certainly can only be negative. On the positive side, there are the numbers and the fact that NADEF certifies that the European austerity policies, which were in vogue and were supported by almost everyone until a few months ago, have led to a complete failure, if it is true that the positive data of the DEF - as Mrs Conzatti has explicitly clarified - are determined by the increase in GDP, i.e. by the expansionary policies. That is exactly what the centre-right has been calling for for for years, being accused, by colleagues sitting on other benches of Parliament, of populism, demagogy and speaking to the belly of the people. This is what the centre-right has been asking for for for years and which, on the contrary, was opposed by the side of Parliament which is facing me, with a rule of absolute good governance, namely that of being within 2.04 percent in the deficit-GDP ratio. Colleagues, we remember when it was 2.04 the deficit-GDP ratio that could not be exceeded even by a "zero comma." Well, all these austerity rules, which, from the years 2000 to 2019, had lowered our country in the low areas of the European ranking, fortunately have been set aside and the results are seen in the DEF and, above all, in NADEF. This is perhaps the only positive aspect I can remember. I also feel like recalling the words written by the former Minister of Economy and Finance of the yellow-green government, Tria, who in his reflection on "The Sun 24 hours" reiterated the concepts that I have now expressed, clarifying that the rules of the Fiscal compact were absolutely wrong and inadequate. Too bad that, when they were ministers or at least members of the government, those who before and after said and said these things, were not able to achieve them. Former Minister Tria, who I know is a serious person, could explain to us why, as Minister of the Yellow-Green Government, he was unable or unable to do what he said before and what he said now. Perhaps because the European constraints of this 'great and magnanimous' Europe actually lay down laws on these issues too? I believe that the answer is really in re ipsa and I do not need a more explicit consideration. I continue on this subject, saying that the parliamentary times that have been made available to us, in the Commissions and in this House, once again confirm that the role of Parliament, of us senators, of us parliamentarians is being undermined by the majority and by the Government. Yesterday we had a few hours to work in the Commission on NADEF and today we are here to make some consideration, perhaps to give ourselves the power to express our protagonism and to make us the pleasure of being able to speak with ourselves and with our people. Then we vote and move on! The rules of democracy are constantly broken, so much so that certainly not a dangerous right-wing reactionary, but a person esteemed by everyone as Piepoli, a great pollist and analyst, spoke in truly dramatic terms of a climate in which there is the risk of totalitarianism. All the rules of the Constitution have been violated in recent months and are further violated. I will explain this very shortly also with regard to one of the key aspects of NADEF, i.e. tax reform. I would first like to say one thing by addressing my colleagues, especially the Democratic Party, who are the driving force behind this government and this majority. I would like to address the few Members who are present in this House, but all of whom are valuable and appreciated by me, and ask why, given that in 2020 and 2021 we had the freedom to go beyond the deficit-to-GDP ratio and the debt-to-GDP ratio, this has not been done even more strongly. Why have the improvements resulting from higher than expected GDP growth not been used for new investments? We could have safely maintained the deficit-to-GDP ratio at 11.8%, as expected in the DEF, and used the available margins to make new investments in the real economy, creating the conditions for greater growth in our GDP. Why has this not been done in these years when it was possible? It would have been an act of responsibility towards the growth of our country, which has no political color, but requires only an economic vision aimed at giving real prospects to Italy and the national economy. This is a question that Brothers of Italy wants to ask the Government and clearly to the Franco Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The time available is not that long and I come therefore to tax reform, considered by all to be the mother of all the reforms and fundamental part of the PNRR, the NADEF and the dialogue - or, better, the conflict - that is taking place at this time in the majority. It seems to me that my fellow Ministers of the League did not attend yesterday's meeting of the Council of Ministers with pride (welcome from us) because President Salvini said he had received the papers half an hour before the beginning. We all know very well that the Ministers, the Undersecretaries and the Deputy Ministers are largely informed of the work of the Government exactly when we are parliamentarians. Everything is being decided in the secret rooms of one or two ministries. That is the violation of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. What reform do we want to talk about then? A reform of good intentions? Of a delegation law that is not generalist, but is it deliberately vague? With the delegation law in question, it is intended to give the Government the opportunity to adopt legislative decrees that will make it current, in fact without passing by Parliament, which will be able to express only one opinion. We are talking about a tax reform, which is the cornerstone of a country's system, which has no funds (only EUR 2 billion of cover funds are foreseen and - let me say this, Mr President - it is ridiculous to talk about tax reform with these figures) and which is promoted by an absolutely vague delegation law, which leaves its hands free to the Government or - better - the Minister of Economy and Finance and the President of the Council, who, in their absolute autonomy and individuality, will be responsible for tax reform. This is not acceptable. Unfortunately, I have to finish and thank you for the extra seconds you gave me. I have a lot to say about tax reform and we will. Brothers of Italy - allow me - asks each one of us and each of you, beyond the political color (I repeat), a whisper of pride. Parliament cannot be held hostage to anyone; we have never been in favour of authoritarian regimes and we are the first to support democracy and freedom. We all want to ensure that we do not arrive at the one party, but even the only leader, the one or those in the secret rooms who decide the fate of this country. It's not acceptable. Long live freedom, live Brothers of Italy and our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u26	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the DEF of 2021 sets out a scenario for the growth of the Italian economy and for the gradual reduction of the deficit and the public debt. It starts with the April 2021 Document numbers, which we see improved in the new forecasts. In 2021, programme GDP growth will increase from 4.5 to 6 percent and in 2022 it will grow by 4.7%, and then grow by 2.8% in 2023 and by 1.9 percent in 2024. The deficit-GDP ratio in 2021 is estimated at 9.4 percent instead of 11.8; it has improved compared to previous projections, but remains high, given the different economic support measures put in place. This will then fall to 5.6 percent in 2022, in 2023 to 3.9 percent and in 2024 to 3.3 percent; from 2025, the ratio will return below 3 percent. The debt-to-GDP ratio is estimated in 2021 at 153.5%, still steadily decreasing until 2024, with 146 percent, moving away from that 160 percent assumed until a few months ago. GDP growth, higher than expected in April, increases all other public finance indicators; at least for a while it is still a technical rebound compared to the fall of 8.9% of GDP in 2020. Starting from 2024 we see that economic growth is at 1.9 percent: a good level and still higher than before the crisis. It is clear that the forecasts of this NADEF focus on the good use of investment and the achievement of the reform objectives, as well as on the will and the need to continue with an expansionary maneuver for the coming years. The expected recovery in the years 2022-2024 is also supported by a strong increase in investment, also supported by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The improvement of the indicators foreseen in the DEF and updated in the Note is certainly due to the resumption of economic activities, although in various respects with the economic and social partners emerge critical that the Government has to face, in order to avoid a slowdown of the supply on the demand. Surely the most important is due to the increase of the raw materials and to the packages of bottle of the international logistics, that they represent a strong brake to the global activity. We know very well that the increase in raw materials and energy (light and gas) is affecting production costs, with a fall on the final consumer (families and businesses), leading inflation to rise in the last quarter to 2.6%. [[Applause]] The measures put in place by the Government, temporarily canceling the general system charges in the bill and enhancing the social bonus to families in difficulty, have in fact buffered the problem in part on the direct effect; but the indirect effect remains, due to the increase of the prices on the consumer products. Another issue raised is the difficulty of finding a workforce in all sectors, especially the most drivers (service sector and construction sector). I remember that the unemployment rate remains very high, with 9.6 percent compared to 2020, which stood at 9.3 percent. A new plan for active policies, introducing the revision of citizenship income, is therefore urgently needed to bridge the gap between supply and demand for work. I remember that the citizenship income was designed and wanted with the aim of mitigating poverty, but above all to accompany the unemployed in the world of work. However, it is currently not achieving these objectives, except to a very limited extent. In June 2021 there were 1,15 million beneficiaries, out of more than 3 million totals who had signed the labour pact; but in February 2021 only 152,673 had established an employment relationship. Italy cannot live on subsidies; Italy must live on work and companies, together with workers, must be able to produce. [[Applause]] We need to take action on the tax wedge for companies and on simplification in order to lighten the current burden of bureaucracy in terms of time and money for businesses. The data contained in NADEF tells us how important the measures against the pandemic that allowed a good recovery of economic activity were. We know that a recurrence of the disease would lead to a collapse of the data contained in NADEF: a week of lockdown costs 0.5 of GDP. In this regard, we are concerned about the fall in health spending to 6.1 percent in 2024, to a lower level in 2015 (6.6%), after peaking at 7.5 percent in 2020 for spending on tackling the pandemic emergency. With the pandemic many people have postponed and even given up treatment and we cannot allow this to continue at the expense of the most fragile and disadvantaged. The attention to the concrete and upcoming problems on the part of the government serves to instill confidence in the citizens and can be the recipe to reverse the trend of the savings that families have adopted in this period of pandemic - let's remember that the savings of the Italians amount to 200 billion - transforming them into investments and introducing liquidity in the system. President, the League's commitment to an Italy that grows and wants to return to excellence in Europe and the world is there. Let us continue to make expansive policies, trying to avoid harassment and taxation for companies that could reduce this good performance of NADEF forecasts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u28	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly thank the rapporteur because I believe that she has given us a timely presentation of the Update Note to the DEF for the debate in this House. I want to emphasise - as you did - that this is a particularly important plan because from the point of view of the socio-economic and political context it is not a step like the others because it is intertwined with two elements that I want to highlight. The first is that we are coming out - we have not yet come out - of the pandemic crisis and, therefore, we must continue with this choice because it is a fundamental point to consolidate the elements of growth and not to make it just a rebound. It was said, in fact, that a possible further closure would be exactly not corresponding to the positive data provided by the Update Note to the DEF. A second political element that seems important from our point of view is that the data presented in the Update Note to the DEF tell us that the Italian maxi-indebtedness begins to fall one year in advance. This too must make us reflect on the fact that we can consolidate this as a political choice, as well as as an economic choice. This can be done if we continue rationally, and concretely, in the right time, to do investment operations. In fact, only with economic, social, sustainable, fair and equal growth - on which I shall dwell - can we determine the consolidation of this aspect. Otherwise, we won't be able to do this operation. And since we are at a different stage, I think it is equally important to tell us one thing: we must pay particular attention to the necessary link between the lines and objectives of the PNRR and its investments and current expenditure, which we will decide with the budget law. This is an interweaving of coherence. I therefore come to the points which, from my point of view, are important. The Government and Parliament have already outlined important choices in a new and competitive context for our country: I am thinking, for example, of the reforms that we have already begun to implement, of the reform of the criminal process and of the civil process. We will soon be dealing with tax and competition reform and, I say more, we absolutely must intertwine tax reform with the fight against tax evasion, because this is also an important issue. They are all reforms of context of the country system that effectively make Italy competitive and that make available those investments, both national and international, of which there is great need, with a weave that, as the Update Note also says, we must know how to realize, mobilizing for the part of our competence the public investments so as to solicit also the private investments. This is the great axis that, in my opinion, is being determined now. We are all facing together the condition that our country system has not grown for at least two decades from the point of view of the productivity of the factors of the country system, beyond of course the low growth of the population. These are two elements on which there must then be consistency on the priorities that we give ourselves. What are the priorities that I see in the key axes of the update note to the DEF and that, from my point of view, should be highlighted and highlighted as priority in our choices for the budget law? I think that - and we all say this - we must put at the centre the way to create the real conditions to increase employment, to create good employment, to create stable, skilled employment and I add - and these days it is not a random addition - safe. In other words, I believe that the first investment that we have to take seriously to talk about investment in work is precisely about safety. [[Applause]] I think it was important that the Draghi Government met the organisations representing the world of work and enterprise, putting this issue at the centre, because a job must start from the fact that no one can go to work and not return home. This is a fundamental element which obviously also brings with it further choices: they are investment choices exactly in current spending, which must be made, we cannot just be stated. This is, in my view, a matter of priority and importance. This means increasing labour inspectors, specialising them in different contexts and in different situations, because we must accompany the processes of change from this point of view too, in the use of technologies, in the transformation of work patterns within the supply chains and, in particular, in small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are necessary processes, they are investments that must be made. This, in my view, is the first fundamental element. We must also know that we have a priority, of which the present document also states in its lines and that it has also been taken up by the rapporteur in this House. We need to know that there is a fundamental axis, in view of the analyses that we have always made of the shortcomings, of the relationship between growth and skills needs. We must invest a great deal in active labour policies: this must be our axis. Investing in active labour policies means creating a new and more solid connection with training policies, which must be systematised within this path, starting from investments from zero to six years, with the famous issues concerning nests as well. All this also has to do with educational poverty, on which to invest, and with the other axis that is particularly important at this stage: I am referring to the investment on the fundamental function of the Higher Technical Institutes (ITS) and the vocational degrees. Equally important is the investment in a sound research policy, because these are the threads necessary to cross - which in Italy historically is difficult to do - economic growth, the investments of companies in capital with human capital, which today is the fundamental point of connection. We know that we have a very strong backwardness on this. This choice implies as a consequence, because it is an interweaving to put work policies at the centre as system policies, the reform of social shock absorbers. I would also like to say a few words about this: reform of social shock absorbers, which must cover all the different situations and accompany the transition of the different processes, which companies and production chains cover at different stages. This also means that the choice must now be made to the full; we must put at the centre the increase in female and youth employment, in particular women's employment, on which the gap is a classic and we continue to say so. The increase in female employment, across all these measures, meanwhile reduces poverty and inequalities; increases the wealth produced for all and for all, in addition to the autonomy and freedom of women, and of course, with investments in social infrastructure, produces exactly a reversal of the demographic curve. However, the whole country needs to be involved in this extraordinary process of change. Therefore, I do not like to use the word "patto" in abstract. The Ciampi Pact, at the time, had a different purpose; social dialogue in Europe had a different function. Today we are talking about a democratic involvement of all institutions that have institutional and social responsibilities, both at national and territorial level, because this is the great change that can only be governed together, each for its functions and responsibilities, but it is equally important. Otherwise, instead of making the most of this extraordinary resource opportunity, we would risk only increasing the gap and not facing the gap that this country faces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u29	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u30	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, this update note to the DEF is courageous and I would say far-sighted, and it is an important injection of optimism for all those who work in our economy. Without optimism it is difficult to invest and it is difficult to create a job. Before I go into the matter, I would like to focus on a number of points that have been touched upon in this House by some of my previous colleagues. Europe is true that it has been silent and deaf to the many calls, it is useless to hide us, but there is here those who have divided themselves among those who called for a closer, stronger and more united Europe, and who even asked to get out of the euro and Europe. It seems prehistoric today, but until a year and a half ago we heard these speeches in this House. The climate of austerity, which unfortunately persisted and has deeply damaged those who believe in a stronger Europe, as we see it, has inclined with the lead of Dragons to the ECB: it is useless Hiding it from us. Draghi saved the euro and saved Europe with quantitative easing. These are data that it would be wrong to neglect. Certainly the pandemic - otherwise it seems that we are living a different reality - has accelerated this process, in our opinion in a way that should be normalized. The battle of all of us today should be precisely that of not going back: this is the real challenge of Parliament, but I hope not only of the Italian one, and that is why we must accept those parameters of 2.04 (with trick 2.4), because unfortunately or luckily we live in a community of rules and it is strange that precisely those who want to respect the rules then ask for derogations. Let us put ourselves in reverse: if we are in an international treaty, which is the European Union, we must, if we are to be a credible country, respect those rules. Today those rules, if God wills, have been broken and we must make sure that there is no return. But as long as we sign a treaty and want to be credible in the interactive chessboard we must respect it; then we can fight to modify it, to widen its meshes, but certainly we cannot fail to respect it, also because the damages, if you do not respect it, do not pay them the President of the Council or the individual senator, but a country of 60 million inhabitants. Thank God we had quantitative easing, because otherwise the country would have jumped, not for the faults of others, perhaps even for tasks that we have not performed. Compared to NADEF, there is citizenship income within that framework of 2.4 billion, so we also enter into the substance of this document. I have listened to my colleague Marco Pellegrini, a person I think very much, but that is not the case: as far as we are concerned, we do not want the income of citizenship to be eliminated, undoubtedly, as we said even when it was presented in this Chamber (without the clowning of the balcony, which could be avoided), we have expressed our doubts not about the size and kind of income of inclusion, but about the way in which this was to be carried out, because it was based on two pillars: support and assistance and active labour policies. Those, my friends, aren't there. We can tell ourselves what we want, but it is no coincidence that the proof that everything about labour policies is a failure is that employment agencies are being cancelled and the 7,000 navigators are being replaced. Any one of us who has the opportunity to have a dialogue realizes that they do not combine anything, not because they are nothingy or incapable, but because they do not have the tools to bring together the demand and the supply of work. [[Applause]] It's all there, it's not a preliminary or ideological attitude, as some of you want to think. If one thing works (this measure cubes 7 billion euros a year), for God's sake, it is good, it is good, but it cannot be sufficient only the contemplation of a provision that does not work, just as so many other measures did not work during the pandemic - it is useless to hide it - and have been improved, for example in the matter of social shock absorbers. The deficit is expected to rise to 9.4 per cent of GDP from 11.8 per cent of forecast in 2021 and the parameters will stabilise around 2024. The question I ask myself and which I ask all of you, subject to all the related measures and reforms, is how we can bring these huge numbers down into everyday reality. I say this because out of here, while remaining the optimism that I see, for God's sake, there is vivacity, but there is also despair. These numbers run the risk of being abstract, cold, cold, because the feeling is that commercial activities and companies continue to close; so something in that mechanism of large numbers doesn't work; I don't know if it's the inability to update, to train, to reinvent, but something doesn't work. Tax reform is a very sensitive issue, because this is a country that if it does not cancel the hypocrisy of making it convenient to declare rather than not declare, there will be no adequate tax reform. It is clear, in fact, that if one citizen is taxed at the source and another is not, in a system in which there is a tax burden among the highest in the world, that he will do anything not to declare and I do not blame him and say so as a citizen taxed at the source, which therefore has difficulty not to declare. I do not know if it is illegal, but certainly in this country that person does not find it convenient to state, rather it finds it convenient to evade or even escape. I would like to conclude my speech with just one concern. The devastating element is the increase in the price of raw materials and energy costs. We must pay attention because inflation too high, with the risk of stagnation, creates the conditions for a perfect storm. I am convinced that the government is adopting the possible plan B, the two pillars on which it is based are greater investment and less tax pressure, therefore two variable levers, but I would suggest a choral intervention of the whole European Union to cope with this threat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u31	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u32	Mr President, the government estimates that by the end of the year, if all goes well, we will recover two thirds of what we lost in 2020. There are very positive estimates of GDP, with growth of 2.2%, and industry of 1%. Then, however, it is prudently added that, if the pandemic ever resumes, our predictions would be at risk. In fact, the Parliamentary Budget Office tells us that the macroeconomic framework of the MEF is at least slightly optimistic about the forecasts, and not only because of the pandemic risk, but also because of differentiated tightening of economic policies. This means that, after the pandemic is over, the expansive policies of governments and central banks will end, and the absorption of accumulated financial imbalances, i.e. debts, at times that could be too hasty could lead to serious disruptions in the recovery cycles of countries. In Italy, the public debt stock is very high and financial tensions could quickly interact with the recovery. These risks are very dependent on the new system of budgetary rules, on which, therefore, the utmost attention and caution must be concentrated. Having said that, what we want to emphasize in the short time available is that in the list of related bills present in the Note under consideration there is a serious lack of the bill to reorder the environmental legislation, of transformation of the green economy and of the circular economy (the famous green generation), on which in the previous formation of Government we were working because it was the environmental connection to the previous budget law. There is also no draft law on minimum wages and representation of the social partners in collective bargaining. These are fundamental legislative initiatives for the ecological transition and for the protection of workers' rights; priority and essential issues for achieving the objectives of equity and justice, social and environmental, which Europe recommends. However, it is stated that, as a result of the non-forecast in NADEF 2021, they cease to be draft laws linked to the budgetary decision. This is very serious, because we are talking about the two main objectives that we set ourselves with the PNRR. Above all - as my colleagues have already said - there is one thing that should not be: once again, some regions plot under the table - as we said in a press release - to the detriment of the unity of the Republic. The danger had already been glimpsed and overcome with the previous Government, in particular with Minister Boccia, who had tried to link the differentiated autonomy with the budget law. Today the Draghi Government returns to us, probably having to pay duty, and retraces the same attempt in NADEF: it interferes and inserts among the twenty-one connected decree-law "Provisions for the implementation of the differentiated autonomy referred to in article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution." It is the first bill on the list, almost to mean that its approval is a priority. Yet, it was included in the absence of a public debate; indeed, I would say more: in contempt of the considerations that emerged from the public debate that occurred during the pandemic by Covid-19, which highlighted the very deep limits of efficiency and coordination - let us all remember - of the decentralisation of functions with regard to fundamental values such as health, environment, education, work, values protected by the Constitution. These are limits that, with the autonomy, would make the gap between the Mezzogiorno and the rest of Italy even more serious; they would also be extremely serious about the recovery of the North - this is what all economic observers say - and further about the violation of the principle of equality - already violated - referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution. (14.50) (Nugnes follow). It is a priority not to approve the draft law in question, but to define the essential levels of performance and essential levels of environmental technical performance that have been waiting for thirty years. We have drawn up an amendment to this effect, which we shall be presenting as soon as possible, for the deletion of this link. It is not the time to deal with one of the most burning issues for the country with a Bulgarian majority in Parliament; a premise that arises from an amendment to Title V, which has been misjudged by several parties, which would be time to put at the centre of the debate for a necessary and no longer extendable constitutional revision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u33	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Conzatti, and the Undersecretary, who is always present in our work. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that, once again, time is too tight. [[Applause]] It is not conceivable to do the analysis of NADEF, which on other occasions took from seven to ten days, in a day and a half. But these are the times that have been given. We claim, at least, the right of moaning. Undoubtedly, the data from the analysis of NADEF see a forecast improvement reported in the third quarter, while for the fourth quarter there will be a slight decrease. However, an increase of 6% per year is envisaged. So, I would say that, compared to the forecast of the DEF of 4.5%, the figure is certainly positive. For 2022 the expected growth is more moderate, but we note that the deficit for 2021 has also fallen compared to 2020, so the data improve. How could it be different with the measurements and the firepower put in the field? The concern also expressed during the hearings by the various speakers was to ensure that this visible recovery, repeated by representatives of the various sectors of production, from industry to craftsmen, became structural, and therefore a lower growth, not at the same rates, but constant. Therefore, precise acts will have to be carried out, as certainly is - we have been saying this for years in this House - the fight against tax evasion. Particular attention will then have to be paid to increasing expenditure on investment, research, innovation, improving the education and health of our country, that is to say, to allow us to have a basic level that projects us into a future of greater well-being. Certainly there are many problems, and I will deal with just a few. For example, greater flexibility of entry and exit from the labour market is required, because those people - especially women - who have been expelled because of the pandemic must be able to re-enter, but there must also be particularly effective training for all workers. If ours is to become a country with more widespread digital knowledge; if the employer - industrial, craftsman, public administration - requires a higher level of knowledge, skill and productivity, they need to be supported by an increasing level of education and training. Therefore, we should really focus our forces, our resources and our investments on this front, because human capital is the most important element. And I'm not just talking about the high levels, with respect to which we certainly need to ensure that the most qualified young people who are abroad find incentives that bring them back to our country. The climate of trust and positive expectations now exists: he was abroad before, in some capitals - I am thinking, for example, in Berlin and London - but now he is also present in our country. We must ensure that those young people who have trained in Italy or abroad, but who are now abroad, return and give their contribution to the growth of a country that is moving, which is becoming authoritative even outside its borders. There is optimism abroad about our growth: we have become more reliable, so we must pursue this path. In the same way, it must be ensured that even the less skilled workers, with ad hoc training, can be adapted to better, yet more performing roles. So, it raises the level of all workers. And that is what we must do to plan for continuous growth. I now come to the income of citizenship. I want to talk about this because it is always a stimulus to hear about it from some of my colleagues, who are also friends. I don't understand why you can't stop and say that some things didn't go well. I also say that from the point of view of local administrator. PUC (Collective utility projects) did not work. Let's face it. [[Applause]] The ANCI representative also told us during the hearings that were held earlier. It is simply a matter of looking at reality. As I have said before in this House, the control mechanism should be provided for ex ante, not ex post: it is an absurd job that is being done to tell some people - then the money no longer has them - that they must return them because they were not entitled to it. It is precisely the mechanism that is wrong; but above all the cost is enormous: 7 billion per year. Perhaps it would be better to think of school education, of helping families with disabled children who need support, which is currently in charge of municipalities covering needs with their own funds. And I stress that disabled people - I am referring both to the autistic spectrum and to physical disabilities - are still on the increase. So there are some very important measures to be taken. Mr President, another very important point that we are being asked to pay attention to by industry, by craftsmen, and in any case by the world of production, is still about simplification. Something has been done with the so-called Brunetta decree, but more needs to be done. We are asked by those who produce, who have started to invest, to export, to produce, to seek even more sustainable systems for doing business. But more and more simplification is needed. We have a model of maxodontic laws that simplification really doesn't know what it is. We have to move on. It is therefore necessary to make these reflections for our future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u35	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the 2021 Economy and Finance Document cannot fail to take into account that the economic and health situation has improved significantly in recent months. All this is undeniable and has happened with the competition of several factors that have influenced more than positively on the path of global recovery of our country. The measures to support economic activities in crisis and the progress of the vaccination campaign with the involvement of the adolescent age group and young people have allowed to cope with the fourth wave and the spread of Delta variant, much more contagious. The target to vaccinate 80 percent of the population over the age of twelve is about to be achieved. The programme for the next three years 2022-2024 provides for the renewal of various measures of economic and social importance, such as those relating to the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and the incentives for the energy efficiency of buildings, the latter being strongly desired by the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause]] More particularly, the measures relating to our health system, to its functioning, to the improvement of services provided both in qualitative and quantitative terms, to the guiding criteria for the reorganization of the institutions of hospitalization and care of a scientific nature of public law; and those relating to a more careful planning and a more extensive organizational network in the territory with the consequent strengthening of territorial medicine, real watersheds in order to obtain an increase of the services provided and a reduction of the workloads of the hospital structures. This is an ambitious project, to which an adequate availability of economic resources must contribute - made available from the European funds received with the PNRR and obtained from Europe through the Government Count II - and the correct coordination between the central management booth and the individual regional structures. Only a more active and effective collaboration between Government, Ministries and Regions, that has often failed during the acute phase of the pandemic or has been poorly realized for cross vetoes or even for different peripheral political choices, will allow to start a new path and to achieve objectives and results not otherwise achievable. We must never forget the more than 130,000 victims of the pandemic from Covid-19 in Italy, 4.5 million worldwide, with over 225 million contagions. The choice of extending the obligation of the health permit to all categories of public and private workers, starting next 15 October, goes in my opinion in the right direction to stimulate and increase the vaccination practice - on the one hand - even of the most hesitant groups and - on the other hand - especially the need for more and more careful and constant epidemiological surveillance in order to reduce the infection and the spread of possible variants of the virus in order to finally defeat the pandemic. We'll be protected when everyone is protected. To this end, the start of the third doses of recall to the most fragile subjects before the beginning of winter and a more extensive and widespread vaccination campaign for seasonal influence will also allow to reduce the risks of new epidemic waves, with overload of hospital health facilities. All this has an economic cost, but the initial increase in health spending for 2020, following the measures introduced to respond immediately to the emergency from Covid-19, in 2021 will be followed by a slight drop in the same health expenditure, equal to 7.3 percent of GDP, until returning, by 2024, to 6.1 percent. All this is essentially linked to the overall increase in GDP. In the next two years there will be a fall of 2.3% in health expenditure, due to the lower burden of the pandemic emergency. In conclusion, Mr President, apart from the figures and numbers, which are also important, what interests citizens and therefore the 5 Star Movement is to see and touch with hands every day that the resources are invested and engaged in the best way, both in terms of services, and in terms of attention to critical issues, fragility and disability. This must be done now or in the near future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u36	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u37	Mr President, the debate on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document is, in this context, a decisive moment of political confrontation. If we do not grasp this aspect, we risk proceeding with some misunderstandings, which could amplify and become disrupting in the interpretation of the path that our country has undertaken, through the Government Dragons. You see, ladies and gentlemen, what we have started is a path that has clear objectives, on which I do not dwell, because I think we have discussed this a lot. They are written in the contract we have made with the European Union, which is called the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. According to that contract we are receiving the resources of the Next generation EU, but these goals, however clear, are not achieved indifferently through alternatives very distant from each other. There is no wide range of interchangeable alternatives that allows us to have the same chances of achieving those goals. On the contrary, among the conditions that allow us to achieve those objectives there are obligatory points of passage, which bear with them consequences on the choices that we must develop. Let me explain in concrete terms, starting from a given: Italy, unlike other countries, has decided to take from Europe all the resources that were possible to take, both subsidiary ones, and therefore the subsidies that are not to be returned, both those lent, which represent debt to be returned. Not all countries have behaved like us and that is why we are first in the ranking of financial resources. For example, Germany, France, Spain and Portugal have chosen to take only subsidies; Poland even one third of the loans, and Italy the subsidies plus 100% of the loans. In July the debt was €2,725.9 billion, an increase of €29.7 billion compared to May. Spain has decided to take only the subsidies, saying that it will spend these resources in the meantime and then see what conditions it will be in, and possibly also draw on the debt side. Since we have chosen to draw on all the resources and the substantial part of the resources is due, then there is a word that represents an obligatory passage: growth. Without growth you do not pay debts and here President Draghi gives us an additional indication, because he defines growth, calling it inclusive growth. I believe that we must deal with this definition politically and understand ourselves, because I believe that inclusive growth is not to be understood in a classic way: we grow, we produce surpluses that we use to pay debts, but also to give subsidies that reduce scissors, distances, differences and inequalities. When President Draghi speaks of inclusive growth, I think it should be interpreted in a new way and not in the classic sense according to which the cake is produced and a slice goes to welfare. Today, inclusive growth, for the kind of path we have to make and of which I said before, needs a new welfare oriented to sustain growth. Wealfare must also be an element of support for growth and it would not be new either. Let's give an example. If we change - as I think - the income of citizenship - we can continue to call it this - it will be to direct it strongly to the formation, in order to bring people back into the world of work in an absolutely productive way and adapted to the challenges of the future of our country. Let's think about managing the transition dynamics of our production system in the new horizon of carbon free sustainability. I'm talking about a welfare that supports growth and becomes an active labour policy. When President Draghi speaks of inclusive growth, there is a political point of confrontation, and I still do not want to say a watershed, because I believe there are the conditions for finding a declination of this synthesis capable of having broad consensus and sharing in this Parliament. It is clear that the classic formula of producing wealth to redistribute today for the future is insufficient. At least for me, this is clear and calls for a reformist political profile. Otherwise, we will not be able to get out of the growth rebound at 6 percent with the ability to consolidate a steady growth of at least 2 percent. I want to make another example of a reformist political profile that I think is appropriate to define the path that leads us to achieve the goals we have set ourselves as a country. I think of a historical distance from Italy with other countries, which is called a productivity gap. President Draghi, here too, has set a new point or - better - that needs a political interpretation. He spoke of the recovery of total factor productivity, an indicator that measures the overall efficiency of an economy that decreased by 6.2 percent between 2001 and 2019, against a general increase at European level. Of course: we have witnessed the insufficiency of the classical definition of productivity (GDP per unit of product, or hours worked per unit of product and again the graphs are merciless). But what was 100 if not the largest public money-funded intervention that went to act directly on the classic definition of productivity, when verified data on the field tell us that, every ten workers who retired at 100, were hired one or two? We should have seen an improvement in productivity, but this did not happen. This means that the classic concept does not fully describe the problem. Draghi introduces into the political debate the concept of total productivity of factors, and this applies to us politicians, but also to employers' and trade union associations. I don't want to talk about economic theories, but get straight to the point: justice, competition and public administration are the reforms that contribute to increasing the productivity of work in our country. I'll add another one. Article 46 of the Constitution states that "For the purposes of the economic and social elevation of work and in harmony with the requirements of production, the Republic recognises the right of workers to cooperate, in the manner and within the limits laid down by law, in the management of undertakings." It is an unimplemented article, a major gap with Europe's strong economy, namely the German economy. I would like to conclude with another remark that I believe should be the subject of urgent consideration on how to ensure that PNRR resources are a flywheel for private investment. There is a need to put this issue in the foreground at all institutional levels, because we are talking about huge resources that will come for public investment, but that must represent an overall opportunity for growth for our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u38	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Amending Note to the Economic and Financial Document, which is extremely important in view of the budgetary law, contains some interesting and positive details. It is good that the Document notes that policy is and will remain expansionary until GDP and employment have recovered not only the crisis, but also the lack of growth compared to the 2019 level. These conditions, according to the Document, will be met in 2024, although according to the Court of Auditors this forecast could be optimistic, considering, for example, our dependence on public debt. The Italian economy, as the document indicates, will certainly also be favoured by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as an opportunity to relaunch in the key of environmental and social sustainability, as underlined also by the third recommendation of the Council of the European Union, even if the PNRR presents important criticalities precisely on the environmental part, which I have highlighted many times at the time (and I will do so again this time). It should be pointed out that revenue from the revision of environmental taxes and the reform of environmentally harmful subsidies should be used to reduce other burdens on the productive sectors. But it should be specified that these must be environmentally sustainable production activities in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the "do not significant harm" principle, according to which no significant damage should be done to the environment. We always forget this; especially now the goals of sustainable development have been forgotten, because, due to the desire to grow and increase our productivity, we have left the environment behind. Investment in research, innovation and education are also positive. It is in this direction that the commitment of public resources must be directed to support private initiatives and, through public-private partnerships, to actions whose social and environmental impacts are evident and measurable, with the adoption of new investment assessment criteria that integrate the traditional economic and financial parameters, in relation to the new social and environmental framework. In addition, the document deals with the environmental impact assessment of projects included in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the National Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC). We must be careful, however, because in this case an account is the optimization of administrative procedures and an account is - for example - the cut-off of consultations and terms relating to the procedures of EIA or the opinion of the superintendence, which no longer appears to be binding, as we have read and therefore approved in the last decree simplifications and in the act of government transposing the directive on the promotion of the use of renewables. Again with regard to simplification, I also recall that it is serious that the adoption of maritime planning has been postponed for at least a year - it is another thing I always talk about - while we are moving forward with Pitesai, which is the Plan that reactivates the drills and that gives the start to research and exploration of hydrocarbons along the coasts and protected areas. There had been some suspensions, but today those iters will be reopened and therefore we will no longer defend what we have declared in the PNRR and what we declare every time; we are not doing the green deal, but we are doing green washing. The risk, as expressed also by the protest of the young, is that all these intentions and all these measures translate precisely into government green washing: to show that attention is paid to environmental issues, but in reality nothing or very little changes. Investing in gas is - for example - a hazard that risks compromising the ecological transition [[Applause]] And so we want to run: but where do we want to go? Finally, if I consider it positive that NADEF stresses the particular importance of sustainable and integrated mobility, both of persons and goods, and that public investment will have to contribute to making the Italian infrastructure system more modern and sustainable, able to respond to the challenge of decarbonisation of the energy system, it is not tolerable that it has been added at the last moment, among the draft laws related to NADEF and therefore to the next budget law, a further bill, which has already been discussed and which have already mentioned my colleagues with whom I have helped to write the motion for a resolution; I refer to the bill laying down provisions for the implementation of differentiated autonomy, as referred to in Article 116 (3) of the Constitution. This bill also concerns the environment which, like health and training, is an integral part and is a right of our Constitution. More in detail, we protect the environment, the ecosystem and cultural heritage. If we want to give the environment to the regions, on this too the reform Cartabia has already provided for the concert with the Ministry for Regional Affairs and Self-Government and the opinion of the unified Conference, without considering the improcability for appeals. No extension is foreseen for environmental crime and environmental disaster. In conclusion, I shall abstain from voting because, although there are positive initiatives within the Note, Parliament has not been given time to go into the details. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u40	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u41	Mr President, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document is a preparatory instrument to the budget law, which is essential for the economic and financial planning of the country in the coming years. At its start, the Draghi Government had to face a situation characterized by economic data that were absolutely distonic and worrying and conservative compared to what analyzed in the DEF presented last year by the Conte Government, where a careless and controversial optimism had painted a much more rosy reality on which to base the programming. The current Government has been able to interpret the situation of the economic context of our country in a more realistic and lucid, more prudential way, and NADEF today sees modified the economic data indicated in the DEF in a remarkably positive way, showing a resumption of the system Country that until a few months ago was hopeless. This happens thanks to the measures taken by the new Government to allow the resumption of work and economic activities; to the excellent success of the vaccination campaign - to date it has covered with at least one dose 83% of the Italian population over 12 - to the PNRR presented in the manner and in the expected time; to the authority of our President of the Council in Europe and in the world and to the resilience of the Italian people. Economic data indicate that real GDP growth in the first half of the current year exceeded the forecast, with a bouncing of 6% compared to 4.5% assumed by the April DEF. It is an important and fundamental fact to give confidence to investments and to instill hope in the country. The approach and vision that our budgetary policy will adopt in the coming years through a strategy of consolidation of public finance that will be based on GDP growth stimulated by investments and reforms foreseen by the PNRR, such as incentives granted through tax credit; measures that must be structural, secure and distributed over time. We need measures that fly our economy and create a multiplier effect. That is why we ask for the extension of the superbonus to 110% until the end of 2023, like that of the bonus facades. We also call for the tax credit for research and development not to be often called into question and a source of assessment by the Revenue Agency, which determines or does not determine the goodness of the project, entering into the substance of the project. Our businesses and our families need security, certain rules, structural rules and design. They also need to make serious planning to restart, as well as - it is true - they need to pay less taxes and to have a simplified system, with as little bureaucracy as possible. These days we are talking about tax reform. The draft delegation law presented to the Council of Ministers has absorbed the lines and principles of the proposals made by Forza Italia for a simpler tax system, based on growth, with reduction of the tax wedge, with the remodulation of the Irpef echelons, the reduction of the rates, the overcoming of the IRAP and, above all, with the clear intention of President Draghi not to increase the tax pressure. Tax reform is one of the 20 draft laws related to the budget law to complement the maneuver itself, which will be linked to another 19 draft laws, some already launched in Parliament, of an economic, financial, industrial, social and cultural nature, in order to advance at the same time the different sectors in an overall framework of reforms. It will be essential to focus on the new plan for active policies, including the revision of citizenship income - we continue to repeat it and we do not do it in a spirit of contradiction, because it is the data that tells us that it does not work as it is done - with the adoption of a system that distinguishes income support to those who really need it from active labour policies, for which instead we must invest in training, updating skills, positioning and repositioning in the labour market. [[Applause]] The unemployment rate is still very high and unchanged compared to the April forecast, which stands at 9.6 percent, and the forecast is not even among the pinkest for 2024, with a still high rate of 7.7%. Therefore, the reform of social shock absorbers and the cross-fertilisation of supply and demand must also be ensured. In the NADEF are also highlighted criticalities and unknowns that must not be overlooked, from the shortage of raw materials to the strong increases in the cost of the same, from the increase of the energies to the financial tensions in China and the fragility of the real estate sector, that will affect not little the cost of the productions and their slowing down. This is unfortunately what is happening, for example, in the automotive sector: according to an analysis company, between 2021 and 2022 there is a risk of losing 13.5 million cars in terms of global production due to the difficult availability of microprocessors, a damage due to the economic situation, which would have a significant impact on the growth of the economy. However, there is also a problem in the medium and long term with a view to ecological transition dictated by European directives which, however, must take account of social and economic sustainability. In order to cope with the cessation of the endothermic engine by 2035 we must already start today with the production of electric cars, which involves an estimate of loss in Italy of 70,000-100,000 employed only in the production sector, which to date employs 350,000 people. It will therefore be necessary to support the ecological transition carefully in time and in ways; vice versa, there will be strong and serious employment and economic repercussions with corresponding consequences on the state budget. While not hiding the possible unknowns dictated also by a dynamic of the pandemic still partially unpredictable, the perspectives indicated in the NADEF nevertheless outline a scenario of growth. What reassures us is the explicit intention to give an expansive footprint to fiscal policy, until GDP recovers the lack of growth compared to the level of 2019, but it will have to go even further, because we all remember the weak growth of those years due to lack of investment and support for our production system. It is true that the Parliamentary Budget Office, in its validation of NADEF, hinders optimism with respect to the decline in public debt and that is why we must run, run and run with reforms and distinguish, as President Draghi did, the good debt from the bad one. The pandemic marked a watershed. We believe that the government is heading in the right direction and that is why we continue to go with him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u42	Senator De Lucia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u43	Mr President, as we know, the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document is in line with the budgetary law and has, in essence, the most recent effects on structural reforms and economic policy interventions implemented by the Government in recent years, thus updating the estimates of the macroeconomic framework for the current year and the next three years, as well as the policy objectives as compared to those contained in the DEF last April. Note 2021 is accompanied by a number of annexes containing the policy reports on investment expenditure for each State budget expenditure mission and the progress reports on the implementation of the relevant multiannual laws. A summary of the multiannual expenditure laws is also attached to the report. In a specific section of the summary framework, the survey of all the multiannual contributions entered in the State budget is shown. It is also accompanied by a programmatic report, which indicates the interventions aimed at reducing, eliminating or reforming tax expenditure in whole or in part unjustified, or overcome in the light of the changed social or economic needs, but also those which overlap with spending programmes having the same purpose and which the Government intends to implement through the maneuver of public finance. Finally, at the same time as the Note, a report is presented on the results achieved in the field of measures to combat tax and tax evasion, distinguishing between taxes established and collected, as well as between the different types of initiation of the investigation procedures. NADEF 2021 envisages a scenario of growth of the Italian economy and of gradual reduction of the deficit and the public debt. The intonation of fiscal policy remains expansive over the next two years and then becomes gradually more focused on reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio. The vision behind the government's new macroeconomic forecasts for 2022-2024 is positive, despite the prospects for further recovery of GDP in the coming quarters are linked to the evolution of the pandemic and world demand and will also be influenced by the material and component deficiencies and the strong increases in energy prices recorded in recent months, as well as by the fragility of the real estate sector and the consequent financial tensions in China, which could have repercussions on the world economy. There is therefore a real possibility of gradually recovering normal levels of openness in social, cultural and sporting activities, which will contribute to achieving the pre-crisis level of quarterly GDP by the middle of next year. Following this first stage, the phase of real economic expansion will begin, which will bring GDP and employment growth well above the pace of the last decade. My report, from now on, will focus on the growth guidelines for the sectors of culture, school, university and research. In the first analysis, a draft law is in the process of final approval which simplifies the way in which certain regulated professions are engaged. These are the so-called qualifying degrees, which allow the newly graduate to be able to practice the profession without waiting for the time of passing the state exam. In the field of high training, companies that support financially, therefore through grants, training initiatives aimed at the development and acquisition of managerial skills, is recognized a contribution in the form of tax credit, usable exclusively in compensation, with particular attention for small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to promote development and enhance the attractiveness of universities in the Mezzogiorno, legally recognised state and non-state universities that do not exceed 9,000 members, a total contribution of 2 million is allocated in 2021. As a result, budgetary resources will increasingly be directed towards investment and expenditure on research, innovation and education. In order to support the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises and those operating in the agricultural chain, the appropriate budgetary funds for the granting of guarantees have been refinanced. A total of 2.7 billion in 2021 and 0.1 billion in 2023 were authorised for exemption from social security and welfare contributions, for the benefit of self-employed workers and professionals in the tourism, thermal baths and trade sectors, as well as the cultural and entertainment sectors and businesses in the agricultural, fishing, aquaculture and shipowning industries. With regard to day care services, the objective is to ensure that at least 33% of the population of children resident in the age group 3 to 36 months can benefit by 2026 of the service on a local basis. Measures will also be introduced to increase the transport of disabled students from primary and secondary schools at first grade. For the school, university and research sector, particular attention should be paid to measures to reduce the epidemiological risk in the 2021-2022 school year and to ensure the orderly start-up and continuity of teaching. In addition, resources have been allocated for research promotion, technological innovation and the fund for enrichment and expansion of training provision is refinanced and for equalization measures to support school institutions in the management of the emerging situation and in the development of activities designed to enhance the extracurricular training offer, the recovery of basic skills and the consolidation of disciplines. There are also a number of sectoral reforms based on regulatory changes in specific areas or economic activities to improve the regulatory framework, including in particular a definition of environmental criteria for cultural events, together with a package of reforms in the field of education covering, in particular, the recruitment of teachers and the system of technical and professional institutions, as well as the university, with particular attention to graduation classes and doctoral courses. Significant will also be the commitment - and for this I express particular satisfaction - for the workers of the show. I therefore feel it is appropriate to stress here that the Senate Commissions 7a and 11a have begun a comprehensive review of the legal provisions on entertainment and the instruments in favour of workers in the sector. For example, the National Register of Performing Professionals will be established at the Ministry of Culture, the skills of the Performing Observatory will be expanded and the activation of specific services for the entertainment workers will be asked to the INPS. Finally, in NADEF it is well reported that the Italian Science Fund is set up, with a budget of 50 million in 2021 and 250 million annually from 2022, to promote the development of basic research. I therefore think it is appropriate to take the opportunity of this significant funding to congratulate the physicist Giorgio Parisi, recently awarded the Nobel Prize. [[Applause]] , an extraordinary event if we consider that after sixty-two years it is the first time that the coveted prize is awarded to an Italian who has done most of his work in Italy. [[Applause]] I am therefore quoting this increase in funding for science, so that it may indeed be not only good news, but also with the hope that, together with the award of this extraordinary Nobel Prize, it will help to improve effectively and once and for all the situation of research in Italy which so badly needs to be supported. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u45	Mr President, this Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, as is often the case with these kinds of documents, is very good in its presentation, narration and forecasts (we have a lot of good predictions), but in what we can touch with hand things are very different. The media, which are deployed almost all in total uncritical support to the Government, have praised in particular the spectacular increase in gross domestic product, estimated at 6% this year. We must see if we will get there, but we hope that it will be at this level, because Brothers of Italy is primarily in favour of Italy, not of this or of that Government; indeed, we hope that it will also be more than 6%. The other thing that is said to us, greatly strengthened by the media, is that even public debt falls: an extraordinary miracle, announced many times over the years and never happened, for the truth, if not long ago. Therefore, if it happens now in such a difficult time it would really be an extraordinary occasion and worthy of the utmost praise for those who have determined it. But let's go see what's going on. So there is a problem with the 6% increase in gross domestic product: this increase - which we still have to verify but which is expected - comes after a drop of about 9% in 2020, so this recovery of 6% is partial. By the way, the balance is not 3%, because when you go down 9 percent you go down from 100 to 91, and 6 percent of 91 is not 6, but a little less. Therefore, always assuming that this forecast is correct, we are still less than 3.6 percent compared to two years ago. Among other things, the drop in gross domestic product of 9% last year, as we well know, is linked to the issue of the pandemic, a fact undoubtedly beyond the control in itself of the governments, but Italy is the country that has had the biggest drop in gross domestic product of the whole European Union. And yes, there are twenty-seven countries, some with weak economies and in difficult situations that have also had a large number of deaths, of infected people and of hospitalized because of Covid. However, despite all being involved in the same pandemic, Italy had less than 9% of GDP (according to some estimates, less than 8.9%); France, which is the worst country after Italy, less 8.1 percent, that is almost 1% better than Italy; Sweden less 2.9 percent; even Ireland has risen by 3%. It can therefore be noticed that the extraordinary rigor observed by previous governments - it must be said that in 2020 there was no current Government - has surely reflected in a spectacular decrease of GDP and therefore of the wealth of the country, with many companies that have been in difficulty, others that have closed or have moved their productions, and there have been many lost jobs. And this in the face of pandemic numbers that are absolutely no better than those of other countries, in fact they are often worse in terms of both mortality and lethality. A second aspect of which much has been said is the incredible fall in public debt of 2021. We do not know how 2021 will end, but we know how the first seven months went, and this is not from some subversive information agency of opposition or who knows what, but from the data of the Bank of Italy. These figures tell us that in the first seven months of this year the public debt has increased by 152.9 billion: it is the largest increase in our country's history; never had there been such a high increase in our history. In 2020 there was a debt of 163 billion, but in the first seven months it had been a little less than this year (151 billion). Then how is it possible to say that the public debt falls when it has risen more than ever in the history of Italy? It is possible because the ratio of public debt to GDP is used, i.e. because of the disastrous fall of last year, there would be an improvement in percentage in relation to the expected gross domestic product. Since, however, Italians, companies and even the State do not pay the things they have to pay as a percentage, but in euros, let's say the figures in euros. Gross domestic product is expected to rise by 6%, which is about 99 billion more wealth than in the past year. That's a lot less than two years ago, but at least compared to last year would be an improvement. What, though, about this 99 billion improvement when debt increases by 152.9 billion? Sounds like a disaster to me. If at the end of the year an entrepreneur can say that he has cashed, with his activity, 99,000 euros more than last year - leaving out the fact that last year was disastrous - but at the same time he has been indebted for 152,900 euros, it is a disastrous year, because despite the improvement of the receipts, he has impoverished of 53,900 euros more than what he has earned. This is a very worrying situation. To play mathematical games about the relationship with GDP is really a little worrying, because you want to pass the message that everything is okay. If, however, this debt-to-gross domestic product ratio is so important - and undoubtedly so - we have to say that this debt, even if it falls - it is said - to 153.6 percent (this is the forecast) in the course of this year, two years ago it was at 134, so from 2019 to 2021 we will have an increase in debt of 19 percent. I want to remind you that there have been only two biennials in the history of Italy in which - in percentage terms, not in absolute terms - the debt was greater and these two biennials were 1918-1920, that is, the First World War, with all the enormous difficulties that have been after (among which the Spanish epidemic, which made 100 million deaths all over the world, decidedly much more than the Covid) and 1940-1942, that is the beginning of the Second World War, with all that it meant. This means that in all the other biennials of the history of Italy there has been a better trend. Here again, passing the present one for a great moment is good for the newspapers that support the Government, but the reality is unfortunately very different. Not all GDP is good, because when GDP is produced by generous donations from the Government, which in some cases are due and fair, when it comes to repaying the damage to those whose activities have been closed by state laws is fine, but when it comes to relief payments, such as citizenship income, it is not that it is all healthy. We are in a situation in which our companies and individual workers are put in serious difficulty by a number of factors, such as the huge increase in the price of energy that we are recording in recent months and which is set to rise again. Well, the rise in energy prices is linked very significantly to the European Union's political decision, also supported by this Government, to further cut carbon dioxide emissions, which has increased emissions rights, i.e. companies have to pay - it is written in the same report that we are looking at - from EUR 24 to EUR 61 in recent weeks. That means our bills are bound to increase again. How can we compete in this situation? I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is one aspect that is missing altogether: there is a serious deficit that is worrying, that should worry everyone in our country, that is not only economic, of course, it is not about public debt; I am talking about the birth deficit. [[Applause]] Year after year, for thirteen years, we have had a reduction in births, and there is no remedy because it is reflected in the future. When born in 2020 will be in the fertility age, there will be fewer born, even at the same rate of fertility that it is entirely questionable that it remains the same. It is very serious, and on this in the Update Note to our examination there is nothing, except a hint of the universal single cheque that, as we have already seen, in many cases significantly reduces what many families receive, while other families that had nothing continue to have nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u46	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u47	Mr President, the Update Note contains two good news that must be highlighted, as many Members have already done. The first is that the economy in 2021 is better than forecast: plus 6 percent instead of 4.5 estimated a few months ago. It is a good thing, however, that we must take some elements of caution: first, it is a bounce, because we make more 6 after the minus 8.9 of 2020, and it is a bounce that leaves Italy a little behind, at the end of 2021, than the recovery of the euro zone. It is a very significant recovery, higher than expectations, but on which some unknowns weigh prospectively, rightly highlighted in the Note: first of all, the pandemic, because the numbers of Italy are positive both on the side of the contagions and on the front of the vaccination - and this must be written on the merit of the Government and the policy of rigour that has been followed and that we have supported - but we are not out of the emergency. The second unknown concerns the rise in the price of raw materials, energy and many semi-finished products, which is slowing the global recovery. The figures that the International Monetary Fund will make known in the coming days will show a downward filing of the growth prospects at global level, also linked to these factors. The third point to look carefully at in a recovery phase is the social wounds, open and aggravated by the pandemic, with which we have to deal. 2020 has recorded one million more poor and in July of this year the employed were still half a million less than the pre-Covid figure of two years before, and 80% of these jobs that are missing in the call are self-employed, artisans, traders, professionals who have ceased their activity and who have not yet been involved in the recovery. The second good news - in addition to better growth than forecast - is that public finances are better than expectations: the deficit at 9.4 instead of 11.8 is an important figure on public debt, which was expected to increase and at the end of 2021 should instead be below the 2020 level. It is precisely this good performance of the public accounts that allows the Government to set an expansive maneuver over the three years, with significant numbers exceeding a point of GDP of trend programmatic differential, without asking Parliament for a further deviation, which has not happened for a long time. This, moreover - I stress this - by planning a net debt slightly lower over the three-year period than was planned in the April DEF: a figure which naturally strengthens our credibility at European level at a delicate stage of transition, in which the rules of economic coordination at Community level will be discussed again, but which must be stressed in this debate. This expansive maneuver of the Government that should be worth in net terms 22 billion in 2022, 29 in 2023 and 24 in 2024, we believe must be strongly characterized by a sign of coherence and complementarity with the strategic objectives, investments and reforms that we have written in the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. You have to do it on two sides. The first concerns the growth and development of the country; we are at most 6 percent in 2021, we will grow in a consistent way also in 2022, but the real bet is to take a path of development much more sustained than the substantial stagnation that the country has suffered in the last twenty years. I believe that the choices we are going to make in the budgetary manoeuvre must be consistent with the objective of further accelerating these positive numbers. We can and must do so on the demand side, stimulating investment from private ones. This calls with it the theme of incentives for sustainable construction, starting with the superbonus that President Draghi has undertaken to extend to 2023, transition 4.0, a package of incentives for the investments of families and businesses we are asking for the extension of, but that I believe should also be reorganised in a medium-term perspective. The energy regeneration of buildings, as well as the digitisation of the industrial sector, is a medium-term objective and we, beyond what we will do for 2023, must give certainty to operators even in the medium term starting to discuss and decide what to do after the superbonus and after transition 4.0. We need to stimulate the consumption of households, and this calls for reflection on what to do in an inflationary recovery phase. In fact, expensive energy is an issue that will not stop in the last quarter of 2021 and a structural shift on the general taxation of system charges is needed. You need to face the expensive energy not only for the most fragile part of the company that benefits from the light bonus and the gas bonus. There is a problem of the middle class that must be protected against the recovery of energy prices and inflation. We must also do so with the start of tax reform, which we believe should start with the Irpef and, in particular, with a cut in the tax wedge, starting with what goes to increase the payroll of workers and also with measures that facilitate the second recipients of income by stimulating supply in the labour market. We must also work for development on the supply side. The theme of industrial policies is addressed in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but there is a lot of work to be done. We need to understand who will carry out public works in a country where the major building players are reduced to a minimum. We need to understand how we help tourism and trade to reorganise after the very hard losses they suffered in 2020. It's still a partial shot. We must support and accompany major sectors of the Italian economy towards the ecological transition, which will be subject to profound changes and we must decide on credit measures for the renewal of the Central Guarantee Fund. However, we must also understand how to make the service of 230 billion loans guaranteed by the State sustainable for many companies that have saved the Italian production system, but that today we must make sustainable for the next few years, avoiding reducing the investment margins. The second aspect of the organisation of the maneuver concerns the development model that we have written in the PNRR on three points: work, welfare and education and environment. The reform of social shock absorbers is central and we must invest in welfare and education, as well as in the National Health System, learning the lesson of the pandemic. The trend on the health fund brings us back to a lower level than in 2019 and the same goes for the school. We must reverse this trend in maneuvering and recover the gap that separates us from other European countries. In conclusion, on the environment, in addition to the extension of incentives for green investment by households and businesses, we believe that a real social fund is needed for the ecological conversion of the economy. We must accompany and support companies and workers, who will be faced with formidable challenges in the coming years, because ecological transition is a necessity, we believe, but it will not be a gala lunch and economic policy must take this into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u48	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u49	Mr President, today we are debating the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, which has very good forecasts. In fact, there is the forecast of a growth of 6% of GDP, which in April seemed to have grown by 4.5%. However, the Note to our examination also contains a number of elements, which make us understand that the idyllic picture painted by the Government is not corresponding to the truth. This picture tells us that the contrast to the pandemic occurs through the compression of citizens' rights, that is through the use of the green pass applied also to the discipline of the job. Therefore, to be able to access the workplace, even in smart working, it will take the green pass, but also to access university lessons, both in presence and at a distance. We have now reached the bottom of irrationality and the node of the issue is essentially the so-called Covid business, which subtracts from our public health as much as 6.2 billion euros, compared to the 7.4 billion euros that are invested for the next few years, according to NADEF. I would remind you that EUR 2.8 billion will be used for the purchase of vaccines, EUR 2.5 billion for the campaign of Commissioner Figlio, EUR 0.7 billion for incentives for vaccinated doctors and EUR 0.2 billion for research on new vaccines against infectious diseases. So we assume that it will be a continuous cycle and that this Covid business will become a business that will last as long as it takes, so that big pharmas can fatten with the money of our debt. On the other hand, ordinary health care accounts for only EUR 400 million for waiting lists. Therefore, compared with 6.2 billion euros for Covid business, public health is responsible for 400 million euros. Just today he closed an emergency room in Gioia Tauro, for lack of doctors. The doctors of 118 have such low salaries that they now reject that kind of assignment and turn to other types of assignments, so much so that we have demedicalized ambulances. Health care in Calabria is a total disaster, but the important thing is that there is a green pass. This is the sanatorium of all evils, especially for local administrators, that is the Presidents of the Region and the mayors, who so did not have to do anything to prepare the security measures and protocols to necessarily associate with the vaccination practice and all other practices. They didn't do anything, and they totally disinterested themselves in the problem, as they wanted. Last year, even in the face of all the investments made for the recovery of the school in safety, their response was to do nothing and to oppose even in a heavy way the Count government. Such idyllic forecasts of GDP growth show no mention of how the restrictions applied through greenpass to citizens' constitutional rights will affect our real economy. A normal family will have to choose whether to pay for tampons or go to the restaurant. [[Applause]] I think he's gonna choose to pay for his tampons and not go to the restaurant. Moreover, paying for swabs to avoid experimental vaccines could also be a garrison for one's own health, which would save the money that is invested and used to cure the frequent adverse events that this Government, or the mainstream information that we are forced to listen to every day, are not properly mentioned, with tones that are likely to cause a civil war to break out shortly. What you are doing is really serious, not to mention what you have done with differentiated autonomy. You have inserted as a link to the DEF a bill on differentiated autonomy, without providing anything to bridge the territorial gap between the North and the South. In fact, no investment is envisaged. I read that 300 million euros are divided between the railway routes Salerno-Reggio Calabria, Verona-Padova and Vicenza-Padova in the Update Note of the DEF. To Salerno-Reggio Calabria will arrive then crumbs. [[Applause]] We are always working in one direction, namely to feed business, privatise and promote forms of discrimination. For school, university and research - the whole education sector, therefore - there are only €1.2 billion and for the containment of the pandemic €600 million. The classes of students, even with disabilities inside, burst: there are even some with 32 students and a serious disabled person. These are facts that come from the territories. Is that how we want to contain the pandemic? Are these the best government solutions? At this point, I have nothing else to add. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it may seem a paradox that with the approval of NADEF there is someone, like myself, who says that there is also a little to worry about. The economy is going very well, as all colleagues have said, and in NADEF the reasons for this growth, which is very strong, are clear, in contrast to the other European economies, but I say that we have to worry a little. I do not mind the fact that the rebound of our GDP is positive, we would miss it, but we must think that this is the result of a rebound compared to the economy of 2019, which had suffered much more losses than other European countries. We therefore have an absolute need to recognise that this growth is due to the ability of our companies to resume work and conquer markets, especially international ones, certainly helped by the expansive maneuvers adopted at national and Community level. We must think that our growth is primarily due to our productive excellences. This year we are excellent in everything: in sport we won everything, while in science yesterday we were awarded a Nobel. We must be proud of this country of ours and of these excellences of ours. [[Applause]] Returning to NADEF, however, we must admit that growth is also due to very favourable international circumstances, that is to say to the ECB's policy, which is keeping interest rates at very low levels (as they never were), and to the Brussels decisions, which suspended any policy of rigour in the budgets of individual states through the temporary framework and launched the recovery plan, which will bring Italy over 200 billion, which we will bring to the ground through the PNRR. These are two fundamental prerequisites, but - and here are the reasons for doubt - the present favourable economic situation will not last forever; on the contrary, it already seems that the monetary policy of the ECB can - indeed, it must - gradually reduce its expansionary stimuli. Our first concern at this time should then be to find a way to consolidate recovery and to make it compatible with development policy, including environmental policy, which will be a powerful growth factor in the near future. With the approval of NADEF, the Government offers us a macroeconomic framework against which future budgetary policies are already indicated, i.e. how taxation will evolve if money is well spent. Let us start from a few clear points: the situation is better than last spring, GDP growth reaches 6% and debt stands at 153.8%, far away from that 160 percent which was a dangerous and worrying limit. The ambition is to maintain high growth even for the next two or three years, because only in this way will we be able to aim to give work to those who have lost it and to the many young people who have not had it (it is more than 3 million citizens). If we want to get close to the employment rates of other European countries, public investment, including those financed by Europe, is not enough, but we need changes in our way of being, from public administration to justice, from school to the labour market, to vocational training towards new technologies. There are some rules that are not touched (presumed for reasons of majority), but that we believe the Government in the future budget law will have to clarify: 100 share, in some respects, and citizenship income. Is it possible that 10 billion will be allocated to citizenship income and 3 billion will be allocated to support businesses in crisis at this time? [[Applause]] There is one issue that emerges and that we also put in the hearing with the Minister this morning. It is not that we are only concerned about the increase in energy costs; we are concerned about the exponential cost of raw materials: they are no longer found, and our companies - as I said this morning - are in danger of closing and stopping orders, because they do not arrive raw materials. Second argument: there is no labour. Whole sectors of our country, in the tertiary sector and in tourism, cannot offer services of a certain level, because it is not personal. There is something, a dystonia, between the real country and the one painted in this NADEF. We rely heavily on the next budget law and on the twenty-one plans related to NADEF, which will be attached, because from there it will be seriously understood whether the government will have taken the right path definitively. There is a time schedule of headaches, in my opinion, many and such are the arguments: let us therefore give our support to the Government and President Draghi, true excellence of our country at this time, and let us not tire with our sterile polemics, because the country needs a man like him! There are some issues that need to be followed up, deepened and improved. He's not an oxymoron. When we talk about it, some of the 5 Star Movimento colleagues jump on the table, but the citizenship income didn't work. Emergency income is another thing and we have always been the first to support those in need, we would miss it, but that system didn't work. It is a clear law: there is a macroeconomic plan that, if it goes on like this, leads people who are sick to feel worse and the one who is well to be better. If this is the design of society we want, because we cannot touch the sacred monsters as income citizenship and quota 100, we say right from the start that we are not, because we want a homogeneous growth throughout the country. Gentlemen of the Government, Mrs Conzatti - whom I thank now, because she was not here before, for her excellent work - we are on the right track. There will be no lack of the convinced, loyal and strong support of Forza Italia for everything that the Government will propose to us in line with what NADEF has illustrated us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u52	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have done an exercise which I think can also serve the few people who are listening. Perhaps someone has done so. I am sure the rapporteur, Mrs Conzatti, will have done so, and I thank her for the work she has done. I went back and looked at the NADEF of 2019, because I needed to be able to understand also the document that was delivered to us by the Parliamentary Bureau of Budget and to understand why in the different pages that follow - apart from the concepts rightly reiterated - the economic situation of Italy stops at a forecast level in 2022, while after the situation it will have to be assessed slowly and with the various passages. I read briefly the first ten lines of the 2019 NADEF, which are the words of the then Minister Gualtieri's report: In the last fifteen months, Italy has gone through a complex phase, in which strong international turmoil has combined with an accentuated discontinuity in national politics and in the most important economic choices. The new Government has recently established itself in a context of low growth and persistent social distress. Despite the important measures taken in recent times, inequalities within our society remain acute and the challenges we face are difficult. Nevertheless, the resilience that Italy has shown even in the most delicate moments at the economic, financial and institutional level provides a solid starting point (...). In this context, Italy can and must make a decisive contribution to the resumption of an inclusive and sustainable development path at European level (...). The low growth of the Italian economy is the result of long-standing structural problems. It was 2019. If we take the hearing of the representatives of the Parliamentary Budget Office and read it, it tells us the same thing. Last year there was still the problem of the virus and this begins with the vaccination campaign, which is deploying its effectiveness. This has made it possible to implement the restrictions imposed on production activities. However, pandemic data remain very high. We are also talking about vaccines and we are adding that, according to estimates by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which were updated last July and which are serving a gradual normalization of the pandemic, the world product is expected to grow. It goes on to talk about the United States, China and the euro area. In the same situation there is the NADEF of 2019. Then we move on to Brent oil whose price, after having recorded a minimum of 16 dollars per barrel in April last year, recovered quickly, reaching little above 80. The Parliamentary Budget Office therefore goes on with the same methodology and it is right, because it is the one that is adopted for the validation of this document, which is then brought to the attention of Parliament. What comes to mind, however, if we make these comparisons between the Update Notes of previous years and the current one, is a solution of continuity of a structural problem of the country that we have been dragging for many years now. As paradoxical as it may seem, it would seem almost a kind of copy-paste, so in the end, one percentage point less, one percentage point more, the scenario is exactly the same. We're still. We are firm because there have not been structural reforms that would have served the country to arrive at a prodromic NADEF to implement the budget so that we can safely say that the situation is of a certain type, there has been an improvement and we are still solid and structured, without having to anticipate that it is important to make the reforms (once there are 27, once 28, once 30, once there is a government program, another time another). We should get to an update note without this, which instead tells us what the situation is, what happened in the year and how far we know we can push us, because we have achieved a series of structural reforms that will serve to implement the PNRR which the previous colleague referred to me. We're talking about a lot of money coming in, which will be crucial. I would also remind my colleagues who have said that the crumbs will come to the South, that nothing will come to the islands, while even in the North they will not be so happy, that we are still talking about a few billion euros, the result of a softening by the European Union, who asked us if we wanted to use these funds: our country replied yes, but we have a list of things to do. The reforms that must be made are fundamental: there are some that need to run much faster than others, otherwise, when it is time to use this money, we will find ourselves completely stuck. Therefore, beyond the forecasts - which, if you read, are completely prudential - the validation is done in four types of way: this is what we say, according to what you say, that responsibility is within Parliament and we must be careful. In fact, if we read well, it is a situation that remains suspended, so we should realize what we have not been able to do in the last twenty years, that is to say to give us an accelerated, a shot in the true sense of the term, in the reforms that serve, in order to implement the restructuring of the country; otherwise, the next Note of update will be in the same situation and, going to examine it, we will see that it will resume the same same concepts, proposing a percentage a little 'up or down, giving a limited forecast over time. This means, of course, that those outside this House have a little bit of fear, from businessmen to the ordinary citizen: the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the one who has the store that sells the bread, the one that has the supermarket or the gas station wonders what the situation will be, what will happen and what the reforms will be. It takes a bit of certainty, not only in the times, but also in the contents, because, if we do not give certainty in the contents to those who are outside, besides not understanding why they are constantly mutinous after years, even if you understand quietly reading... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u54	There's been a mistake, you have two minutes left, please, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u55	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). The important thing in this situation is therefore to give certainty and above all to keep the bar straight, when you decide. We have also seen all the deviations that have been made and all the installments, which on the one hand have not served any purpose, because, if one fails to work, it is not that if he is moved by six months the installment of an expiration folder, but does not work, then six months later he can pay it; if he does not have the money six months before and does not work, he will not have them even six months later. What is important then - it is a wish, but I believe it is essential that it be realized, in addition to the content of the resolution that will be presented, with the whole list of expenditure - is that there is certainty of things and times really faster, so that we do not find ourselves in the situation of having exactly remuted the same thing, with the same words and with these simple oscillations of data, which have been rightly highlighted here by colleagues, but which do not give us the impression of being a strong country anyway. We must be a strong country, especially in external affairs. These things are fine, they are data, algorithms and everything you want, but we have to make choices, even extremely disruptive, that they are a flywheel that we get, maybe in 2022, to say that we did not have a great growth, but that there is no decrease, that finally inequality has been a little lessened, the transport system has improved, the infrastructure has started and they have not got stuck in the TAR, there are no disputes and maybe something is moving. Perhaps, then, the NADEF will no longer be a 130-page document, but only 50 pages, and we can see a more certain future and perhaps some definitive solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u56	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the numbers contained in this DEF Update Note on health, our shield against the emergency and the pandemic. In this NADEF we talk about strengthening the National Health Service and improving access to care and the whole system of prevention that concerns the health of citizens. The figures for this NADEF, the National Health Fund, are 7.5% of GDP in 2020, falling to 7.3 in 2021, and then falling further to 6.1 in the following years. However, the question is a little different, because we start from 123 billion in 2020, we go up to 129 billion in 2021 and then we settle from 2024 to 124 billion. However, it is 9 billion more than the size of the National Health Fund at the start of this parliamentary term, but in 2018 it is less in relation to GDP. We hope that there will not then be the fall after 2022 that we see in this DEF Update Note, because in the years before the ratio to GDP had always been around 6,6%, so we hope that in the coming years there will be an adjustment in that direction, not to fall below those levels. However, a decline is expected and we all hope for it, because for example about 7 billion of the 129 spent in this 2021 are destined to face the pandemic, concern the vaccines, the expenses of the emergency headquarters, the funds for the administration of vaccines and the reduction of the waiting lists that have lengthened during the period when our hospitals have had to cope with the emergency Covid and have not been able to carry out all the routine services that they had always done. Next to the funds allocated within our budget, there are then those who will come from the PNRR, like the 15 billion of mission 6: they will be spent to change our territorial medicine and deal with the critical issues that emerged during the pandemic, but that I and my colleagues in 12a We had already highlighted the Commission before and that only an emergency that had never been seen before in our country and in the world was able to make the honors of the news jump and make it clear to everyone, even in this House. The PNRR lacks the funds for the stabilisation of that staff we hired in emergency, because it was lacking. In the previous ten years, in fact, those who retired had never been replaced, because there are limits and restrictions of the rules that prevent them from coping with the deficiencies, as they have done so far. We realized that we needed more doctors, more nurses, more health workers and more staff for all health professionals. We have hired them, but in precarious form, and for the future we must make sure that there is a valorization of the experience of these precarious ones, because they have acquired skills, knowledge and professionalism on the field and we cannot forget it from tomorrow, when we hope that the emergency Covid is over. [[Applause]] I was saying that the PNRR provides for the reform of territorial medicine, because we have all seen that many regions have missed the figure of the first contact for citizens on the territory. There have been difficulties in the relationship with doctors of general medicine and with pediatricians of free choice, criticality that we have not only highlighted, but that have emerged from all the in-depth facts. A recent report by the Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces also shows that they have been partly the weak link in the chain and that their form of work and their relationship with the National Health Service must therefore be reviewed. [[Applause]] They need to be framed differently: let's consider how and what the best way is, but we definitely need to change something, because something certainly didn't work out. About a year ago the 12th Commission is facing a deal assigned precisely on territorial medicine and what will have to be in the post-Covid era. The criticalities we have highlighted are the same that I think are evident to all, relative to the formation of our doctors - especially of general medicine - (always to return to the previous point) that must be improved and can no longer be entrusted to the Regions and be so different from one point to the other of our territory, as different were the performances and the way to face the pandemic. These figures must also have a university specialization, which guarantees more uniformity, more quality and more qualification for those who come out of this training. We need to strengthen the figure of the family nurse or community nurse, which we introduced last year, but not enough. We have seen that, in the territories where this figure already exists, it is very useful for the whole of territorial medicine: it manages to better follow patients at home (which we should do more and more in the coming years); it manages to limit the access of the so-called white codes to the first aid; therefore it manages to give a response to the need for health of the citizens. This answer cannot be stain of leopard on the national territory: what this pandemic has taught us, which someone already knew and tried to shout unheard, is that health must be equal from Piedmont and the Aosta Valley to Sicily, because it is unacceptable that there are not the same performances and the same needs are not met everywhere on our territory. With the PNRR funds and the resources that we will allocate in the coming years, we must ensure that all these inequalities are eliminated and that the same rights are payable everywhere. [[Applause]] If we strengthen territorial medicine, however, we must not forget that we cannot impoverish hospitals, which had already been undersized in the past, because we had to strengthen territorial medicine. The latter had not been upgraded everywhere and, now that we do, we do not try to make savings always using health care as if it were an ATM as in the past, still reducing hospital performance, because they are already at the minimum level. So let us not unbalance our health system on the other hand. Let us not forget something important, which happened during this pandemic: I am referring to the need to meet also the needs of mental health. I cannot forget what a colleague told me yesterday about the high suicide rate in her city and region, especially among teenagers. We have done an assigned deal with the 7th Commission on how young people and adolescents have dealt with the pandemic, how they have dealt with distance learning, and we have seen that the most fragile have had the worst consequences. We had already allocated funds for psychological support to our children, but in practice we did not get to have figures everywhere to support our students, so let us watch and ensure that the regions put into practice the guidelines given by Parliament. [[Applause]] We pay attention not only for today, but also for the future, because the fragility of our young people we have known today, but has deeper roots than those that came out with the Covid. Another important part of the puzzle in medicine tomorrow will be the emergency-territorial urgency. The link between territorial medicine and our hospitals must be reviewed: all operators in the sector say that it does not work and there are critical issues. We're working on it, but we have to do everything we can to get this piece of the puzzle to go in its place and perform its function in the best way, enhancing all the professionalism that work there. What is important, in short, is the lesson that we should all have learned from this pandemic for the future. Today the emergency has been an epidemic due to a viral disease, an infection; tomorrow it could be the aging of the population and the chronic diseases to be faced and cured, which will be more and more widespread. We will be able to do so if we have learned this lesson, because what is important is to be prepared in every way to deal with the future emergency, whatever it may be. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u58	The debate is closed. I would like to inform my colleagues who have received the Presidency and have already been printed out and distributed the motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senators Ciriani and other Senators, and No 2, tabled by Senators Dell'Olio, Rivolta, Damiani, Manca, Errani, Conzatti and Steger. The rapporteur, Senator Conzatti, does not intend to speak in her reply. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to indicate which motion for a resolution he intends to accept on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u59	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I accept motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u60	The Government has therefore declared that it accepts motion for a resolution No 2. It is therefore now time for 30 minutes to table any amendments to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u63	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, fortunately, the numbers of this Update Note give us a better picture than was expected a few months ago. On the one hand, the productive fabric has given great proof of resistance and resilience and has put in place an extraordinary desire to restart; on the other hand, it must be said that this Government has created the conditions for this to happen, not only thanks to the vaccination campaign and the wisdom with which the reopenings have been managed, but also to the idea of a Government that gives confidence to the citizens, because it focuses on the real issues. We know, however, that there is no shortage of unknowns. First of all, I really hope that the extension of the green pass to work places will be sufficient to give the tail blow to the vaccination campaign, reaching as soon as possible immunity of flock, and this also to protect winter tourism (in this regard, we must reflect on the access to facilities and hotels by customers who have the temporary green pass buffer). Then there is the international problem of raw materials, starting with energy supplies. The interventions envisaged by the government address the issue, but it is clear that there will still be a backlash on families and businesses. There is also the problem of inflation growth, linked both to the question of raw materials and to international economic rebound. It is therefore important that these issues are addressed in order to protect GDP growth. Another issue between the present and programming is the issue of employment. We are in a strange paradox: on the one hand, we show levels of growth for the first time above the European average; on the other hand, jobs are lost; on the other hand, there is a difficulty in finding skilled workers in services, crafts and other sectors. The Italian employment rate in 2019 was around 63%, in France at 72 and in Germany at 81, then the pandemic exposed all the delays and limitations of our labour market. The low employment rate is therefore one of the roots of the problem of low growth over the last 20 years, while the other is the limits of our labour market. A reform is therefore needed which, in the context of strengthening social shock absorbers, makes the matching of supply and demand more dynamic. At the same time, there is a need for massive action on active policies, on training that is truly linked to the world of work, and on effective family and labour reconciliation policies. Moreover, we also need a new policy for the repatriation of young people living abroad, starting from academic backgrounds but embracing all the professional skills we are currently lacking. This Update Note focuses on policies up to 2024, and yet we must work on the following from now on, how to create, that is, the conditions to hold together growth and budgetary policies. Our public debt, which grew out of proportion during the pandemic, runs the risk of not being entirely sustainable when interest rates so low and the ECB's umbrella will be reduced. It is true, as the Minister recalled, that 2022 is the year of the peak of the debt-to-GDP ratio and that then the decanting phase will begin, but the theme is how to create internal conditions freed as much as possible from international variables, so that after 2024 Italy does not return to a growth below the EU average and instead return to a season of budgets and primary surpluses. Less debt, in fact, means more autonomy for Italy to define its budgetary policies and economic policies in general. Of course, structural policies are involved here: from the reform of justice, after the law of delegation, to that of tax simplifications to that of the labour market, and of course it has to do with the way in which we will be able to spend the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, identifying projects that put the emphasis on the famous multiplier. It also has a great deal to do with the ability to invest in research and development, as the Nobel Prize in Physics Giorgio Parisi recalled yesterday. In conclusion, Mr President, I think that we are on the right track, that we have a much better picture than what was expected a year ago; we can then discuss elements of context - for example, I believe that the re-introduction of cashback is not a priority and that 110% must be reduced to standards and the time of reporting and delivery of work to contract the rise in intervention costs - but what is more important is to work on the perspective, on the removal of the elements that have made Italy the country with the lowest growth of the last twenty-five years among the great Western countries. It is with these wishes that I am voting in favour of our Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u66	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document is the second important economic planning document that has decisive improvements in our economy, certainly dictated by the resumption of activities, made possible - I repeat - by the removal of social restrictions and by the great awareness, demonstrated by the majority of Italians, compared to vaccination and the use of the green pass. These are really the prerequisites on the basis of which the economy can resume and respond to the forecasts that NADEF brings back to all of us. Economic support has not been lacking since 2020 and has been increasingly targeted towards growth, and NADEF confirms this: there has been a decided rebound of 1.2 percentage points of GDP, which is found in the Note at 6%. Of course, as I have heard in this House, it is a rebound that must surely be stabilized and maintained at very high rates and we certainly have not recovered the total loss of 8.9 percent of GDP due to the pandemic, but we will recover it within a few months. I do not agree with those who say that growth is based solely on net debt; it is based on a complex system and precisely the exit from this crisis demonstrates this. On the supply side, this is demonstrated by the resilience shown by the economy in the service, industry and construction sectors, certainly driven by the 110% measure that, as announced, will be extended, even if not made structural. This is also demonstrated by the support on the consumption side; households and businesses reacted very well, making available their accumulated savings rate during the pandemic, and businesses, in the public sector and in the private sector, supporting economic growth with a great propensity to invest. We must not forget that much of the investment is financed from the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Half of the investments planned for 2024 will be financed by the Recovery and Resilience Plan. This obliges us to reflect on the strategic importance of the effective, complete, total and effective implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan because NADEF rests and bets on GDP growth as a key to resolving the crisis and also restore debt to the medium-term objective. Of course, there are other risk factors; one of them, it is worth pointing out, was the issue of the increase in raw materials, semi-finished products and products, but also and above all in the energy sector, with particular reference to gas. In NADEF's forecasts inflation has a rise in the first three months to 1.2 and, on an annual basis, to 1.5% and we expect it to be temporary, not definitive. However, to ensure that these forecasts are real, immediate and timely European solutions are needed. I was just reading President Draghi's statement about a European gas storage centre. It seems to me that these solutions are heading in the right direction to protect Europe as a whole. The macroeconomic framework thus tends, with unchanged measures, to improve on the GDP and net debt side, which is proposed on a reduction path up to 2.1% on the trend side in 2024. As a result, the debt-to-GDP ratio is also reported faster than expected in NADEF on a reduction path that sees it at pre-crisis levels, starting from 2030. The macroeconomic and public finance framework is interesting because it gives us a glimpse into the future. From this point of view, it is very clear that the next two years will continue to be supported by an expansionary policy capable of giving the right support to families, businesses and the flywheel of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but that as we are subject to obligations that will come into force at European level, obviously in a different way from those we know about the Stability and Growth Pact, they will have to return to us policies that are more neutral from 2024 onwards and, from the following years, to greater attention to the reduction of the GDP debt ratio and the generation of primary surpluses. On the front of the primary surpluses I would like to say that it is true that current expenditure must be kept under control, that it must be in relation to the new investments that we will generate with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that will in turn have to be supported. On the revenue side, I would also like to point out an increase in revenue thanks to the fight against tax evasion. On this point I would like to stress that the real fight against tax evasion is the submerged one; the aim should not be revenue, because having as its goal the revenue means hitting the emerging. It's too easy to control the surface. Surely it must be done, compliance must be improved, but the real challenge of Italy on the side of evasion is intelligence on the submerged, putting tax savings even at the disposal of a lower tax burden. On the deficit side, I would like to say that the policy deficit is greater than the trend of more than one percentage point over the next three years and that this greater deficit will be made available for new policies that we will draw in the next budget law and that already in the resolution that we are about to adopt are outlined. It's definitely a complicated time for Italy. Our vote in support of NADEF is definitely positive, because we are convinced that the favourable thrust of monetary and financial policies, the reactivation of consumer optimism and also the great opportunity of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are definitely a positive factor. However, as the Parliamentary Bureau noted, which validated the macroeconomic framework for 2021 and 2022, the risks should not be forgotten. On the part of the Budget Committee, the Assembly and the Government there must be careful monitoring of the risks, because the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience is the real, unique and last great occasion for Italy and we absolutely cannot afford to miss the application, implementation and implementation of the works, reforms and the political project to reabsorb the inequalities foreseen in the PNRR. Mr President, I believe that social preconditions are needed. The climate of national and European stability in this respect helps, but I believe that there is a need for a good government, wise and forward-looking, and that there is also a need for strong European roots. We are in the wake of a project which is not just about us, but which is much wider and which the Conference on the Future of Europe is drawing up. This is the direction Italy must look towards, to return to be really strong and we all enjoy the well-being we have had knowledge of in other phases of our lives. Mr President, our vote will therefore be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u69	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to begin by announcing, as Senator Ciriani has already done, our amendment to motion for a resolution No 2, accepted by the Government, concerning the revision of the cadastral extimes. We therefore propose to amend this motion for a resolution, because after what has happened in recent hours, with the absence of the representatives of the League in the Council of Ministers and with the very important statements of some political leaders, we thought that today's motion for a resolution contained some further deepening of the revision of the bans. On the contrary, unfortunately, we find nothing in relation to this topic and therefore we have proposed ourselves, as a force of opposition, always in a proactive way, to clarify well this aspect related to the cadastral extims. So let us imagine and hope that there will be some positive feedback after the official presence of our amendment to the motion for a resolution. Mr President, in addition to this we want to stigmatize the usual attitude of the Government and the majority in terms of the ways and times to deepen these issues, which are always very difficult, as my colleague, Senator De Bertoldi, said. I have also heard colleagues from the League stigmatizing this attitude of the Government, which we always find, in terms of timing. I would like to remind you that only this morning Mr Franco came to the Commission, at the hearing, to make us known to NADEF and after a few hours we are already here, in the House, for the approval of the document. We therefore note, with great regret, the increasingly marginal role of Parliament, which is reduced to an appendix of the Government, when instead we should be in a parliamentary Republic, in which Parliament is sovereign, as an expression of the people. Coming to the contents of the Note in our examination, we cannot fail to note the enthusiastic tones that the Government has used and which we also find in the rapporteur's report. We read a GDP increase of 6% on an annual basis, 7.6 percent on a nominal basis and a forecast even more rosy than 5.6%. We also read about gross domestic product in net growth up to 2024, when it is expected to be 1.9 percent. Again, the deficit declines from estimated 11.8 to 9.4 and net debt is falling to 2.1% by 2024. In short, it seems that they are all roses and flowers at this time, but it is a pity that these numbers meet with a different reality that we find on the territory. The truth is that in the last two years the net debt has increased by about 20 percentage points and today we are just trying not to send Italy to collapse. What we are most sorry to see is that the numbers you are bragging about today are only a symptom of a recovery that comes late and not for your merits, but for the strength of the Italian people, who are not accustomed to surrender even though you have abandoned it to themselves. These optimistic predictions of yours conceal the fact that if we are in this situation it is because of the governments that in the last two years have managed the emergency and wasted billions in tips and prebende, in contempt of the real needs of the country. This waste of money is not a thesis invented by Brothers of Italy. Even the Head of State has called the Chambers to a more rational and disciplined recourse to the decree of urgency and to the respect of the limits of content of the measures enacted. Translated in simple terms, what Brothers of Italy have always denounced is put in black and white. In all the emergency measures adopted in recent years, clauses and measures that with the emergency Covid had nothing to do with and financed from deficit resources have been included. It is the same debt that you boast today to reduce (and less badly, we would say). It should also be remembered that your optimistic forecasts are linked to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is based on reforms we still know little about and that little we know of does not certainly make us sleep peacefully. Let us think of the reform of the tax system, on which we understand that you are already fighting, for a change. We have denounced how behind this reform there is a profound revision of the cadastral system, aimed at increasing taxes on the house (the amendment we are presenting goes precisely in this direction), even if yesterday President Draghi reassured us saying that the taxpayer will not notice anything. We hope so. We have a feeling that behind your beautiful words and optimistic predictions you hide the total void. You are talking about reducing the Irpef and taxes on labour, but yesterday the Court of Auditors told us at the hearing that there is no resources to do so. Based on the use of PNRR resources, but in fact there are still no tools to enable the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to be effective and efficient. You say that the recovery is also due to the increase in the vaccination campaign, but forget to secure those places where the infection is easier, with or without vaccine, such as public transport or schools. You boast of an increase in employment, without taking into account the fact that these are time contracts and data less than the pre-pandemic period. Speaking of work, continue to defend this blessed income of citizenship, which has created very few jobs compared to your own expectations. In practice, you only make so much confusion when the Italians ask you facts and concreteness. Let's try again to ask concrete and truthful interventions for Italian families and companies. With today's resolution, we call on the Government to commit itself to a tax reform that really reduces the burden on businesses and families. We think, in particular, of the tax wedge, since taxes on labour represent the greatest obstacle to the recruitment of Italian companies. There is nothing impossible, it is enough to eliminate the income of citizenship that is worth billions of euros a year and to use the resources released to finance a real and significant reduction in the cost of labour. We also ask not to include in the tax delegation - as I have already mentioned - the revision of the cadastral extimes and no other measure that can be translated into a levy linked to real estate, at such a serious historical moment of economic crisis for the national state. We would like this government finally to start financing active labour policies, overcoming the decree of dignity and taking measures that go in the direction of the "more hired and less paid" principle. We also call for new measures to protect the self-employed, to complement those recently adopted and strongly desired by our parliamentary group. Finally, from the government we demand concrete interventions - as my colleague Mr Malan said before me - to reduce the cost of energy, so that it is not serious about families, given the recent news that announce heavy increases in bills. On these points and on the others contained in our motion for a resolution, which for reasons of time I obviously do not mention, the government and the majority can count on the full support of our parliamentary group. For these reasons, the vote of Brothers of Italy on the motion for a resolution accepted by the Government will be a vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u72	MANCA (PD). Mr President, today we are dealing with one of the most important stages of the budgetary cycle. As we know, NADEF describes the economic and public finance situation and sets out the goals of the Commission's policy action, starting with the budget law. My colleagues Misiani, Collina and Fedeli have already indicated several proposals by the Democratic Party towards the preparation of the budget law, but also important measures to counter the possible uncertainties that may slow down or curb the economic growth framework that NADEF has validated. So I do not take them back, but without a doubt the extension of the energy bonuses to encourage support for the recovery and restart of the construction and construction sector is a fundamental element in supporting the sustainable ecological transition and to put us in the conditions of achieving an ecological conversion of our economy. The reduction of emissions into the atmosphere is an essential component to bring the accounts back also to a positive environmental balance, necessary to support the new growth. But together with these, many interventions have been highlighted: important measures to combat expensive energy, one of the components that in the global dimension can slow growth, along with several proposals for reform, in particular social shock absorbers, so important to align demand and supply. However, the context is positive. The growth gained in the second quarter is 4.7%, the growth expected and validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office in 2021 is 6%. The cash requirements of the public administration, economic performance, tax revenues, employment performance, debt costs all show better trends than expected. There is confidence in Italy; confidence grows and returns in a particular way, in such an energetic way, thanks first of all to vaccinations. The vaccination plan is the most important economic measure to support growth. NADEF, as we have seen, not only does not foresee new deviations, in order to safeguard the expansive nature of the budget (which is confirmed an expansive law, favoring to support the growth), but it does not incorporate any new possible restrictions as a result of possible new pandemic variants. Therefore - I say this very clearly and frankly - the political phase before us is not compatible with ambiguity. The confidence of households and businesses is an essential component in supporting economic recovery. I say this with great frankness, because our freedoms, especially those to which we refer every now and then (forgotten that there exists in the concept of freedom also a community responsibility in the estate and in the general interest of our country), will be realized only with the increase of vaccinations. It is a challenge that concerns Italy, but also Europe vis-à-vis the least developed countries. The macroeconomic framework in this context has one of the wider uncertainties, namely the risk that one third of the total population not vaccinated may introduce elements and variants incompatible with the maintenance of the protection system that vaccines represent. Therefore, evoke individual freedoms without pursuing a Community responsibility is a virus to be eradicated. We also owe it to re-launching our democracy, rather than wasting time poking the consensus with alleged and false support for no-vax actions. This economic framework requires responsibility, seriousness, speed of government action, ability to protect the country, even in the face of eventual pandemic returns. Only in this way will we be able to strengthen the economic and macroeconomic framework so important to remove anger and hope and to produce the certainty of growth that will certainly be inclusive if it is in a position to remove the incrustations and obstacles that slow us down. We need responsibility and not no vax or no tax, as someone wants to bring out. Tax reform is needed to lower the tax burden on labour, households and businesses; reforms are needed. It is not the no season or the no season or the no season for the national responsibility to which we are called to respond. [[Applause]] This is the measure and identity with which the Democratic Party intends to address this debate. We all know - it has remembered the President of the Council and we are in agreement - that the sustainability of the public debt depends on the increase: it will be the economic growth that will determine the sustainability of our debt and the ability of our Country, as we have seen, to increase the exports, that is, the ability to produce those fundamental and decisive elements in order to create job. The word "trust" is not empty or a marginal component, but is also essential to relaunch domestic consumption. We have seen that consumption has decreased during the pandemic phase and the savings of households and businesses have increased. Today, only through the confidence of families and businesses will we be able to relaunch investment, and even domestic consumption requires an adequate measure to persevere the concept of trust in our country. The concept of trust goes hand in hand with the concept of responsibility in the action of a majority and support to the Government to carry out fundamental reforms aimed at changing the encrustations that slow growth. We have always said that it was very important for the Government to implement the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. NADEF incorporates the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan into public finance balances; it identifies possible inclusive growth in the ecological, digital and transition that can produce social inclusion by reforming the welfare pillar, giving up hypothetical models of development today condemned to prehistory. There will no longer be a possible growth, allowing those who are already running hard to run faster and faster, and then producing the necessary resources to help those who do not succeed. Growth will inevitably be new precisely because it will be inclusive. That is why we need to implement the structural reforms we are facing. There will be no inclusive growth if we do not immediately turn to the reform of social shock absorbers, because there is a huge gap between supply and demand. We will have to move resources from a form of only welfare shock absorber to a form of training and reintegration-oriented shock absorber. [[Applause]] Only through this passage will we put this country in a position to grow. The second fundamental element is that we must remove the gaps, obstacles and incrustations that keep Italy between countries in which the youth and female unemployment rate is certainly outside the levels of the states that drive Europe. Reducing gaps and tackling gender-based policies is essential in this context. It is crucial for this new growth. Italy must return to having parameters of youth and female employment among the most advanced countries, because only in this way will we guarantee structures for this growth. Along with this, I say this very clearly, the most important appointment, also to consolidate the new face of Europe, will inevitably be determined by the reform of the Stability Pact: I say this to the Government, we must tell the Minister this morning, we must prepare for this appointment. It is essential to know Italy's priorities to reform the European Stability Pact, to condemn the European phase of linear cuts to history and to build a phase that supports investment, which puts us in a position, regardless of European rules, to relaunch investment, because growth will be structural only in the revival of public and private investment. The reform of the Stability Pact will be decisive. We have confidence - I say this very clearly - in the action of the Dragon Government. That is why we will vote in favour of this document today. That is why we have confidence in Italy, in Italian businesses and in Italian families and, above all, we want to determine the conditions for generating hope and future in the younger generations. [[Applause.]] 17.16 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u75	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we will vote in favour of the resolution and find ourselves in the programme framework and analysis proposed by NADEF. I would like to make a few comments. First of all, we are faced with a robust growth, which has gone far beyond the DEF forecast and which gives us a positive picture, of course without triumphalism and without underestimating the risks that still exist. This picture, validated by all bodies and observers, probably tells us two things. I'll take a look at the first one. We have also discussed, several times in recent months, the way forward, the choices made in relation to the management of the pandemic. I believe that with intellectual honesty all of us today can recognize that the choices made, first by the Count Government and then by the Dragon Government, in the management of the pandemic have proved to be right, especially on a crucial point: addressing the problem of safety from the health point of view of the country was the first and fundamental action for growth. So, even with the lockdown first and then away with the vaccine and with the green pass we gave a perspective. If today the confidence index of families and businesses is at the highest level in recent years, even compared to the years before the pandemic, this tells us that in the end what we have done in this difficult period of contrast to the pandemic and, at this point I would say, what the institutions, the State, the regions and the local authorities have done has produced results and positive results. Ladies and gentlemen, recognizing it without ideological prejudice is a valuable element for all of us, for the role of the institutions and also for our relationship with the citizens. I think, for example, that some of our discussions on the green pass have been overcome by the reality and willingness of citizens to interpret this choice as a fundamental key - vaccine and green pass - for the freedom so invoked. Having said that, I should like to focus on two points which are necessary and correct in relation to the analysis of these months. We with the PNRR, with low interest rates on debt, with the policies of the ECB, have a unique and rare opportunity: to start the process of change and transformation of our country, but we must not underestimate the risks, first of all the pandemic. You will have read like me, in the material that the parliamentary services have offered us, that in poor countries the vaccination rate is at 6%. Colleagues and colleagues, none of us can think in a realistic way that we manage the pandemic globally and in our countries without resolving this node. This problem is solved in one way only: by addressing it and building a new relationship of European policies with the United States, in relation to big pharma, the production of vaccines and the ability to equip these countries quickly with vaccines. Attention: no one can be surprised, if this trend does not reverse in poor countries, that a new variant can arrive tomorrow. The vaccine is decisive to block variants and if we do not address this issue, not in a pauperistic key, but in a real and strategic key to the governance of the issue, we will not go anywhere. Another central point is the issue of the Stability Pact and Europe. The debate on the new Stability Pact and the new rules begins precisely in these weeks - as Commissioner Gentiloni has announced. I believe that Italy, as it had the ability to do the previous government in relation to the resources of the PNRR, must play a decisive role. I believe that we have the cards in place and we also have a personality, the President of the Draghi Council, who can really put us in a position to reason not only on the rules, not only on the Stability Pact as such, but on the possibility, starting from the PNRR and the new choice made in Europe, of making it structural and building a new path. For example, if the enormous challenge of ecological transition represents the future of the next generations and the future of Europe, then these investments must not be part of the constraints of the future Stability Pact. This would produce profound innovation and a challenge for each country. The other element is what concerns us. I remain convinced that, if the PNRR is a great opportunity, we still have to make an effort to clarify, first of all, what our strategy and industrial policy are. From this point of view I confess that there are still limits that I consider significant. Today - for example - we are rightly debating how to manage the increase in the cost of methane and energy. But the strategic path is that, also for the autonomy of our country in relation to the great strategic issue, to make quickly the investments, in key of ecological transition, in the field of compatible energies. From this point of view, I think we need to record the data. Then there are the great themes of work and training. From this point of view we do not need to go back to the choices we have made. I am convinced that the income of citizenship has been essential in order to withstand a crisis like the current one, but at the same time we need to shorten and correct the relationship with active policies and reintegration and the key word in this case is certainly training. Finally, in conclusion, there is the great issue - not clear - of current expenditure. I wouldn't want us to go back to the period before the pandemic. Colleagues and colleagues, if we invest, as we have decided, in the construction - for example - of the network of kindergartens, we must know that then we must find the resources in the current expenditure to manage the kindergartens. If we say that health is strategic, as we all do today (heroes and so on) - colleagues, representatives of the government - can we still go on with the silly rule that provides for a reduction of 1.4% in expenditure on health personnel in 2004? Stop, stop! With the budget law we must solve this problem, and not with future referrals, because in health the problem of staff is dramatic. Therefore, investing in current expenditure is a strategic point. Let's get out of accountant logic and build a strategy. On the basis of these arguments, I am voting in favour of the Group's motion for a resolution No 2. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u78	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Undersecretary, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, I sincerely express a certain emotion today in intervening in this House, but I think there is also a hint of national pride in talking about the Update Note to the DEF. As we are all highlighting here, it is based on important and positive growth figures which go beyond the forecasts of a few months. For this reason, I finally feel inside me the hint of national pride that Italy sees today as imposing itself also at European level. At last today we can communicate to the citizens and to our country the feeling that the recovery is there, in the numbers and in the facts. What allowed this, therefore the right ingredients or - as our President of the Council Draghi says - the yeast that today finally allows Italy to see the recovery was the vaccination campaign. Thanks to the vaccination campaign we finally have a country that looks to the near future and now finally starts again in many areas such as work, school, tourism, culture and even the leisure time of Italians. And we at Forza Italia - we must claim it and emphasize it - on this we kept the bar straight. We considered the vaccination campaign important from the first moment, the only solution to get us out of the quicksand of the virus. [[Applause]] Health protection and protection of work must go hand in hand, but this is only possible if we raise the health security of our country to the highest level. Therefore, today we consistently claim that we have chosen this line without any rethinking, and economic data give us absolutely right. Two days ago the Governor of the Bank of Italy, and therefore certainly not a political party, certified the growth of this year's gross domestic product to a fateful 6%, but he also said that this result is realized and materializes paying attention to the coming months of the vaccination campaign. Therefore, it is also certified here that today the recovery of the country and the growth of GDP are due to the effectiveness of the vaccination campaign, to which this Government and above all our political line have impressed a step change from the past. [[Applause]] This is important. It is a premise that I wanted to make and highlight. Let us now consider some figures, as other colleagues have also done: GDP growth is rising from 4.5 to 6%; the deficit-GDP ratio is estimated at 9.4 percent, but it is reduced precisely by GDP growth and, from 2025, it will also return below 3%. The debt-to-GDP ratio in 2021 will be 153 percent; as has been pointed out by other colleagues, we previously had the risk of reaching 160 percent, but we stopped this growth and it is a positive point, a sign of the change of pace that we have impressed with this Government. In the hearings we have held these days, the Court of Auditors also stated that improvements are widespread and substantial. Families and businesses are growing in confidence and demand. Production activities in the private sector are again expanding. It is clear that there is a strong growth in the construction sector and it also improves private consumption estimates to 5.2 percent. I believe that "trust" is the fundamental word: Italians today return to consume and invest because they are regaining confidence in their country. This is today - in my opinion - the extra gear. That is why we must continue to pass on confidence to the Italians. Now, however, there is yet another leap forward: we must try to make economic growth structural. [[Applause]] and in NADEF this is written and certified. It is necessary to make structural a growth which, in 2024 should be at 1.9 per cent, which is a good level for an economy like ours, of a traditional type. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan will help us with our investments; we have all talked about it and it is important for the next few years to be able to spend all our resources. Public investment grows from 2.3% of GDP in 2019 to 3.4% of GDP in 2024. Unemployment remains a little high in recent years, and that is why we have been saying for a long time that we should review active labour policies. [[Applause]] It is necessary to revise the income of citizenship at this time, in that part of the flop, that is the placement at work, where we have absolutely not achieved results. It is important - I tell the representative of the government - to put hand to this measure in that part that has proven to flop. Moreover, we are very careful about the tax burden and there is an improvement: from 41.9% to 41.5%. It is therefore an important and courageous note, which brings out the will of the Government and understands what is the path that has been taken with regard to growth. Coming to a few points on the forthcoming financial maneuver, something has already emerged in recent weeks. The single child allowance is confirmed; incentives for innovation and business are confirmed. The measure of the 110% superbonus, the object of our battle, is extended, and so we have been careful about this too. However, we ask the Government even more, because we want the permanent stabilisation of all measures in favour of construction, because they are the engine of our country's growth. [[Applause]] Then there are the connected to the financial maneuver, 21 bills and, among them, we all know that the battle of battles is about tax delegation. Yesterday there were speeches on this subject and the Government has clarified several aspects in these hours, but many other aspects we still need to deepen carefully. On this - I want to make this clear to the Government - we will keep the very high guard. The Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia in its entirety will be a dam against the increase of taxes on the house. [[Applause]] We don't discount anyone on this, so we won't do it to our government either. No increase on the house, because right now it is not possible to do so. We remind everyone that it is precisely thanks to President Berlusconi, with the Government of a few years ago, that we abolished the IMU in our country. [[Applause]] The house is the primary security of Italians and is the result of a life of sacrifices. It is the concept that Italians have of it and that is why at the present particular moment, in the pandemic and economic crisis in which we are still in, we cannot afford to increase taxes at all. Instead, we need to identify all those tools that are needed to free up resources to invest in the country's growth. This is important. Until a few months ago we had absolute uncertainty about the future, while today the Italians regain confidence; the economic recovery can be seen and seen well, and we must make it structural. Today we must frame this important moment and above all continue to give confidence to the Italians; but trust that we must not lose, but feed with the concrete facts and, therefore, in the financial maneuver we will insert concrete measures such as the one that concerns the superbonus and many other measures for the development of the country. What we have at the moment, also with regard to the reforms for the modernization of the country, is a historic opportunity that we cannot miss, and that is why Parliament, our ruling class, the Government must now be ready. We at Forza Italia are there and do it for the future of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u81	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary Guerra, I immediately announce that the Lega Group will vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the majority group leaders, because it is fully recognised in the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, which shows that the work of the Government, the majority forces and the League within the Government coalition leads to certainly improving results for the economy of our country and creates opportunities also for the future. It is clear that in April we expected GDP growth of 4.5% in the Economic and Financial Document, while today we are recording a final forecast of 2021 at 6%. This is the proof that the government's economic policies work and that the fight against the pandemic is successful, it is effective, because it was the first requirement to restart the economy, which for us means definitely stop to the closures of economic and commercial activities of all those who are tucking up their sleeves to start again to produce, to work, to create wealth for the country. I believe that the main result of this 6% is not closely linked to the policies of the government, but to the merit of all those workers, of all those owners of activities that have suffered the closures in the past year and that today they want - and are demonstrating it with the facts, with their daily commitment - to raise the fate of the country. For us it also means stop - we hope it will be final - to the decrees-laws supports and restaurants, which were obviously necessary, but which represented a considerable expense for the state's coffers. So, yes to work, yes to restart, no more closure, no more spending on debt. Another important fact that revives our economy is undoubtedly that of the interest rates on public debt which, although grown in the past year and half of 180 billion, shows at least a low interest rate, which thus allows us to contain the expenditure of the total debt, which remains - alas - although on the shoulders of all Italians. We also see positively - there is no doubt that there is - a growth in the confidence of companies and households: investment increases, consumption increases. They are all positive data derived precisely from the current situation, from what the government is doing and the majority that supports it, in which we feel protagonists. There is the great opportunity of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which obviously started with the projects, but which is not a certainty for the future. We know that Italy is always slow in carrying out projects and implementing them, because of the bureaucracy and too complex laws in our country. So the challenge isn't won, it's ahead of us. These investments are necessary, they are a great opportunity, but we must work to become public works, effective work for our businesses and opportunities for our country. There are other positive aspects that we find in the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document: I am referring to some related. I am surprised that even today, in 2021, there are those who shout at the scandal regarding the presence of a colleague who refers to the implementation of differentiated autonomy, and not only because this theme has been part of other Documents of economy and finance of past governments, but above all because there is still a misunderstanding about what is differentiated autonomy. We have heard the clichés of all time; the struggle of the selfishness of the rich against the poor: this is nonsense. Differentiated autonomy can belong to the regions of the North as well as to the regions of the South. [[Applause]] It is an opportunity that you can seize or to which you can also not adhere. It turns out to me that there are regions in the North and the South that want to take this path. Another characteristic of differentiated autonomy is that there is no subtraction of resources from Region to Region. Differentiated autonomy is not a struggle between North and South, but it is a demand on the part of the territories - potentially all - to manage certain powers and resources that the State already uses centrally to provide those services, transferring them to the Regions. There is no subtraction of resources towards one territory towards others, but it is simply the direct management of those resources that today manages the State centrally with the transfer to the Regions, with the relative competences. This means freedom and above all responsibility in the management of resources. It's a challenge we believe in. Some territories have embarked on this path and it is right to respect the popular vote that has been expressed in some of them by an overwhelming majority, because it is a milestone of democracy that must be respected. I am referring in particular to those who wanted to strengthen this project by consulting the electorate who, from right to left, have joined it. These are the positive aspects, as well as the delegation - for example - for a framework law on disability, to testify here too to the commitment of the League within the Government and to our Minister Erika Stefani, our colleague to the Senate, who gave a new impetus to the Ministry. There are also some points which need to be clarified and improved from our point of view. I am referring, for example, to the income of citizenship. Let's start with the assumption that you don't want to delete it. All right, but it must obviously be corrected because, as it is structured, it has highlighted problems. [[Applause]] The problems must be solved. We must not be ideologically blind in the face of the problems it has created, nor in the face of the fact that in some territories - as I believe a little 'all Italy - there has been, especially at the time of the need for recovery, in summer, lack of labour especially in the tourism sector. Citizenship income must, therefore, be a means of creating employment, as it was originally intended by the yellow-green government. This was the first objective and will have to be used in a residual way only for those who actually did not have the opportunity to enter the world of work. It must return to this or it must become so because, as it is, it does not perform this function. With regard to the issue of building bonuses, it is clear that they cannot last forever, but at the same time they must have adequate extensions to complete the purpose for which they were launched, as stated by the National Association of Construction Manufacturers (ANCE) and by trade associations. The times are tight because in Italy the procedures are long and farraginous. These bonuses must therefore represent an opportunity for at least a few years to develop all the potential that can arise. Then there is the theme of the debitory folders. Thanks to the League and its presence in the Government, there has been a continuous postponement. But you know that our position is quite different: we believe in fiscal peace, in the fact that a large part of artisans and entrepreneurs have not been able to honour their commitments, not because they did not want to, but because they have not been put in a position to do so. I would therefore like to focus on the issue of the shortage of raw materials. Minister Franco, who made a very clear and clean report on all the issues, spoke on the issue of bubble. Instead, we are concerned about the shortage of raw materials, energy prices and the fact that we are witnessing a further global change in which Asia takes hold of raw materials, the energy it serves its own production system, and Europe, Italy and the West in general are also at risk from this point of view of suffering even more competition from such grabbings. We need competitiveness in our production system. We must respond to the new emergency that we did not think would happen that it is causing serious damage. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of tax delegation. Let us now make it clear that we remain the League, even if we are part of the Government and support it. We say no to the tax increase and no to the increase of taxes on the house: that you present Dragons or whoever, ours will always be a categorical no. It is clear that, even if it is implemented in 2026 and not immediately, it will be the responsibility of those who take such a decision today. We will not take this responsibility, because we want to be consistent in what we believe and what we represent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u84	OIL (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this year's NADEF puts in line some elements that should be framed with the utmost intellectual honesty. I intend to enter into the matter immediately, because the difficulties and suffering caused to the country by the pandemic deserve extreme lucidity of analysis. I believe that the fundamental step of NADEF is that in which the Minister of Economic Affairs says: The programme path for the three-year period 2022-2024 will cover the needs for the unchanged policies and the renewal of various measures of economic and social importance, including those relating to the health system, the SME Guarantee Fund, the energy efficiency of buildings and innovative investments. Action will be taken on social shock absorbers and tax relief. [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] Whether you want to admit it or not, talking about fiscal spaces that will allow you to renew measures in the area of health, energy efficiency of buildings, investment and innovation in the SME Guarantee Fund, means that the Government has understood how important the measures approved by the Government Count II, with the support of the 5 Star Movement, in these areas. [[Applause]] A translation should not be necessary, but to avoid misunderstandings I would point out that, firstly, the reference to the renewal of measures in the field of health does nothing but evoke the large increase of resources that, during the Conte Governments, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, have been destined to health care, after the previous decade in which the same Health Service - as they have shown several authoritative researches - has been definanced for about 40 billion euros, especially because of the destructive choices made during the years of the then Renzi Government. [[Applause]] Secondly, the reference to the confirmation of measures in relation to the SME Guarantee Fund merely recalls the strengthening of this Fund by the Count II Government, starting in March 2020. Data of the Ministry of Economic Development at hand, to date the Fund has guaranteed liquidity to the productive system for more than 200 billion euros, offering a network of protection, but also of revival, indispensable in order to find the companies ready to take advantage of the recovery. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. There is the last statement in explanation of vote on an important subject. There's an unbearable buzz. Please, Senator Dell'Olio. OIL (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Moreover, the call for the renewal of measures in the field of energy efficiency of buildings only confirms the disruptive effectiveness of the 110% superbonus for construction, a measure designed and introduced into the economic system by the 5 Star Movimento, to push the virtuous building, urban regeneration and energy saving. Also in this case we are helped by the unequivocal data provided by Aeneas: from the beginning of the year the construction works with the superbonus admitted in deduction have reached 7.5 billion euros, with an increase of 3.600 percent from the beginning. The start-up yards reached 46,000, with an increase of 2,700 percent and, from the data observed by the Observatory on the precariousness of the INPS, it emerges that between June 2020 and June 2021, thanks to the superbonus, the construction sector has recorded an increase of 92,000 jobs, of which 52,000 indefinitely. I stop here, even if I could continue, just to point out that it is appropriate and I would say due to the decision by the Government to extend the superbonus by 110%. Moreover, to recall - as the NADEF always does - the confirmation of measures related to innovative investments clearly evokes two measures strongly marked 5 Star Movement, the first of which is the Transition Plan 4.0, one of the most massive projects of support to the investments of the enterprises in instrumental goods, innovation and training. The second is the creation of the National Innovation Fund, which then gave rise to the Development and Startup Fund, which led to a boom in new companies. As he certified "Il Sole 24 Ore" on September 10th, in the first eight months of 2021 3,000 startups were born in Italy, an increase of 50 percent compared to the same period of 2020. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Please: who is to be discussed, get out of the Chamber, and this also applies to those who are talking with the representative of the Government. OIL (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. If I can afford a joke, it seems that the government of the best has largely taken inspiration from the worst and, perhaps, always the worst have seen much longer than many other better precedents. [[Applause]] In the NADEF under discussion there are other passages that testify how important and valid the legacy of the Government Count II is. In this respect, the document states that the intonation of fiscal policy will remain expansionary until GDP and employment have recovered not only the fall but also the lack of growth compared to the 2019 level. This objective is made possible by significantly better economic forecasts than expected. A 2021 GDP at 6% compared to the previously mentioned 4.5 is, yes, the result of a rebound due to the heavy fall in GDP 2020, but also of all the protection and recovery measures put in place by the Government Count II since March 2020. With the decrees care Italy, I throw again, August and ristori and the budget law 2021, the Government Count II has put in field 110 billion euros for the benefit of the social and economic fabric, to which are added the 32 billion that the same Government had already approved in order to finance the first decree supports, then approved by the current Government. In practical terms, all this (including the best deficit forecasts compared to GDP, with the transition from 11.8 to 9.4 percent in 2021) frees up for next year an expansive space of manoeuvre from more than one point of GDP, to a total of close to 22 billion euros. These are in fact resources left in inheritance by the Count II Government. Colleagues, the NADEF, read with intellectual honesty, contains unequivocal passages that certify how the Government Count II has been able to find the country prepared for recovery. And this is a fact, with good peace of mind of those who, in the last difficult nineteen months, have found nothing better to do than to ask, in the span of a handful of days, openings and then closures of commercial exercises; to pass from yes green pass to no green pass and to drop a government because it did not ask for the activation of the ESM, then to set aside forever the same ESM demonstrating, if by chance there had still been need, that that argument did not correspond to a true conviction, but was only a branded instrument for bieche political speculation. [[Applause]] Our MES is you, President Draghi: this said a representative of Italy Viva-P.S.I., not even realizing the irritating expression towards the current President of the Council. The Movimento 5 Stars began a path of change. We have certainly made mistakes, but we have never stopped believing in the possibility of giving a vision to the country, for Italy and for Europe. By supporting the Conte Government, we have all managed together to obtain from the European Union the Next Generation EU, for the first time funded by a massive European common debt issuance plan that is worth EUR 204 billion to us from now on in 2026. We should never forget this, given that the European Union itself, again in April 2020, proposed the combination of the ESM, EIB and Sure Plan as a solution. We all know today that this arrangement would have been completely inadequate. From there the ability of the Government Count II to convince the frugal and more recuperating partners and the subsequent take-off of the Next generation EU. The Movimento 5 Stars wants to continue to provide innovative solutions, such as those confirmed in NADEF. In conclusion, I would like to recall another proposal that we have long put on the table. Given the enormous success of the 110% super bonus, which is based on the principle of the transferability of the related tax credits, we have long been proposing the extension of this principle to tax credits for the investments of companies in Transition 4.0, a plan also appreciated by NADEF and the current Government. The same Government has indicated the superbonus 110% and Transition 4.0 among the core investment plans within the PNRR. If we believe, as the NADEF does, that the superbonus is giving an incredible boost to the economy (to the point of meriting a sacrosanct extension) and that the Transition 4.0 Investment Plan for business is fundamental (to the point of meriting a precise reference within the same document); if we believe - as the current Government has done - that the two measures are so important as to deserve a reference in the PNRR, then we must proceed immediately to the extension in budgetary law of the mechanism of transferability of tax credits Transition 4.0. It would be a measure capable of generating substantial liquidity for the benefit of companies, a kind of superbonus companies evoked by all major business associations. It must not be an interpretative doubt of Eurostat or Istat to block an investment proposal that could put Italy on that path of lasting growth that the current Government has set itself as a goal in NADEF. Also on the subject of proposals - to conclude - at the hearing today Minister Franco pleasantly surprised us, confirming that cashback has produced positive effects and has proved to be an important measure to move towards electronic payments. Remember that months ago also the Ambrosetti Forum had used flattering words, publishing a report according to which cashback would generate more than 9 and a half billion euros of benefits until 2025, in terms of reducing VAT evasion, greater revenues and the emergence of the blackout. Yet, Franco himself endorsed the suspension of the measure in June. We therefore believe that the Government, and in particular the MEF, must clarify the ideas in a timely manner and recover with the appropriate corrections the cashback, an extremely innovative economic measure inherited from Count II, capable of releasing a high potential also with regard to the digitisation of relations with the public administration. It is with these last two wishes and with the awareness that what NADEF presents today is the result of a commitment of previous governments, that at this point we can only thank for the commitment made, that I declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u85	An amendment has been tabled on motion for a resolution No 2, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u86	Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that the amendment, which was signed by fourteen colleagues other than me, aims to expunge and remove differentiated autonomy from NADEF. Now, there are four or five of us here today who have signed this amendment and the League. This observation should be self-explanatory. All the others have spoken of numerelles; all the others have spoken of other very important aspects, but no one has mentioned the fact that the differentiated autonomy, which many in here have rightly opposed - there are no conditions - is surreptitiously inserted within the measure under consideration. As a result of the link with the budget maneuver, it will be very difficult for Parliament and for each of the Members to amend this bill. Not only that: some women might also think that, being linked to a budgetary manoeuvre, it is a matter that is also taken away from the referendum. This is the direct democracy of the 5 Stars. In this way you honor what you have always praised until now. Congratulations! Bravo! [[Applause]] The autonomy differentiated, defend the South, "no one remains behind": it has been said by the League in the various interventions that however there is no need, because everyone competes with equal weapons, starting at 95 meters out of 100. That's the difference. Then I make one final appeal. I don't believe you anymore. If you really have declared it - your face will have to account to yourself and to the country, sooner or later - vote for this amendment. [[Comments]] I turn to whomever I want, I turn to the House. Vote for this amendment, so that we have a debate on this matter in the country. You can't lock it in a drawer and have it secretly approved. This is what you're doing: you're secretly approving it. That's what you're doing. And then cuique suum tribuere, to each one his own: the judgment of the people will come and you will have to answer for this. You'll have to answer for such filth. "Nobody stays behind," you said. Here, you want to compete with weapons learn with everyone. Well: vote on the amendment, remove today this bill from the link with the budget maneuver, so that a specific ad hoc rule is then made, a bill that sets for example the essential levels of performance: do you remember the LEPs? He was talking about it. Did you forget them? Now you need a trade with the League. They're the only ones who talked about it. You needed this trade with the League. We would be ashamed of the great incoherence. I hope, however, that the amendment will be accepted and that the draft law relating to autonomy will consequently be removed from the draft law linked to the budgetary maneuver. President. - I call on all my colleagues who have always said that they are opposed to demonstrating their consistency now, and not tomorrow, by voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u87	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u88	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u89	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u90	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator De Falco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Dell'Olio, Rivolta, Damiani, Manca, Errani, Conzatti and Steger. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 1 is therefore precluded. Before moving on to the desired speeches at the end of the session, I would like to ask the Senate a warm applause for the Nobel Prize for Physics awarded to Professor Parisi. [[Applause]] It is the only subject that can unify Parliament at 360 degrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u93	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor to recall the human and political figure of Eugenio Duca, who suddenly disappeared yesterday morning. Eugenio Duca was a Member of Parliament, a Member of the Republic from 1994 to 2006, in a crucial decade for our Republic. He was elected with the progressives and then with L'Ulivo, of which he was one of the founders. Eugenio has been above all, throughout his life, a militant passionate about the workers' movement. He began his battles for work as a worker in the railways and then as a trade union leader in the transport sector. He began his battles for the harbours of Ancona and the port of Ancona from a very young age. He was the voice of the popular and working soul of his city. His connection with Ancona has always been indissoluble. He was a resident of Torrette, an ancient fishing village, upset by the vicissitudes of the twentieth century, emblem of contradictions and transformations; a zip area between the city, the Via Flaminia and the refinery of Falconara, a neighborhood hit by the landslide of 1982 and full of contradictions and needs that Eugenio Duca could represent, because he could represent the social groups that risked paying for a predatory model and wrong urban growth. I want to remind you here of your battles against building speculation. All this made him loved in the city and brought him to Parliament. He was always a tenacious and restless militant of the Left; he was always very respected in the world of the transports and the portualità for its competence. Mr President, in these hours many people are paying tribute to him and I think it is right that this House should pay tribute to Eugenio Duca's commitment, political passion and human qualities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u96	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, my speech would like to draw attention to the aggressions suffered by the candidates and the spokesmen of the Movimento 5 Stars. That is not the policy that the citizens want and that we all want. Politics must be a confrontation on issues, which can also be heated, but cannot be marked by acts of violence, both physical and verbal, regardless of who and to what political force it belongs to. [[Applause]] The attacks on candidates and spokesperson for the 5 Star Movement are a dangerous sign of a worrying decay of the political race and the spy of a heavy climate, almost of hatred and intolerance, which often pervades electoral consultations. What happened to Nardò, Afragola, Piedimonte Matese, Monteparano, Battipaglia - and the list is long - is very serious and dangerous. Every political force should condemn it in a clear way. [[Applause]] and unequivocal, without if and without but. Full solidarity goes to the victims of these episodes - I repeat - serious and heinous. True democracy is based on respect for the ideas and rights of others. We are confidently waiting for the Forces of Order to complete the investigation and clarify the facts that have occurred. In particular, to the Member of the Movimento 5 Stars of Afragola, Iolanda Di Stasio, whom I know personally, I sent on behalf of myself and of the entire Movimento 5 Stars of the Senate a message of closeness and esteem, expressing the support and the certainty that what happened will be a further stimulus to increase its strong determination and the conviction to continue on the path taken. Long live true politics; I lower violence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u99	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, I am starting from the applause you requested just now. It is with great joy that yesterday morning I received the beautiful news of the Nobel Prize for Physics in Giorgio Parisi for the discovery of the interaction between disorder and fluctuation in physical systems from atomic scale to planetary scale. Giorgio Parisi has discovered hidden patterns in disorderly complex materials. His findings are among the most important contributions to the theory of complex systems. They allow to understand and describe many different and seemingly random materials and phenomena, not only in physics, but also in other very different areas, such as mathematics, computer science, artificial intelligence, mineralogy, biology, neuroscience and climatology. In addition to being a very important personal goal, it is also an extraordinary result for the Italian university, for national research and for the entire country system. I share with you this great happiness for a colleague. [[Applause]] I would also like to share with the Assembly the news about the ninth edition of Planet Earth Week, which takes place from 3 to 10 October: Italy to the discovery of geosciences. Geosciences are in our everyday life and play a strategic role for the sustainable development, at the economic, social and environmental level, of our country; they concern water resources, minerals, energy, river and coastal dynamics, protection against geological and hydrogeological risks, environmental safety and human health. The week of the planet Earth wants to make known to the general public the geosciences, through the extraordinary geological, environmental, naturalistic and cultural heritage of our country, touching also different themes: care and protection of the territory, protection of the environment, ongoing climate change, sustainable development, ecological transition, risks related to natural hazards, cultural tourism sensitive to environmental values. With this objective, from 3 to 10 October 2021, as part of the ninth edition of the Earth Planet Week, many geo-events take place in Italy: excursions, walks in urban centres, open doors in museums, research centres, astronomical observers, educational and experimental workshops, exhibitions and exhibitions; conferences, artistic and musical activities. We plan to approach some future Giorgio Parisi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u102	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the downward pressure on the price of milk at the stable is no longer sustainable. The same are hitting heavily the system of Italian farms, that in this period - as we know - has never been spared, especially in the last two years, to guarantee the supply of food and especially of quality products. The Italian dairy sector is worth 16 billion euros of turnover, with over 100,000 employees in the sector. There is, however, a considerable gap in this chain between the prices at origin and those at consumption. As regards the spot milk market, for example, the quotation is about 41 cents; the one under contract, i.e. the one withdrawn daily by the dairy farmers for the production of fresh milk and cheese, is between 35 and 37 cents per litre. The 2020 budgets for organised large-scale distribution show a strong recovery in margins compared to the previous year. Farmers, who are the weak link in the supply chain, with little bargaining power, see more and more reduced profits; indeed, in many cases, costs exceed revenues. Farms are also under pressure because of the increase in food, fodder, maize and soya prices, and above all because of the increase in electricity, raw materials, logistics and transport. In supply contracts between the large-scale organized distribution, processing industries and farmers must be agreed on fair compensation, which can ensure the financial sustainability of farms, taking them away from the risk of bankruptcy. It is absurd and shameful that three litres of milk are worth as much as a cup of coffee. This is unheard of. [[Applause]] The lack of agreement, then, precisely in these days, on the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which involves the entire milk chain, does not open up to encouraging signs for the future, leaving the sector in the grip of a state of suffering that goes to feed a wider and structural crisis, in which our farmers and producers of milk are sinking. From this House, ours is a strong and immediate cry and appeal, so that the Minister of Agricultural Policy does not wait any longer, immediately summons the supply chain table and finds a suitable solution, so that every component of the supply chain can see the income fairly redistributed and, consequently, the marginality, which for the Italian stables would simply represent the anchor of survival. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u105	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in this speech I would just like to point out what happened last Monday in my Province, on the border with Piedmont, in the area of the Ovadese, when a very serious disturbance caused an important flood, indeed very important, which touched and brought to its knees many municipalities and especially the whole civil protection machine, which did not stop a second. Sometimes these predictions are not so easy to do and the strength of nature has once again shown us what it is capable of doing. Important municipalities such as Savona and less large such as Pontinvrea have been brought to their knees. Today the total cost is around EUR 10 million and is something devastating. The region immediately set in motion, civil protection, our volunteers were extraordinary. Before concluding my speech, Mr President, I would like to mention two situations. The first concerns the mayor of Savona, Ilaria Caprioglio, who even ten days after the end of her mandate immediately made herself available to ensure that all forces in the field were placed in their place to give help. The second concerns the Municipality of Pontinvrea, which today has 4 million damages (think that it is a municipality with less than 1,000 inhabitants), where the mayor, like all the mayors on these occasions, has given himself a great deal to do. Unfortunately, however, there are sometimes accidents and this man has remained under the flood water with the tractor overturned and has risked losing his life. I would therefore like to make a comment, Mr President, not only on these occasions, but in general on the mayors, who are all the time at the forefront, all the times shown great capacity to solve the problems, but are not protected either from the point of view of civil liability, nor are they economically guaranteed, and that is a shame. I believe that Parliament must do something about this, because if after the Covid there was still a need to show how useful mayors are for our country, on these occasions, with what happened in Savona, they prove to be very important. I conclude my speech by saying that important companies have been brought to their knees, especially in the area of the border between Piedmont and Liguria; about 5,000 people died in the flood in the Ovadese in a hunting wildlife company. This is unheard of and I believe that on this the Government will have to pay attention when the Region asks for the state of calamity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u106	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-365.ana.u107	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
