ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document III, No 3. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the annulment of the election of Senator Vincenzo Carbone in the Campania Region. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the working rapporteur, Senator Gasparri, whether he intends to intervene to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u5	, f. f. Mr President, in view of the absence of the rapporteur for the Campania Region, Senator Paroli, engaged abroad in the mission of a Commission to which he belongs, in accordance with established practice, I will replace him, as President of the Junta, to illustrate the story of the Campania Region. The story is very complex and has been studied for a long time by the Junta, which is why I refer, for its complex reconstruction, to the extensive written report, filed by Senator Paroli, limiting myself - however, due - to explain to the Assembly the essential points and the legal terms concerning the election under consideration. On 22 March 2018, Dr. Claudio Lotito, a candidate in the multi-annual college 1 of Campania, who, on 19 November 2018, filed a supplementary statement for added reasons, was received. The applicant claimed that its failure to elect, within the framework of the multi-national college Campania 1, would have been determined by the erroneous allocation of six seats in the college Campania 2, instead of the seven seats provided for by the decree of the President of the Republic 28 December 2017, n. 208, and, relatedly, by the allocation of an additional seat in the college Campania 3. The error would be attributable to the operation of subtracting a seat from the Forza Italia list in the Campania 2 college to assign it to the Brothers of Italy list in the Campania 3 college, having obtained the best rest useful for the allocation. The applicant argued that the assignment of the seat to the Brothers of Italy list should not have taken place by altering the number of seats scheduled for the Campania 2 and Campania 3 colleges. The Junta must assess each electoral case on a case-by-case basis. The one proposed by the candidate Lotito is the only appeal lodged in all the Regions that requires the evaluation of a complex mechanism of allocation of seats, so any decision of the Junta can only concern the single case. This being so, on the basis of the proclamation data, the 18 seats to be assigned to the Region for the proportional part have been attributed in this way: three to the center-left coalition, of which three to the Democratic Party; six to the center-right coalition, of which four to Forza Italia, one to the League and one to the Brothers of Italy; nine to the Movimento 5 Stars. With regard to the allocation of seats in the three multi-annual colleges, in accordance with the rules in force, the first step is to assign seats to those with the so-called full quotient; therefore, the relevant calculations have been made. With regard to multi-member colleges, College 1 still has to be assigned two seats after the evaluation of full quotients, and on this the long and complex discussion in the Junta has spread to identify the criteria for allocating the seat. I save the punctual reading of norms and quotes recalled in the broad report that analyses all the details and events that the Junta has had to face. Therefore, the correct application of the rules, according to the final decision of the Junta, has led to the identification of the number of seats payable to each multi-annual college established by law and the number of seats payable on a regional basis to each list, determined during the allocation phase. It is therefore clear from what has been said that in the case under discussion there was no reason to resort to the so-called transfer institution, from one college proportional to the other, which, on the other hand, mistakenly considered that it had to apply the regional electoral office. The legitimacy of this institute is not in question here: the last part of Article 17 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993 explicitly provides for the hypothesis of surplus seats and deficit lists, referring to several multi-named colleges, with the consequent possibility of a transfer of seats between a multi-named college and the other. However, this eventuality is entirely residual, as stated by the Constitutional Court in a judgment relating to a case referred to the Chamber of Deputies and the report also explicitly mentions parts of this judgment of the Court, which helped the Junta in a judgment that has been long and complex, with opinions that have been acquired by the colleagues concerned, including well-known lawyers, as well as Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, in conclusion, in the light of the above considerations, the only variant to the initial proclamations in Campania, according to the report of Senator Paroli, approved after the litigation procedure that took place in the Junta, concerns the list of Forza Italia. The candidate Lonardo would then be elected, with the candidate Lotito taking over in College 1, and College 2 the candidates De Siano and Lonardo, elected in this college as he achieved a lower percentage electoral figure than in College 1. Candidate Cesaro is elected to College 3. Senator Carbone would therefore be excluded in College 3. These are the proposals that the Junta has made, after all the planned procedure of contestation, public hearing and chamber of council, and the consequent decisions, which, through the report of Senator Paroli, which I had to explain, replacing him for his parliamentary mission, proposes to the Assembly, in the variation that I recalled here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u6	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been raised. He asked Senator Grasso to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u7	Mr President, we are in the debate on the report by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election of Senator Vincenzo Carbone in the Campania Region, adopted by a majority on 6 October 2020. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I see that there is total disinterest. I'm glad no one cares: well! I would like to point out that, with a resolution of 24 September 2020, the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, meeting in the Council Chamber, following the dispute over the election of Senator Carbone, decided by the Junta at its session of 4 August 2020 and its public session, decided to propose to the Senate the annulment of the election of Senator Carbone in the Campania Region. This decision is based on proclamation data that have been corrected compared to the initial ones of 11 March 2018 only in relation to 72 sections selected at random, following obvious discrepancies with the data of the Ministry of Interior, as shown by the minutes of the regional electoral office of 12 March 2018. It was therefore necessary to proceed with the formation, within the Board, of a Audit Committee that carried out the verification of the electoral results of as many as 457 sections (about 3,000 ballots), then interrupting its work, as shown in the minutes of 22 July 2020, signed by the coordinator, Senator Lucio Malan, not considering sufficient the data acquired and considering it necessary to obtain further elements of certainty. The data therefore need to be corrected before applying the calculation mechanisms provided for in the current electoral law. If it is true that the control of the ballots voted in six sections (and only six of those selected) was not possible, since it was erroneously destroyed (we hope that it is an error, blameless or guilty) by sending to the Macero by the offices responsible for the custody, it is also true that the Committee and the Junta must carry out a further study using the relative minutes and tables of ballot as different means of proof to reconstruct the expression of the vote, as the judgment n. 197 of 2007 of the Council of State, which states that the destruction of the ballots does not determine the invalidity of the electoral operations, if the reliability of the ascertainment of the truth is not precluded by the use of test instruments other than the direct examination of the ballots, such as the minutes and the ballot tables (method adopted by the same Regional Electoral Office for the rectification of the primary data of proclamation). It must be borne in mind that the Senate has, first of all, the duty to restore the correct and transparent representation of the popular vote, correcting the data of proclamation, as to ascertain, so that the application of the electoral law is based on real and verified data. Therefore, the Senate cannot abdicate to its powers of verification, especially when it comes to respect for the vote and the principle of popular representation. It is therefore requested that the Assembly decide, pursuant to Article 93, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, to suspend the deliberation, pending that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity acquire the additional elements of certainty that it considers necessary for the application of the current electoral law to be based on verified and real data. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u8	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question QS1, presented by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind my colleagues that, pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure, until the closing of the debate, at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Council by submitting reasoned agendas. In the absence of such proposals, the Assembly will not vote, and the conclusions of the Junta will no doubt be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u9	Mr President, today we are called to debate and vote on a report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which concerns a member of the Assembly, who has lived with a sword of Damocles on his head for four years now, with an inquiry that has seen two rapporteurs alternate, as well as the establishment of a committee for the verification of the minutes and ballots of the Campania Region. Entering into the merits of the appeal, an extravagant theorem is rebuilt, which upsets not only the single text of 1993, which regulates the election of the Senate of the Republic, but above all the constitutional principles governing the democratic nature of our order. I refer in particular to the right to vote, in accordance with Article 48 of the Constitution, and in particular to the profiles of equality of voting. This argument would amount to a total reversal of the vote of some voters, which would be intolerable. In order to identify a distribution of seats to the individual lists in each multi-annual college at its most favourable indication of the elected candidate, the applicant attributes a miscalculation of the regional electoral office concerning the allocation of seats to the non-assigned lists of entire seats, following an unfounded and ingenious criterion which finds no confirmation in Legislative Decree No 533 of 20 December 1993. This rule is very clear in providing for the initial allocation of seats on the basis of the full quotients to the various lists and, subsequently, to the lists which have obtained the major remains, excluding only those to which the number of seats assigned to them has already been allocated as a result of the operations referred to in points (a) and (b). All lists which have received full quotients should not be excluded from this operation, but have not exhausted their number of seats. In other words, it is not true that seats should first be allocated to lists which have not received full quotients and only after those which have enjoyed them, but to which the seats still have to be allocated. This discipline would be meaningless and would penalise the lists which, by chance, have obtained entire quotients, even though they have the greatest remains; so much so that the same text, with unambiguous content, provides for the hypothesis that, after the distribution of seats carried out according to the method of the quotient of attribution and the highest remains, there are lists with more elected than those already assigned at regional level (exceptional) and lists with less elected (deficitary), establishing that in that case these seats in the colleges in which they have been assigned with the lowest decimal part and the deficit lists are assigned in the colleges where the lists have obtained the highest decimal parts. It follows from this that it is the same text that admits that the number of seats allocated in each multi-annual college may vary from the quota identified ex ante by the decree of the President of the Republic of 28 December 2017. Apart from the clarity of the provision, this partial flexibility of quotas is neither random nor logical. If the number of seats were completely inelastic, the deficit lists could be paid in the situation of obtaining seats in colleges where they achieved the worst results and instead being with candidates on the list not elected in other colleagues where the best results were recorded. During the work of the Council, serious inconsistencies were also established in terms of the allocation of votes between the lists within the coalitions, but also of the discrepancy in the valid votes between section minutes and annexed ballot table. It was found that the valid ballots of six electoral sections of the 12 that had been requested were no longer recoverable, as they were destroyed. I wonder how this House can vote in favour of the annulment of the election of one of its members in the absence of certain data, because the destruction of some ballots makes the subsequent findings of the committee and subsequent corrections totally ineffective. It would indeed be a vulnus that has never been seen before, with terrible consequences for the forthcoming verification of the powers that this House will have to examine. Dear colleagues, this was a brief summary which I tried to reconstruct, but I ask this House to reject in every way the dispute over the election of Mr Vincenzo Carbone and to be truly aware of what we are doing this morning, hoping that Mr Vincenzo Carbone will remain the senator of this Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u10	Mr President, I have already specified, in the motion for a suspension, the elements which have come to the attention of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. In fact, we are sure that the proclamation figures do not correspond absolutely to the will of the voters of Campania, as they have been corrected on the basis of some disagreements that the Regional Council has found with respect to the data of the Ministry. Understanding that there were errors, it intervened, but at random, to adjust the data, choosing only 72 sections, while the activity of the Committee coordinated by Senator Lucio Malan acted by examining as many as 457 sections, reviewing about 3,000 cards. Unfortunately, we have come across - I too have been a member of that Committee - a very unpredictable fact. At the time when the cards were requested from those who were to keep them and keep them, we were told that they had been sent to the macero, erroneously, along with those of previous years and related to other votes. This, of course, has interrupted the work, but that means that there are still investigations to be carried out. In fact, the Council of State, in its judgment n° 197 of 2007, ruled that the destruction of ballots cannot determine the invalidity of electoral operations alone, thus affecting the results of the vote, because it can also be achieved through other means of proof, which are precisely the minutes and the ballot tables, as the regional electoral office did, as a method, with respect to those 72 ballots. Therefore, these methods of data verification are certainly to be used to establish the election on certain, real and verified data. The changes in the proclamation data have led to a different result in the allocation of seats, as was evident precisely from the work of the Audit Committee, which certainly did not consider the acquired data sufficient, but had reached absolutely different conclusions. These conclusions did not make necessary all the diatribe, supported by constitutionalists, on the translation of the vote, because the results led to the assignment in the college 2 of Campania, where the number of seats actually allocated was corresponding to that fixed in the distribution of seats in relation to the population data, precisely in the Campania Region. The Senate therefore has a duty to restore the correct and transparent representation of the popular vote, correcting the proclamation data that are absolutely not corresponding to the vote, taken at random between 72 sections, compared to all the work carried out by the Committee, which precisely was not completed for those reasons (because, by chance, the electoral ballots of some sections were sent to the Macero). This has interrupted the work, but by means of minutes and ballot papers, the results of the vote on the people's representation for the election of their representative in Parliament can be fully reconstructed. I therefore believe that there is a need for further certainty. To proceed in the absence of the correction of these data would constitute a serious violation of the competence of the Junta of the elections and of the parliamentary immunity, which is called upon to verify the data that knows and we already know are data that do not correspond to the reality. All that has been said and considered, I think that the question can be referred back to the Junta to correct the electoral data of proclamation using those instruments that the Council of State has indicated, namely the examination of the minutes and the ballot tables relating to the Campania Region, and therefore instructs all the consequent fulfillments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u11	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to express my views on this matter by trying, as President Grasso has done now, to clarify a little. I am a member of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, and this issue has been dealt with a long time. In conclusion, a first report was drawn up by Mr Malan, who was then rejected by the Junta. As a result, the report illustrated earlier by the president of the Junta, Senator Gasparri, which is based on very sophisticated lucubrations that have to do with the shift, the dragging, the whole quotient and the decimal quotient. In fact, as Mr Grasso has just said, we must take into account an important fact: we have an act of provisional proclamation which, according to the proposal, should be cancelled on the basis of absolutely uncertain, fluid, slippery and certainly not satisfactory elements of knowledge. In fact, a huge number of ballots are missing, because they have been wrongly sent to the macero, as it is said. These ballots therefore cannot be verified. In the absence of the possibility to verify, we cannot cancel a proclamation and therefore create a very dangerous precedent in order, in the absence of certain or at least probable data or at least of great possibility. As President Grasso said earlier, I also believe that it is necessary that we do not already use subsequent sophistications, but that we check the data and the facts before we can or have to assess other subsequent requirements. If we do not have any certainty and likelihood of data, we must find them aliens. As the Council of State points out, we must go to recover what is recoverable, namely the ballot tables and the minutes of the various sections. Without these elements we cannot give rise to the discussion on shift, whole quotient, decimal quotient. In this case, which is opposed by the applicant Lotito and Senator Carbone, it makes no sense today to talk about the legislation that has to do with the attribution of the decimal quotient, different from what will then be said in the following on the other question, the Apulian one. In this context, we must take account of the facts. I therefore believe that President Grasso is right and I also voted in favour of the suspension. The Junta must resume the matter and instruct it on the basis of tables and ballot papers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u13	The debate on this document is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I inform you that the agendas for the G1 agenda have come to the Presidency, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and G2, presented by Senator Renzi and other Senators, who are in distribution and are intended to be illustrated. I would remind you that the agenda will be voted by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u16	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for very few minutes of silence because I would also like to explain my reasons. I believe that it is clear to everyone, above all else, that this is a personal matter which recalls my person, my dignity, my being a man and my being a senator in this House. First of all, I should like to thank my colleagues, the distinguished President, the Senators and the Senators, who, in general discussion, have scrupulously illustrated the reasons for the applicant's numerous and rather singular arguments. I used the term "singles" to use euphemism, because questioning the establishment of the single text of laws with rules for the election of the Senate of the Republic can be a dangerous precedent for our democracy. I will tell you more: these are precisely the work of the Junta. It is enough to read the minutes of those sessions to realize that many members of the Junta have repeatedly disassembled the theory of the non-translation of seats in plurinomial colleges. The shift of the seat is not an effect prohibited by the law, but it responds to an elementary need for democracy and the fundamental principles of our constitutional system, touched on several times, in its own jurisprudence, by the Constitutional Court. Also in the minutes - I am talking about the minutes of the Junta - the members repeatedly ask to adopt a uniform criterion to the other appeals and also this request is punctually disregarded. I would like to know why on the part of the members of the Junta the criterion adopted by the court of appeal of Naples is considered legitimate for the other districts and for the other Regions and for Campania itself not: it seems really singular. On 22 July 2020 the rapporteur, Senator Malan, while stating that he was forced to express himself on the basis of elements not considered sufficient by him, proposed to proceed, however, after having noted that there are no changes in the powers of the eleven single seats due to the Campania Region. As far as the proportional share of the proclamation data is concerned, my seat gets it even the Free and Equal list and loses it the coalition of center-right, with reference to Forza Italia. So, if my seat belongs to anyone, it belongs to the list of LEU, to which it should be assigned (Senator Malan writes). But even more serious - forgive me - is the forcing that takes place at the end of the work of the Committee restricted for the revision of sectional minutes and ballots in the Campania Region. Please follow me. The rapporteur, Mr Malan, always says (they are written in the documents of the Junta): In view of the considerable anomalies found in many electoral sections, this margin is not sufficient to define with certainty the allocation of the seat in question. What are the words of Senator Malan, the Committee coordinator, referring to? Listen carefully. Forgive me. The anomalies found in that verification refer to the discovery that the valid ballots of six electoral sections in twelve sections have been dispersed, have been destroyed, with high probability that the same fate has touched a much higher number of ballots in other sections of the Region. So you didn't find the cards of six sections: disappeared, disappeared, certainly not because of me. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Can you give me a few more minutes, Mr. President? In that same place, Senator Malan himself communicated that the President of the Junta, Senator Gasparri, had already considered it necessary to report to the President of the Senate what emerged, in order to invest the judicial authority for any possible follow-up of competence. So Senator Gasparri asks President Casellati to invest the judicial authority in what happened, because there were no ballots. Nothing has been known of those cards that have been destroyed, but this has incredibly allowed the abnormal decision to be forced to consider the appeal lodged by the applicant to be worthy of acceptance and to contest my election. The destruction of the ballots - said Senator Malan - prevented a correct use of projections, tests of resistance or simulations, which are not able to correct a series of anomalies and abnormal inconsistencies identified in the minutes and ballot tables, nor even to determine a different allocation of seats, not having many useful ballots available.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u17	Senator Carbone, I understand the importance of this issue, but I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u18	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, this is a personal matter and it is just another minute. In the light of the obvious pathologies, inconsistencies and anomalies that have emerged, we cannot achieve a certain, reliable and incontrovertible outcome in order to ensure one of the principles that governs the contradictory and that governs the processes in the performance of this judicial function that is proper of the Junta: the burden of proof rests on those who contest a right. I wonder how the Senate, the temple of rules, may fail to consider the principle of reasonableness and appropriateness between the premises and the conclusions of a partial investigation and an incomplete investigation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you must know that this inquiry into my election was indeed an ordeal for me. You have also warned him from what I have read; I feel very tried. When I applied, in 2018, I did it with so much enthusiasm and with so much joy. Believe me, I am not a miraculous man, and I am not even a pardoned man. I have given the best years of my life to serve people and to serve politics. I was City Councillor, Councillor, Mayor of my reality for almost ten years; then I was elected to Metropolitan City. In view of the context, allow me to clarify: there has never been a shadow, a stain or a smear on my work, so today I am very uncomfortable to find myself in such a painful situation for me. In these four years I have been pointed out by newspapers and people as an abusive senator. I mean here I've never felt abusive, because I'm not an abusive senator. [[Applause]] You know this well and better than I do, but having to explain it every day to my friends, to the people who voted for me and to my children, Mr President, friends senators, is a painful circumstance, an experience that I do not wish to give to any of you. I was chosen by some people to be a candidate, I was chosen by the people who voted for me and wanted me and I sit in this House because the law - as you know - allows me to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u19	Please conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u20	Coal (IV-PSI). It is truly a pain to know that the court of appeal of Naples has made the right choice for me and it is a pain for me to know that you of this are aware. I am therefore, as always, returning to the judgment of this House. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you, my fellow senators, the Senate Offices and my party. I do not know how this Russian roulette will end - allow me the expression - which is on my head today, but I tell you that it has been important and exciting years for me, during which I believe I have served my country and my people in a fair and clean way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u21	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Colleagues, the Petitum of the agenda G1 concerns the postponement to the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity in order to correct the electoral data of proclamation relative to the Campania Region and to instruct the consequent fulfillments; because of this is precluded the voting of the agenda G2, presented by Senator Renzi and other senators. Since all acts are referred to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, it is clear that Senator Carbone remains in office until the investigations required by the approved agenda have been carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on document III, No 4. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly the annulment of the election of Senator Anna Carmela Minuto in the Puglia Region. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pillon, whether he intends to intervene to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u23	Mr President, with your agreement, I shall return to the report that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u24	I would remind my colleagues that, pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure, until the closing of the debate, at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Council by submitting reasoned agendas. In the absence of such proposals, the Assembly will not vote, and the conclusions of the Junta will no doubt be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest with ourselves: electoral matters are particularly complex. In order to be in charge of the functioning of electoral laws, we need to have two competences, often antithetical: we need to know the law and also mathematics well. [[Brusio.]] Forgive me, Mr President. There is too much noise in this House. I have difficulty in presenting my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u26	Excuse me, a moment of attention. The senator's talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u27	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was saying, it is a complex matter, but mathematics, which also presides over the functioning of the allocation of seats, is at the service of the law. In the end, it is the legislator's choices that decide in what way these Assemblies must be the projection of the Italian people. It is a complex matter, because depending on the choice of electoral law, the projection in these classrooms changes, with important consequences also on the government of the country. As for Senator Minuto, I want to save you the analysis of numbers, also because I believe that many of us rely on friends or consultants to understand the functioning of electoral laws. Many of us are interested in the final result and, among other things, many of us have had the fate of not having to deepen the functioning of electoral laws in the most punctual aspects, because perhaps they are the recipients of an unambiguous result. Senator Minuto, on the other hand, finds herself in the need to face a dispute. In a nutshell, it has happened that the Puglia district - these are the only numbers I will give - has 20 senatorial seats, which belong to the multi-nominal and one-nominal colleges. The division, in particular, is as follows: eight colleges are allocated on a single basis and twelve colleges are allocated on a proportional basis. The twelve seats allocated on a proportional basis are in turn divided into two colleges of six, for a total of twelve. Senator Minuto was a candidate in College Puglia 01 and so far I think it's easy to understand what we're dealing with. [[Brusio.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to be as simple and as boring as possible. Why do we have two colleges, in this case equal numbers in terms of seats? How do you decide the seats to be assigned to a territory? It is easy: compared to the population living on that territory. Be careful, this is a basic criterion for any electoral law, it is a fundamental principle: the territory must express seats in proportion to the population, in order to avoid - I make a simplified example - that a territory where 1,000 inhabitants insist can express the same number of representatives of a territory where 500 inhabitants insist. This would be an aberration and would serve as a basis for the functioning of democracy, because democracy requires representation and representation must be consistent with the people represented. In the complicated reasoning relating to the allocation of remaining seats by virtue of the quotients, there appears to be a contrast between two competitors: Michele Boccardi and Senator Minuto. Mr Boccardi claims to have achieved a higher quotient than Senator Minuto. If this happened within a single college, there would be nothing to discuss, the problem is that Michele Boccardi took part in the electoral competition in the college Puglia 02. At this point, if we assign the last seat of the twelve to Michele Boccardi, we arrive at a result that violates that basic principle of democracy just said because the Puglia 01 college would express five representatives and the Puglia 02 college seven representatives, with a clear imbalance in terms of representativeness: we would have an over-represented territory and an under-represented territory. Colleagues, electoral laws constantly pose problems of interpretation, and it is not true that everything can be supported because, in reality, in the face of uncertain cases, the law intervenes as we know it: the right with the capital. That right often refers to a scale of values, so in the face of an uncertain case you have to look at the first super-ordained principle that presides over the functioning of the elections, and see if that first principle offers a solution. Only if it doesn't offer it, you move on to a second principle and so on. It is true that in some cases we have also exceeded the criterion that the election of the Senate is on a regional basis, but we did so because we had no other principles to appeal to: it was the last beach; the alternative would have been not to assign the seat, with a further serious injury to the protection of the popular will. But that's not the case. Here we are faced with a simple problem: leaving the seat to Senator Minuto means respecting the principle of representativeness of a territory. As you can see, this is a simple matter, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote in favour of the agenda presented at the first signing of Senator Fantetti. We voice the principle of representativeness, we protect democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u29	Mr President, I refer to the positions I have also held in the Junta, so I refer to an interpretation which has been considered valid throughout the national territory, which is why what we are dealing with here would really be an exceptional case, a particular one, when we put our faith on the agenda presented. In fact, the question must be framed in the broader interpretative conflict that can open between two current rules: the decree of the President of the Republic, which sets the number of seats payable to each multi-annual college (in this case the decree of the President of the Republic of 28 December 2017) and the procedure identified by the current electoral law for the election of the Senate. It can now be said that it is unconstitutional, but it must be eclipsed by its unconstitutional nature which must be declared. The system of rebalancing of surplus and deficit lists may, by its nature, cause the lists to be compensated to differ at the level of the multi-annual college between the first allocation and the final effective allocation; therefore, it may occur that, ultimately, the so-called surplus or deficit lists may move (the shift is defined as a transfer) an election from one college to another. On the rigidity of the two rules, on their coexistence and on their possible conflictuality, there is a written literature and an authoritative jurisprudence, which, however, does not resolve the conflict that can be opened, albeit in limited cases. I believe that Parliament should meditate on the habit of intervening on legislative articles, which are also vital for representativeness, with a size and sewn that could distort the sense of a rule, and should, in my opinion, be corrected - hopefully - with all other reasons than the resolution of the conflict. The relationship between territory and electoral seats, and therefore representatives of the people, can in fact be maintained in the regional context and is not foreseen in the framework of the college in which the territory of a Region is divided, because the election of the Senate presupposes regional representation, according to our Constitution. However, the Constitution is not violated when the representativeness of the vote is given value, which involves the transfer from one college to another in the same region. I therefore insist on the position, which has been considered valid by all the other authorities that have decided at national level on this issue, by the electoral offices and endorsements that have been made, also with regard to the other electoral offices, in which this criterion, established by the electoral law, has actually been applied. I would have liked the report to have been integrated with the inclusion of these reasons rather than with reference to events affecting other regions. I therefore insist and finish by voting against the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u30	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u31	Mr President, on this matter, I am sorry that the rapporteur, Mr Pillon, who is proposing the annulment of the election of Mr Minuto, did not want to read his proposal and his report. In fact, it is interesting to note that it carries out, as Mr Grassi has said, a series of rather complex reasonings, which ultimately lead it to say that the discipline is inspired by the principle that the distribution of seats in colleges is proportionate to the population established by the last census and therefore to the criterion, which was stated, of territorial representativeness, with which it is necessary to coordinate that of political representativeness. Indeed, if it complied with the argument put forward by the applicant, the rapporteur, Senator Pillon, said, it would result in a reduction in the number of seats allocated to one college and the corresponding increase in seats in the other, and therefore, as has been said, there would be an over-representation of one college over the other, of 7 to 5 in the present case. This is in contrast to the forecast of the combined provision of article 1, paragraph 2-b, of legislative decree no. 533 of 1993 and the table is approved following the aforementioned legislative decree. This is highlighted by valuable lawyers, such as Giovanni Maria Flick, Federico Tedeschini, Carlo Mezzanotte, with regard to another appeal. On the procedure for allocating seats between the colleges, it is always stated that Pillon is always said that, following the calculation operations provided for in Articles 16, 16- bis and 17 of the Single Text of the Rules for the election of the Senate of the Republic, obtained the electoral quotient and then the allocation quotient, three seats are assigned to the Movimento 5 Stars, one to Forza Italia, in the College of Puglia 1 (identified by the whole of the figures of the quotient of attribution) and three seats to the Movimento 5 Stars, a seat to Force Italy and a Democratic Party seat in the College of Puglia 02, (identified as above). There are, therefore, two seats to be allocated in the Puglia 01 college and one seat to be assigned in the Puglia 02 college. This is to start again. Pillon also says that it is considered correct that, in accordance with Article 17, paragraph 1 (c), one of the two remaining seats held by the Puglia 01 college is assigned to the Democratic Party's list, due to the largest decimal part ever achieved by the Democratic Party. According to the above-mentioned article - the report continues - it seems correct to assign a seat to Forza Italia and one to the League, which, while having the highest quotient in colleges, is entitled to only one seat and must therefore leave its second virtual seat to the deficit list of Forza Italia. This - says Pillon - is the conviction of the rapporteur, which however, taking note of a direction in the opposite direction to such propositions assumed by the Junta in other circumstances (it refers to the case, transferred to Umbria, of a seat of Sicily, therefore with a Marchian violation of Article 57 of the Constitution), changes its judgment and proposes the annulment of the election of Senator Minuto. This relationship has something masochistic and suicidal, but let's read it. How do you approve of something like that? At least with these reasons, this proposal is unacceptable because it complies with a violation of the very clear constitutional precept referred to in Article 57 and conflicts with its logical reasoning. That's crazy. I do not understand how the rapporteur, Senator Pillon, could propose, at the end of such a well-made reasoning, the annulment of the proclamation of Senator Minuto. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is in a way to represent that it is always very delicate to speak on matters relating to the presence of colleagues in the Senate Assembly. It is not by chance that these matters are dealt with by secret vote. I say this because I think it is important to stress the esteem and appreciation that must remain among all of us. Parliament is also the place where we are discussing people who think otherwise, but of whom we are proud and proud to be a part. Of course, we are discussing not the person, but the application of rules that run counter to what has just been said, and we are faced with a coldness of calculations that are often complicated to follow. However, these are rules and calculations based on legal provisions and established case law. The previous speeches have shown that the rule has been sufficiently distorted. I would like to make just two points. In the calculations and in the compensations, which must be done to the occurrence of certain situations, between surplus lists and deficit lists two criteria are met and balanced: the so-called territorial one and that of political representation. When discussing senatorial colleges, it is considered, according to the Constitution and by interpretation, that the territorial criterion is satisfied within the Region. Therefore, it is understood that the territorial criterion does not affect and involve the division between colleges (in the case of Puglia there are three: Puglia 1, Puglia 2 and Puglia 3), as the regional criterion is sufficient. On the other hand, according to the so-called political representation, the legislator, according to the constitutional interpretation of the Council of State, is bound to respect the maximum number of seats allocated to the regional electoral district on the basis of the provisions of Article 57 (4) of the Constitution. But there is more. This calculation has been followed by the allocation of all the seats of the multi-member colleges on which we sit in this House. The Junta itself of parliamentary elections and immunities, in dealing with two absolutely similar cases, rejected the appeals that concerned Tuscany and Piedmont, applying exactly this criterion. There are therefore two insuperable elements: the application and interpretation of the legislation, according to the consolidated constitutional jurisprudence also of the Council of State and the consolidated interpretation of the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities. Therefore, the vote can only be against the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u33	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few words, partly because if I were to make a much longer speech, I could certainly get excited and instead I want to be strong. Mine is the path of a militant who has made politics in his territory. Since I was a child, with my father, I have participated in political demonstrations and meetings. Then, getting older, to be elected to the city council, I searched for votes one by one. I participated loyally... [[Applause]] I participated with loyalty and pride in the life of the institutions of my country. All I can say is that the policy that has been made mostly among men, in a country in the South, in which the land and the sea have been atavistic for a long time, giving man a social primacy that is difficult to scratch, has helped to form my conscience as a woman and as a citizen. In short, I got out of the way and, through this route, I got to the Senate of the Republic. For me it was a goal and a dream that came true. In the Senate I worked with human availability and above all with such humility. I have learned a lot, I have had so much and of this, however the vote will go that will take place in a few minutes, I thank each of you and the institution that everyone understands us. I have never forgotten the path behind my back, I have continued with the forces I had to maintain a relationship with the territories and people for whom and with whom I have always been political. Even in this experience, as in previous years, I have certainly made mistakes; of some I have had immediate awareness of it, of others I have had knowledge of it through intercourse with you, colleagues, even with those on the other side and the other political idea. But I also know how generous I have put into my parliamentary work and I hope, I hope, that this generosity has been perceived, just as I have perceived the generosity of so many in this House because I believe that our common heritage really lies here, gentlemen. Now, in a few minutes, yes, in a few minutes, it will be decided whether I will have to stay in this House until the end of the parliamentary term or I will have to abandon it after almost four years and only one year after the natural deadline. I do not venture into legal interpretations which I have summarized on the agenda and which I believe are on my side, not because I think they should be eluded, but because I deeply believe that this would be hypocrisy. The reasons why some people are asking me to leave are the same reasons that the same people would like to put forward for others to come to this House. It is an unbearable contradiction, which cannot be explained by some smoky institutional theory and which probably leads to a reflection: the verification of powers, at least during the investigation phase, cannot be left hostage to political agreements, whether small or large. There is a need for reform. What matters today is a judgment that concerns the person, his work, the rejection of a logic based on summit agreements. The way things turned out, you all know, in conscience, that those never looked at me, but only penalized. That is why I humbly address each one of you, beyond the membership of the right, left, centre, and even beyond membership of the different Groups; with the same humility that I wanted to be the sign of my work in the Senate I will accept the result of the vote, whatever it may be. In conclusion, reason has always been my salvation and I entrust this umpteenth proof to reason. I thank everyone for listening carefully and ask you to vote in favour of the agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u35	The debate on this document is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u36	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u37	I inform you that the G1 agenda has been received by the Presidency, presented by Senator Fantetti and other senators, who are in distribution and are intended to be presented. I would remind you that the agenda will be voted by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u40	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the bitterness of my colleague, Mr Minuto, for whom I have always appreciated the commitment, passion and competence in the work done in this House. However, even if I am sorry, I must announce on behalf of the Fratelli d'Italia Group the vote against the agenda proposed by Mr Fantetti. We of Brothers of Italy, in fact, are always and in any case for the application of the law: if the law is wrong, we must change it, but as long as a law is in force, the principle of legality must, unfortunately, prevail also over personal feelings. In particular, at a time of difficulty, in which the Government, Parliament and the political class rightly call for the observance of the rules by all Italians (because it is clear that we will only emerge from this crisis if we all respect the rules), it would not make sense for this House itself to assume the right not to respect a clear law of the State. I am sorry about Senator Minuto, but on the other hand there is a senator who has been waiting for three years to sit on a seat in this Parliament. By comparing the two interests, certainly both respectable, the only solution that we can give is the strict respect for legality. Colleagues, the decision of the Council of State to which Mr Fantetti appeals to ask to overturn the decision of the Junta, is a decision that concerns the European Parliament and speaks of districts. It is a fair and legitimate judgment, but not applicable in this case, because in the present case the problem does not concern the seats allocated to the constituency. The district, in this case, is the Veneto Region, but it does not say anywhere that, within the district, they cannot transfer seats from one college to another. After all, we all took part in regional elections. We know very well that this is almost the rule for what happens in the regional elections, where the districts are on a provincial basis, but then, for the game of the remains, there are Provinces that have more seats than those that the law assigns them and there are Provinces that have fewer seats than those that the law assigns them. This is an identical case. Yet, with great sorrow and human understanding for Mrs Minuto, we, as always, can only choose to give preference to the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u41	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since no proposals have been made which differ from the conclusions of the Junta, no vote will be taken, without any doubt meaning that the conclusions of the Junta will be approved, in the sense of declaring the annulment of the election of Senator Anna Carmela Minuto in the Puglia Region. [[Applause]] In order to enable the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to carry out investigations into the identification of the successor candidate, the Junta is hereby authorised to convene. Therefore, I should like to suspend the sitting briefly. (The sitting was suspended at 11.04 a.m. and resumed at 11.24 a.m.) I would inform you that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has announced that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the appointment of the seat following the approval of the report on the contested election of Senator Anna Carmela Minuto, has found in today's sitting that the candidate to whom the seat is assigned is Michele Boccardi. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I proclaim Senator Michele Boccardi. I warn you that from now on it will start with regard to the new proclaimed the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on document III, No 5. The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly the validation of the election of Senator Adriano Cario in the Foreign Circumscription - South America Distribution. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator D'Angelo, whether she intends to intervene to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, in this case too, the Junta has been committed for a long time and constantly. This has resulted in a fairly full-bodied relationship, to which I refer in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u44	I would remind my colleagues that, pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure, until the closing of the debate, at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Council by submitting reasoned agendas. In the absence of such proposals, the Assembly will not vote, and the conclusions of the Junta will no doubt be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u45	Mr President, I take the opportunity of this speech to turn the spotlight, beyond the specific event, on the more general management of the vote of Italians abroad, which for years has signaled strong criticalities, certainly no longer acceptable, for the proper recognition of the free expression of vote of many compatriots who, for various reasons, reside in different nations, but who maintain a strong bond with the homeland. A homeland that unfortunately often, too often, is more stepmother than mother. There are many difficulties for those living abroad. I am thinking of the procedures for the recognition of citizenship as children or grandchildren of Italians, a fundamental element both for formalizing a strong bond with Italy, and very often for a dutyful protection of their rights across borders, protection of which we can all enjoy as Italian citizens. I also think of the consulates, often not attentive to the needs of our fellow countrymen resident in their respective consular districts, but perhaps more attentive to maintaining relations with foreign representations than much more and better treatment they reserve to their fellow countrymen in terms of quality of service and dedicated staff. Colleagues, the many successive governments have approved, for several years now, policies that have seen more and more diminish the presence of the State in some contexts. I am thinking of communication, in which it was decided to cut fundamental resources for the survival of Italian newspapers published abroad. It is true that certain situations had to be reviewed, monitored and controlled, but this cannot justify the linear zeroing of contributions to Italian publishing beyond borders. I am thinking of the ever smaller presence, if not even the abandonment of the State in the actions of maintenance, management and control of Italian schools abroad, structures of fundamental importance for the cultural bond with the homeland and indispensable element for the knowledge and the maintenance of our language by tens of thousands of young Italians. [[Applause]] In addition to all this, there is, above all, a lack of vision, a clear foreign policy line for our fellow countrymen. There is a lack of precise rules and procedures, which cannot be uniform, but must instead be adapted to the needs of every single territorial reality. Synthesizing the concept to the fullest, I mean that procedures and rules that are most likely valid for Europe or North America, for example, cannot be applied with the same ease for other nations or continents in which we live in difficult social conditions and political contexts, often even dangerous, as happens in some countries of South America, where the presence of our compatriots is strongly rooted: I think of Venezuela or Argentina itself, where frauds and unclear situations are on the agenda. I remind all of us, colleagues, in these days and in these hours in more than one hundred consular districts the elections of the Comites are taking place (Comitati per gli italiani all'estero), the bodies of representation of Italian citizens abroad and also in this circumstance we have arrived punctual reports relative to criticality to the limit of the legality: plichi shipped by courier, delivered in a massive way without any certainty of the recipient; important quantities of envelopes delivered to individual subjects and not directly to the recipient; unsealed open envelopes; absolute arbitraryness by some consulates in the management of the collection of signatures for the approval of the lists. I am not talking about interpretations of the current electoral law or procedural issues that can be improved; instead, I am talking about serious facts that all do less than guarantee the certainty that the next election results have not been altered through illegal or strongly censorable conduct. Today we are talking about the Comites, yesterday about political elections, but they are the usual problems that we have always pointed out and that cause the distrust of our compatriots on the value of their vote, a distrust unfortunately testified also by the low turnout and expression of the vote by postal means. This situation has convinced us to present a bill - I want to highlight it in the House, because little we talk about these issues - to change the voting arrangements for Italians abroad. It is a proposal submitted for the establishment of electronic voting for Italians abroad; a regulation of only three articles, which provides for this mode of voting exclusively for the 6 million Italians resident abroad. It is a measure that is not an isolated act, but it is the result of a work and a sensitivity and attention of Brothers of Italy to our communities living across borders, made of questions and also amendments, including - I would like to remind you one for all - what allowed the Venezuelan doctors of Italian origin, who did not want to recognize the professionalism acquired in the years spent abroad, to come and practice their precious profession in Italy during the lockdown imposed by the pandemic. Allow me to thank these volunteers. [[Applause]] In all this, how can we not remember the battle for the granting of the vote of Italians abroad? Twenty years ago today the norm inserted in our Constitution, which was the crowning of the commitment carried out by the great Mirko Tremaglia [[Applause]] Precisely for this commitment we also believe that, after so many years and thanks to the many problems just mentioned, the law that regulates the vote of Italians abroad must be subject to a review, starting with the mode of voting and I am sure that in all this technology can help us and give an adequate representation to our fellow citizens. In conclusion, Mr President, I do not go into today's technical issue, which is very complex, but I repeat that many of our compatriots look at us, ask us for attention and, above all, ask us to make concrete the confidence they place in our nation and in the parliamentary representations and today's vote goes in this direction. For this reason we cannot remain deaf to the requests of our fellow countrymen who live abroad, who urge us to give legitimacy and fairness, to make clarity and to restore legality. I do not know what the Senate will vote at the end of this debate, but we can certainly guarantee that Brothers of Italy will be at their side, always, in every parliamentary passage, including today's one, necessary to achieve the common objective: to guarantee legality and worthy representation of our fellow countrymen abroad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u46	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u47	Mr President, let us talk about the question of the election of Senator Cario abroad, which can be divided into two parts: the question of the alleged lateness of the appeal and the question of merit. On the first part, Mr President, on the question of lateness, we must observe some preliminary aspects. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, pursuant to Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure for the Verification of Credentials, may, without limitation, carry out its own investigations and adopt subsequent deliberations in relation to the election results, the requirements and the positions covered. We are therefore also talking about incompatibility. In addition, at the beginning of the legislature, the Secretary-General of the Senate shall ensure that all electoral documents are collected and examine them briefly, including an indication of the actions brought. Article 7 of the aforementioned Regulation for the verification of powers provides that the Secretary-General shall return to the sender - beware, because this is a formal, notarial, but fundamental - any complaint, statement or act from applicants or voters, which shall be sent after the twentieth day of the proclamation. In such a case, no subsequent investigation as referred to in Article 9 of the Regulation for the verification of powers shall be carried out. In the specific case, however, the documents were not returned to the sender. On the contrary, the Council has carried out an own-initiative inquiry, thus remedying any delay with its own power, which is laid down in Article 2 of the aforementioned regulation. Again, if the term had been a determining element, it is to be wondered why the Junta not only instructed, but even contested the election of Senator Cario. Why would the Junta work unnecessarily for years? The principle of the preservation of legal acts and the principle of affordability require that these activities make sense. So the alleged lateness, however, is cured by the initiative of the Junta and the failure to return the acts to the exponent. Let's get to the point. Law No. 459 of 2001 on voting abroad requires that the vote be expressed by post; therefore, the sections do not correspond to an effective territorial distribution and the division into sections is made following the sending of the ballots to the Central Office for the foreign circuit, which is located in Rome, obviously, at the court of appeal, according to a criterion, therefore, that is not territorial - I repeat - but essentially random. The Giunta appointed its own committee to examine the ballots; at the same time, the Rome Public Prosecutor examined several hundred ballots. What emerged? It was found that out of 125 sections of Section 948, 108 are related to the same ten graphs. Out of 100 cards in section 1.007, 100 cards come from five graphs, two of which are the same as in section 948. The only two sections - according to the objection - would not be representative of the total 99 and so would be, if these sections were not in themselves a random set and therefore a representative statistical sample and if the percentage of cancellation due to the irregularities resulting from the graphical evaluations were not therefore extendable to all the other sections. Let me explain: we have not only 100-200 counterfeit cards, but we have 86, 98, 100% of the cards examined that are counterfeit. This can be seen by examining a section which in itself constitutes a representative statistical sample. Therefore, this percentage of counterfeiting must be extended, logically, statistical and mathematically, to all 99 sections. The third study also confirms the figure of 100 per cent of counterfeit cards on section 991 with trace marks from overlapping cards in the writing of "Cario". The third study confirms 98 percent still in section 974. In Section 1,040, 100 percent of counterfeit cards are found. What are we talking about? The hands are almost always the same. The committee of the Junta says that clearly emerges the fumus of the condition of pathological nature with reference to the identity of the calligraphy. In short, the Junta proposes something that, however, fails itself: even in the committee there is no doubt that the acts were not returned to the sender; the lateness is surpassable and has indeed been surpassed by the power of the Junta; that the average of the counterfeit cards is very high and reaches practically or almost the totality, approaching in fact 100% of the cards examined. Again: the peculiar mode of formation of those sections, disconnected from territorial variability, constitutes a natural representative sample, which can and must therefore be logically extended to all other sections. For these reasons, I believe that the rightly contested election of Senator Cario should be cancelled and therefore the proposal of the Junta should be rejected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u48	Mr President, I have to say that the reasoning put forward by Senator De Falco now would also be exhaustive, there would be no need to add much, but some aspects should - in my opinion - be highlighted better. First of all, I would like to say that we do not intend to make the whole grass a bundle: this is a pathological situation that has occurred in the South American constituency, but we certainly cannot think - as some have suggested - that the elections abroad always take place in a rather crystal clear way. There are, of course, gaps and problems that should be addressed. In this regard, I would also like to remind my colleagues that, in order to avoid any problem of transparency, it was deposited by the Group to which I belong, Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano, a bill aimed at filling those gaps and allowing a certain traceability of the vote, always in anonymity. When the first report was rejected, it was said that Senator Fabio Porta's appeal was late. Well, I must deny: that's not true. Mr Fabio Porta was only able to bring the action when he was placed in a position to know the outcome. As you know - and this is a well-known fact - the results of the foreign constituency always lag behind the elections taking place in Italy and Mr Porta made an early appeal as soon as he became aware of what had happened. It takes material time to verify that there are pathologies in the expression of the vote. It takes material time to verify once the results have been proclaimed that - as is known - they are always late. Therefore, the twenty days are not those which take place here in Italy, but they take place from a later period. Obviously there was also a need to verify those pathologies that have been denounced and that have been ascertained - I believe - in an unequivocal and irrefutable way. It is clear that there is no tendency to blame anyone: there is a criminal proceeding on the part of the unknown, which will also have an end, but in the context of that criminal proceeding investigations have been made that have made clear the fact that there have been frauds - do we want to call them that? - or, by the way, that there were papers signed by a few hands. In this sense, the report proposed to the Assembly today is not acceptable in relation to the sections, because it fails to consider what the Junta had established, namely the way in which the sections are formed. When we talk about Section 1 - an example - we refer to a section that is established in Italy, not abroad. It is in Italy that, when all the cards come from a given circuit, the same are divided into groups, the sections are formed and a numbering is assigned to them. This clearly makes it all the more striking that, everywhere in that Buenos Aires district, the cards have been drawn up by a few hands. In this regard we cannot fail to consider the fact that several calligraphic evaluations have been carried out, not by us. I open a parenthesis: the Junta had constituted a subcommittee where it emerged unequivocally, ictu oculi, that the signatures were clearly the same, broken by the same hand. We had made an account of two-three different hands, and this also emerged from a simple examination of the cards. For its part, the prosecutor has arranged calligraphic evaluations (more than one) that have given an unequivocal result, namely that a group of cards had been written by A, B and C, and we speak not of two, five or 100 cards, but of thousands of cards. The same applies to the second calligraphic study, from which, taking into account other cards from other sections - remembering how the sections of the cards are formed abroad - it turns out that a very large number of cards have been drawn from the hands D and E, and by chance also from the hand To which he wrote those of the first calligraphic evaluation. This means that this system was widespread in the territory; that in that circuit the cards were evidently tampered with. If I may, that is what this House should think about. It is true that the Assembly is sovereign, but it is always subject to the law. That is the point: the law must be respected. In this case, if we had access to the thesis, proposed by the rapporteur, to validate the election of Senator Cario, although with all the understanding that can be given to him, it would mean affirming the principle that we can commit crimes, which have certainly been committed. That election is the result of the commission of a crime and we cannot forget that. Then there is the problem of proof of resistance: it has been made and filed by Mr Porta an expert report that seems absolutely unassailable to me, from any point of view. I say this because we cannot consider the test of resistance if we do not consider how the sections are formed: that is what I said before. The test of resistance has in fact given unequivocally the result that there would be about 12,000 cards that should be cancelled and should not be taken into account, because it is the result of that tampering that we all know. What tampering there was - as Senator De Falco recalled - also results from the fact that, in addition to the card written with the pen, it happened that many cards had engraved the same name; which means that the cards were one on top of the other and, when you signed the first one, it remained under the sign of the pen. This means that someone has signed more than one card and that is enough to affect the election. If we then go to see the evidence of resistance, which is based on mathematical criteria and is a sworn expert, signed by an ordinary statistician, it leaves absolutely no doubt that, indeed, if those ballots were not taken into account - and cannot be taken into account, because the result of the commission of a crime: we cannot forget this fact - Mr Porte would have overwhelmed the elections. As a result, I firmly believe that we should cancel the election of Senator Cario and give way to those who behaved honestly and correctly, because it is not true that there have been pathological percentages in the area of Brazil. That's not true: just see the numbers. True, someone has taken more votes than others, but not at 98 percent or even 100 percent: there is no such thing! Mr Porta did not take such percentages anywhere. So it seems to me that, regardless of everything, in compliance with the law, we should note that the election was spoiled by the commission of a crime - it is not known who committed it - and consequently the inevitable outcome is that the election of Senator Cario must be cancelled... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u49	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u50	Mr President, I was an Italian woman abroad and I had a reference Member at that time in my life, namely Laura Garavini. I lived in Germany, I know the work of our elected people abroad, and I have the good fortune, as President of the Democratic Party Group, to have among our benches an elected abroad, in a very distant constituency like Australia, which is Senator Francesco Giacobbe. I know the sacrifices he endures all the time, to keep that important contact between his constituents and the work he does here, for his constituents and for all of us. I say this because what is happening today is certainly about this House, but if we had the ability to look further, we would see what is going on beyond the oceans. Mr President, this is not simply the battle of Fabio Porta or the Group of Senators of the Democratic Party: this is a battle that so many of our fellow citizens living abroad have been carrying out for a long time. He is collecting many signatures a petition addressed to the Italian Senate to ask the senators to evaluate carefully, because many do not recognize themselves in that vote expressed by the elected abroad. Indeed, those who have been defined, also in this House and in the report, are going to undermine the hope that our fellow countrymen abroad will be able to have those who really recognize them as their representatives. The words that I am trying to pronounce here today are the same as those that speak to them when they ask us to have a correct attitude, since neither can they afford that there are shadows and opacity on voting abroad. This, in fact, would risk really affecting that value, that history and all those important things that Senator La Pietra first recalled in his speech, as well as the attachment to the vote, leading to a further form of abstentionism. Today the Senate, with an act of courage, is called to do the right thing, which has already been represented here by colleagues and which will be further studied impeccably by our colleague Anna Rossomando, our senator member of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Precisely because those aspects are obvious and in the eyes of all, including our fellow countrymen, we need to give a signal of legality, transparency and justice. It is of fundamental importance for those who believe in institutions to give this signal and allow Fabio Porta to enter soon to occupy what is his place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u51	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the story we are dealing with is about Senator Cario, elected in the foreign constituency also because of electoral frauds established by sworn graphics. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys discussed two issues. As regards the first question, it was found that the appeal was late, as provided for in the formal regulatory framework. However, after further reflection due to the complexity and particularity of the case at the substantive level, we wondered what is really the element that determines the dies a quou of the appeal and, therefore, the time limit for appeal. In the case of Porta it is certainly not the day of the proclamation of Cario, but the actual knowledge of an investigation on frauds. It is obvious that the applicant was only able to challenge the case after having had sufficient confidence in the investigation of the judiciary. As a result, we can consider the lateness of the appeal to be out of date. As for the second critical issue, in Giunta was the lack of evidence of resistance for the small number of controlled electoral sections, so it was not possible to count counterfeit cards in sufficient number to be able to mathematically reverse the outcome of the vote. But we are talking about a very complex case - as has already been said - with thousands of disputed ballots and this has required, for me and for the members of the Junta of the elections and of the parliamentary immunity of the Movimento 5 Stars, further deepening. For obvious reasons, it was not conceivable to be able to make accurate graphological investigations on each individual ballot of the more than 15,000 contestants. Continuing fast, we see only the numbers, some of which we have already listened to. We understand that in section 948 only ten hands have been identified to which we can trace 108 cards, representing 86 percent of the cards sampled in this section. In another section, 1,007, as many as five hands were identified for 100 percent of all sampled cards. In addition, two of the hands detected agree with two of the hands identified in section 948, which I was talking about earlier. Again, be careful: in the third study it was found that, in section 991, on a sample of 50 cards, all the cards were counterfeit because they were completed by the same hand. For some cards - as has already been pointed out in this House - the traces likely attributable to the replica originated from the overlap of one or more cards in marking the name of the candidate Cario, and so on: the hands are always the same. Now, in this Chamber, without taking away anything from the personal value and work that Senator Cario has done so far, I ask everyone the following question: can we accept the shadow of electoral fraud on the election of this Senate? I don't think so. Protecting the right to vote is our duty. This political assembly, the expression of democracy, has a duty to affirm for millions of Italians living abroad the right to express their free and personal vote, as stated in our beautiful Constitution. [[Applause]] Let me now make a brief comment on the general issue that we are dealing with. The present case makes us aware that the voting methods abroad must be completely changed. In fact, there is a great vulnus in voting abroad because there is no transparency in practice when moving ballots. The ballots are sent, their movement is not transparent until they return to the consulate and - beware - there is no certainty - as the president of the electoral office also heard at the hearing in the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity - of those who materially sent them or voted. That is for us in the Movimento 5 Stars, which we have always stood on the side of legality, which is the desire for justice and the protection of democracy, this opacity is not acceptable. That is why we fought to obtain the electronic vote at a distance for Italians abroad in order to open the way to a free vote, except for frauds, starting with the next parliamentary elections. Yes, we succeeded: another battle of legality fought and won in solo by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] In conclusion, President, speaking of the case discussed, although legally acceptable is the thesis that led the chamber of council to lean for the safeguard of the election of Senator Cario, not having passed the test of resistance, are not politically and substantially acceptable its conclusions. We cannot support a situation which has actually revealed obvious electoral frauds, whose responsibilities will be sought elsewhere by the judiciary, with a process at the moment borne by the unknown. Therefore, Mr President, I call on everyone to give a signal of dignity. Let us ensure that all citizens, both inside and outside the geographical boundaries, can be proud to be Italian. We are voting in favour of the agenda for the annulment of this ludicrous election. Italy and the Italians deserve it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u53	The debate on this document is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u54	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u55	I would like to inform you that the agendas for the G1 meeting, presented by Senator Malpezzi and other Senators, and G2, presented by Senator Malpezzi and other Senators, are being distributed and are intended to be presented. I would remind you that the agenda will be voted by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u58	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the agenda, because we cannot accept that there will be any doubt as to the legitimacy of an election of a Member of this House. The frauds are established, pronounced, clamorous and so widespread that, even if the examination concerns only a significant sample of the ballots, they put a very serious shadow on that election. It is clear that this work of pollution of the will of the people can be the result not of some single criminal, but of a joint work and therefore of a criminal association aimed at polluting the result of the vote. We do not know whether and to what extent this criminal work of vow pollution has subverted the outcome of the vote. However, in the face of such a serious doubt, we cannot validate the election of a senator on whom there is a suspicion of such gravity. Therefore, since the agenda clearly states that it is not validating the election of Cairo, we shall vote in favour of it, hoping that further in-depth investigation will definitively establish what really happened in those seats, even if the data at our disposal will allow us to understand it very clearly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u61	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing a case comparable to those before it, because we are not discussing errors of calculation or interpretation of laws to assign seats. We are discussing a very alarming case. There are three issues that are right. The first question: no one questioned the counterfeiting of the cards. There is an objective fact in this House: there are counterfeit cards. Second question: the method of sample analysis is not objectionable. Not only is this a well-established practice, but it is also a method laid down in the Rules of Procedure of this Senate and this House. Third question: the sample is reliable, because the cards analysed do not come from territorial sections, as we are used to considering them, when we think of the seat of that or that other school; they are artificially appointed sections, because the vote by post is then grouped and examined in Italy. This mode makes it a particularly reliable sample, because it is not related to a small portion of territory. Another question: the percentage of counterfeits is so high that it makes the evaluation and method of projection, adopted by three expert expert opinion of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, absolutely reliable and the activity that the electoral committee has carried out in the Junta. I would like to point out that the committee and the prosecutor's adviser have analysed different sheets. So, we're talking about a sum of samples. The Committee found a fumus of pathological circumstances with reference to the calligraphic identity of the expression of the vote. Where's the pathology? It's in quantity. The three expert opinions of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic have examined sheets of five sections other than those of the Committee, acclaiming with certainty a very significant percentage of the votes that had been expressed by the same hands, repeated in several sections. In fact, between one section and the other, there was the same hand that he had worked in one section and the other section. Let me give you a few examples. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome has made three opinions: three sections on the 32 denounced. Counterfeiting rates range from 98% to 100%. Section number 948: Percentage of 86.4 counterfeiting; Section number 1007: 100 per cent of counterfeit cards. We have 32 sections, on which an anonymous percentage has been denounced in favour and in which these percentages have been found in the parties examined. In the remaining 67 sections, again in Buenos Aires, compared with those percentages (98 percent, 100 percent and 86.4%) there is a percentage of votes in favour of Cario of 15.41 percent. Why is the method used for projection and resistance testing very reliable? Let us set an example. To prove resistance, it has not been said: 98 percent counterfeit rate. It's 2 percent left. We're projecting 2%. No: the value of 15.41 percent was projected. That is why all these concomitant elements make the assessment that has been made particularly reliable. I would add that sample analysis - as I said - is rooted in Article 12 (3) of our Rules of Procedure and has precedents for practices of 2002 and 2003, to mention only a few cases. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not the task of this House and Parliament to determine who may have committed an offence and how. If, however, we want to defend the autonomy of Parliament and politics - and we must do so - we have to fill the space that is ours; we must not and cannot leave it empty. It is up to us to defend the dignity and honour of this House. [[Applause]] When it comes to honor and constitutional value, we all know what we're talking about. The electoral process is all the more delicate and is an intrinsically fundamental link in modern democracies to the root of our history, from the very beginning: the electoral process is always very important. In the previous three cases we have extended on perhaps very technical aspects, but we are extending and deepening in order to always have a method and a decision guided by the fundamental element of ensuring a democratic process. As has also been pointed out by those who preceded me, it is the substance that we give to Article 48 of the Constitution, according to which: The vote is personal and equal, free and secret. I therefore believe that we have all the reasons, the reasons and the need for this Parliament to vote in favour of the agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u64	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that today we are being called to a vote which I believe is really important to each of us, because it is a question of whether we want to be in support of legality or not. It is not a question of questioning the functioning of the Italian vote abroad. To those who are inclined to abolish it I say that we can also talk about it at a later time, but precisely in so far as we want to question the validity of the vote of Italians abroad in general, as a vote by correspondence, those colleagues are also called to vote in favour of the agenda presented by Mr Malpezzi and the Democratic Party Group. I repeat that in this case it is not a question of a general nature, but of recognizing that there have been obvious frauds and certified by three experts from the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome. Mr Rossomando and Mr Cucca described all the parameters well. It is not even a question of accusing either person, so it is not a question of blaming the colleague who has benefited in some way from these frauds, but of recognizing that they have been committed, beyond what we think of the vote of the Italians abroad, of which we will then be able to assess the modalities. As a Group we are also the creators of a proposal that aims to secure it, through new technologies that would really sweep the field from any hypothesis of fraud. It is a question of understanding whether, as individual Members of Parliament, we want to create something which would really undermine the dignity of Parliament itself: since fraud is proven, it is a question of whether or not we are willing to legitimise and validate it. I welcome the fact that the Brothers of Italy Group has already expressed its intention to vote in favour of this agenda, because I believe that this vote really affects the conscience of each of us and also the dignity of the institution we represent here. Mr President, it is not a question of judging delays in bringing proceedings. Mr Cucca, as rapporteur, has made it clear that there were no objective elements for Mr Porta to appeal, since neither he nor anyone was aware of the results of the Italian vote abroad. With particular fervour, I am voting in favour of our Group on the agenda at the first signature of Senator Malpezzi and I invite all my colleagues to do the same. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u67	CARIO (Mixed). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I am very quiet, because I know that I am completely unrelated to any argument or manipulation of the electoral outcome in South America. The outcome of an investigation cannot be transferred to a prosecutor who, after almost four years, has not yet raised any charge or sent any guarantee notice; This study was carried out in the absence of an adversarial, on a very small sample of sections (3 out of 99) and on a very small number of cards (only 375), even if it is considered invalid compared to the many tens of thousands of votes I legitimately obtained in 99 sections. Nor can it be considered decisive the investigations carried out by the Junta on a few other sections, always only in relation to a small number of cards, to be considered a minimal sample. I do not think it is possible, therefore, to dispose of my decadence on the basis of the mere proportional transposition of the percentage of ballots unilaterally considered censorable (I repeat: a few tens in 68 sections as a whole) to all the other almost one hundred electoral sections, without having been made in all these sections even if a minimum determination has been made. Apart from the fact that, even by subtracting the ballots considered invalid from the total of the preferences I have reported in the very few sections examined, moreover not even in all the ballots, but only in a small part, still a difference in my favour of thousands of votes, the perital and determining outcome is absolutely irrelevant. I believe that in order to dispose of my forfeiture, all the ballots of all 99 sections of the electoral college should be verified and the proportional transposition of a minimum sample of the ballots examined should not be applied. I finish here and hope to have represented my civil passion, inherited from my father, who was the first publisher of a newspaper in South America. I trust in your vote and in the decision taken by the competent Council. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u68	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the G1 agenda, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The agenda G2, always at the first signature of Senator Malpezzi, I do not consider it foreclosed, having a different motivation, but, to be honest, we are at the limit. Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the G2 agenda, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I therefore call on the Assembly of the Elections to meet on the basis of the follow-up. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.28 p.m. and resumed at 13.19 a.m.) Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u71	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have met the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities after the votes on the foreign constituency. Of course, the Junta had to take note of two documents which led to a wide-ranging debate within it, which we have not concluded, but suspended, also out of respect for our colleagues in this House. The debate was complex and lengthy, because an agenda was rejected. With the first vote, the idea of not validating the election to Senator Cairo was rejected, but it was also voted against the continuation of the agenda that refers to the phrase "prognostic judgment" proposed by Senator Porta. Translating it into current Italian, we refer to the question of cards, that is to say to the prediction that, if those questionable cards had been re-prognostic in the sense of a prediction, of a prognosis, throughout Latin America, they could determine a different result. However, the House voted against this agenda, so in the course of the discussion of the Junta, if we are to take note only of the second agenda, which makes it very clear that we do not validate the election of Cario, who has been voted on, we are not in a position to proclaim another senator, because we cannot ignore the other deliberate of the Assembly, according to which those objections on the ballot are invalid. I remind myself that on this matter the Junta, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, carried out a procedure of contestation with a public hearing, which is diffused, to which the interested parties (the Senator in office and the applicant) introduce themselves with lawyers; then in the chamber of council we have issued a decision, that the Assembly, which is a kind of Court of Cassation, is free to approve or not. However, if we now have to decide who to assign the seat to, because, by rejecting that agenda, the House has in fact decided that the papers and documents of the protester are not valid, what do we do, we move on to the third elected party? This approach could be arbitrary, so there was a very wide-ranging debate between those who also argued that the first agenda precluded the second and those who argued that the second had the opportunity to be voted on. It is not the responsibility of the Junta, because the Presidency has put the agenda to the vote and we take note of this decision and the resolutions of this House. However, in the Junta there are different approaches - I do not mean conflicting - and, as this is a complex affair involving ballots, an election abroad, a criminal procedure that is under way and which has not yet been resolved at the Public Prosecutor's Office, at this moment the Junta is unable to take a decision on the allocation of the seat, if it is to be a serious and meditated decision that will allow all the Groups to express their views. At the short sitting we have had, the Members present have made different assessments; I have prevented the debate on the agenda and their eligibility, because we are the Junta, not the Assembly; the Presidency has the power to lead the work of this House and what it has put to the vote is a decision that has been and is not ours. However, the mandate that we have on whom to discuss and to whom to assign the seat, we would like to understand it, precisely because there are procedures of a certain seriousness and rigour, so it is not that one puts the token and exits the answer. We therefore need to carry out in-depth discussions in Junta on the allocation of the seat, and this cannot be done sic et simpliciter, as the House has voted on two agendas which have different content. In Junta we have already had, in a sort of microcosm, the advance of the discussion and all the points of view have been expressed: there are those who say that the situation is very clear, those who say that it is not, those who say that then the applicant is excluded too. All opinions have been expressed; I am not saying one because I do not have the power to do so, nor do I have the power to question the decisions of this House, but I have the right to claim to the Junta a time to deepen the proper allocation of the seat, on the basis of what has happened, if we have to act seriously and rigorously, as we have to do. Cases of this kind can happen; decisions create a further complexity, the Junta must deepen the mandate that this House has given us, because it is not yet very clear to us. There is a second order of business resolution stating that it does not validate the election of Senator Cario, but in the first one there is also a ruling on the arguments put forward by the applicant, which were the subject of the judgment of the Junta, which had a public hearing, with the lawyers of the parties, so there was no trivial examination. We are told that this does not count, so we will go and discuss the resolution that you voted on. Then I know that many people do not dwell on all the lines of the agenda we are voting on, but we must stick to the cards. So we need, Mr President, to go further in the meetings of the Junta which we shall hold, as we normally do, to those who should be assigned this seat.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u72	Senator Gasparri, are you telling me that it takes time to deepen the succession of Senator Cario? Is that your question? Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). The House says that Senator Cario... president. No, Senator Gasparri, answer me very simply. Expected that Senator Cario has fallen, the Junta needs time for replacement. Is that the question?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u73	Mr President, the answer is as follows: some Members in this House believe - and I believe that the debate on this will be reopened, even if the Junta does not have this competence - that the priority decision appears to be in contradiction with the subsequent decision and that it can preclude it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u74	Senator Gasparri, you must ask the presidency a question. I understand that you asked for time to deepen the issues relating to succession, because now, unlike what happened previously, you cannot do so and you have not done so at the end of the twenty minutes planned, because there is a need for deepening. This presupposes, however, prior to this discourse, the decision on the question of Senator Cario. We are talking, in fact, about times to establish the criteria of a succession. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, the decision has already been taken. The Junta has gathered to determine who should happen to Senator Cario. Otherwise, Senator Gasparri, I don't understand what you're asking.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u75	Mr President, in Junta, where there were no votes because we did not even know what was to be voted on, a number of Members have said that the first vote should not take place in the second. But the Junta can't... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u76	Colleagues, it's like talking about one thing and then another. We can't change the plans for a discussion. [[Applause]] Senator Gasparri, you told me before the Junta met and that there is a difficulty due to the fact that there are two agendas. Evidently you were distracted before, because I, at some point, said that the agendas were being distributed. And when I opened the second vote, I also said that we were in a position at the limit. No one answered; no one answered. Now, I do not like these posthumous reflections very much, because the House has already discussed them. I would have preferred, if there had been any objections, that they should have been raised immediately. In fact, I am not of the opinion that a vote has already taken place in this House, on the basis of a decision that is unappellable. [[Applause]] I also want to give an explanation, however, since I had the doubt that you had. Since the first signatory of the two agendas was always Senator Malpezzi, I asked myself the question that, on the one hand, there was written not to validate the election of Senator Adriano Cario on the basis of the findings of the procedure from which it appears the full reliability of the prognostic judgment as proposed by the defenses carried out by Dr. Porta. If I understand what that means, since Dr. Porta had disputed the seat, he was asked not to validate the election to give Dr. Porta the chance to take over. If I had been asked to take a split vote, as is often the case, I would have said that it was not possible, because the two concepts are linked. In the first order of business it is written not to validate the election of Senator Cario, because we would like to see the full reliability of the election of Dr. Porta. This was rejected. So the question of the election was related to the replacement with Dr. Porta. The other agenda says: I do not want Sic et simpliciter Senator Cario. It was not easy; I had the doubt and I also expressed it by opening the vote, because, having not been foreclosed on the second agenda, it is deduced that Senator Cario has fallen. Now the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities will take all the time it takes, if it does not have the opportunity today to decide otherwise, to carry out all the necessary investigations.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u79	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I can only record to a certain extent the fact that the Senate Assembly voted but does not know what it voted, nor does it know what the practical result of the vote just registered is. Moreover, it is not up to me or the Group of Brothers of Italy to decide on the regularity of the acts that are put to the vote, so we rely on the choice that is made by the Offices and the Presidency. If one of those two agendas was in conflict with the other, it wasn't up to us to say it, but it was up to someone else. We simply expressed our opinion, which was also announced in the explanation of vote. But what I register - and I believe, together with my colleagues, all the groups - is the impossibility of proceeding now with the work of this House both for the case in question and for the subsequent ones. It does not seem to me that there is sufficient clarity or balance in order to be able to proceed calmly to the examination of both this case and the next. I therefore call for the item to be postponed to another date on the agenda so that the Groups, the Council, the President and the institution of the Senate can discuss what has happened, so that the decision we will make - because it is possible for the case to return to the Chamber for a definitive or correct interpretation - can take place after having thoroughly verified what has happened is what is most right to do, especially with regard to compliance with the Rules of Procedure and the laws. After listening to President Gasparri's speech to a certain extent and having listened to his words, recording everyone's difficulty in proceeding correctly and regularly in relation to the decisions already taken, I am asking for the item to be referred back to the agenda, for the convening of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and for a more balanced and more serene examination of the points that still remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u82	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I believe that the dignity of the Senate must be protected by a little order and I believe that all attempts to bring confusion into a situation which, in my view, is very clear must be rejected very firmly. I say first of all that your decision not to consider the two agendas in conflict, and therefore one preclusive of the other, is a fair and correct decision. What I would like to stress most - because someone seems to forget this - is that this is a decision that has been taken without the slightest dispute of anyone in this House. [[Applause]] There is a time and a way to challenge decisions of this kind: it is in this House when they are taken and not elsewhere, at a later time. When it makes the how and the thing very suspicious and this seems to me a clear speech. Equally clear, President, is that this Senate has voted for the decadence of Senator Cario: this is an incontrovertible fact. If this Senate has voted for the decadence of Senator Cario, it is absolutely impossible for me to hear, even in view of the important choices that Parliament must make, the President of the Junta for the elections to tell us that the body that he presides is not able to make a decision as a result of the decadence of Senator Cario. [[Applause]] No one can say this, because it is false, but I must say to Senator Gasparri that the least authorized of all to do so is the President of the Assembly of the elections, because if Senator Cario has fallen, neither President Parrini, nor President Casellati, nor President Gasparri decide how to replace him; it is decided by a law of the State, which is the law governing the election of representatives of Italians abroad. Since Senator Cario has fallen (the data are under everyone's eyes and available for consultation), it goes without saying that, having the split South America obtained two elected, the second elected is up to the Democratic Party and no one is able to make any doubts about the fact that the votes obtained by the Democratic Party and especially by Senator Fabio Porta within the Democratic Party list are perfectly valid, because this has not questioned anyone and no one can question it; while it is certain that Senator Cario has fallen, there is a suspicion about the votes he has collected and that suspicion, which led us to decide in that sense, does not cancel the preferences of Senator Cario, but cancels the votes as a whole and therefore brings the Democratic Party to the second list in that distribution and to the legitimate holder of the second seat. These, Mr President, are facts and I believe that the election committee must quickly decide to replace Senator Cario in the only way it can do so under the law; when there is only one way to comply with the law, no delay is allowed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u85	ROMANI (Misto-I-C-EU). Mr President, I am not a technician in the election committee, of which I have never been a member, but I have read the agendas and I have tried to get an idea of the perplexities that you, Mr President, have expressed and the explanation you have given us now. If I look at the agenda as a third observer, first of all I notice one thing: the premises of the first agenda are identical to the premises of the second and in the device of the first agenda, which was rejected, it is said that the decadence of Senator Cario takes place on the basis of the findings of the procedure, with a singular phrase of the prognostic judgment that Senator Gasparri tried to explain first in good Italian. This means that the reasons for not validating the election of Senator Cario are all in the premises of the agenda and have been rejected. Then, trying not to put you in trouble, President, even accepting - but I think that a mistake has been made - the fact that the second vote has taken place, the reasons on the basis of which the election of Senator Cario is not validated are exactly those described in the premises, which - by chance - are identical to the agenda that has just been rejected. Can you explain to me why Senator Cario should not be validated in his election, since the reasons for the lack of validation of his election have failed? This is the mess you've created. The President has told us that no one has spoken; but we usually trust the common sense, fairness and capacity of the Presidency. I do not think it is appropriate for the House to scream and shout to interrupt a vote; we thought that the Offices recommended it for the best and told you that it was probably better to wait because the second agenda was absolutely included in the first agenda. One comma is missing in the first order of business; it is also badly written. In my opinion there would have been a better point: According to article 135-b, paragraph 2, the election of Senator Cario is not validated. Based on the findings (...). So I don't really know what can be done, but it seems reasonable to me Senator Gasparri's position when he says we need to talk more about it. It seems unacceptable to me, to the point where we have arrived, that today's only determination is the non-validation of the election of Senator Cario, because it is not written that way. In the first device, not approved, the non-validation of the election of Senator Cario was rejected. So I don't know what we have to decide. In my opinion, the Presidency should take a moment of reflection; I do not know if the Rules of Procedure allow it, we will ask Vice-President Calderoli for help. But the only decision we cannot make, to the point where we have arrived, is that the election of Senator Cario is not validated; I think there is no other solution. It will then have to be allowed to the election committee to have all the time necessary and sufficient to decide on a mechanism which has already been rejected in the election committee. In fact, we arrived in the Chamber with a vote of the Election Council of 10 to 5 in favour of validating the election of Senator Cario. In conclusion, Mr President, perhaps there will also be a need for an opinion from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Let us take all the necessary time with caution, because the Senate plenum is also at stake. If someone were to decide today to make Senator Cario decay, since the second was foreclosed and has no chance of taking over, we would find ourselves with one less senator and with the full plenum.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u88	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, today I have the impression that we are experiencing a rather surreal situation. We are moving a little bit away from the reality of the papers and acts we carry out in this House, while respecting their respective competences, because each body has its own competence. To say that Fabio Porta is excluded because that agenda has not been approved is simply an aberration. At this point it should be explained to me why, in the face of an appeal by Senator Boccardi, when the vote ended, we had to gather in the Junta to determine who was to take over. [[Applause]] The only body competent to identify who should take over is not the Assembly, but the Election Council, which, verified the papers, the acts and what happened, says that instead of Guy, Caio must take over, according to the law that Senator Parrini spoke about. These are your homework. So the first order of business was rejected, saying, because the confirmation came later, that the election of Senator Cairo is to be cancelled. However, we have come forward and that is why it has been rejected. It is not up to this House to say who takes over and who does not take over. [[Applause]] It was made clear, with the second agenda, that the election of Senator Cario should have been cancelled, at that point it was up to the Election Council, which correctly the President has invested in his duties, to identify who touches the place that was contested. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities could have done so easily this morning, but there is nothing to prevent anyone who needs further study from doing so. But I want to remember what Senator Romani also said, that we have some fast tasks that are chasing us. Let's think, then. I do not believe that the behaviour of the Senate presidency is in any way incontestable: I personally believe that it was impeccable because different devices - perhaps the premises were the same, but the different devices, because they are different things - have been voted in a different way and with the second, which is the most legitimate, the Junta has invested in the identification of who should take over. Is there anyone who needs to think? Think about it, but hurry up. As far as I am concerned, as I have already said, I quite frankly share everything that has happened here this morning in this House with regard to this case. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u89	Colleagues, I listened with interest to everyone's speeches. Clearly, it is not this House that can decide on the replacement of Senator Cario, who has fallen. I would point out to Senator Romani that his arguments do not convince me. We start from the same premise and generally in the premise we describe the case that is contested and there is in fact a precise description, which coincides in the first part, but one can also describe arriving, as happens in the right, at a main position and then at a subordinate. This happens very often in law so, even starting from the same premises, there can be a main position and a subordinate. In the second, in fact, maybe you haven't seen him, Senator, it says in addition: It was also considered that, as far as it was concerned, it was not in the first - in the light of the obvious irregularities that emerged and the specific importance of prognostic projection, as permitted by the combination of the irregularities that emerged and the uneven distribution of votes in favour of Senator Cario in the area of competence of the Consulate of Buenos Aires, there are irregularities such as to affect the electoral result and the consequent election of Senator Cario himself. The "considered also" was not there before, because, I repeat, the positions were not equal and it was said: This is not good, because the other is good. After all, Dr. Porta's question has been abundantly described in the premise. It is not that the reference to Dr. Porta is nowhere, because it is part of the description of all this complicated process. In the light of these considerations, although your speeches have invited me to reflect even more on the assessment I had already made, I believe that from my point of view I would reiterate the goodness of my decision. The vote in this House has therefore confirmed the decadence of Senator Cario and I am of the opinion that the Junta takes the necessary time, perhaps not today, but at another sitting, to determine who will happen, since perhaps in this case there can be some complication, as you just pointed out, Senator, complication which, however, this House certainly cannot resolve, because it is not within its competence, but within the exclusive competence of the Junta. I shall therefore refer the document back to another sitting, giving you all the time you need. At the Conference of Leaders this afternoon we will decide when the Assembly will consider the issue of who the Junta will decide to indicate. Now let us move on with the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u91	About what? You asked before you postponed. We have voted on a timetable for voting on four subjects today; we have reached the fourth and we can therefore go on to define it, unless someone asks for a break, to resume at 3 p.m. That is all right with me. The House can decide that, but I believe that we must finish, because then we will have to look at the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u92	Mr President, I am well aware of what we defined at the Conference of the Leaders, but I also noticed the confusion about the vote. I had asked for the fourth item to be updated to the agenda on another date, to be defined in the Group leaders. I believe that this is possible, provided, of course, that this House agrees. My request is therefore to postpone the fourth point to another sitting, which will define the Conference of Leaders, which is convened for the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u93	We have already voted on this point, so I am not calling into question a decision that has already been taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u94	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 7. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Modena, whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has already been submitted and is complete in all its parts, so I refer to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u96	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u97	Mr President, the seat that has become vacant is that of the Veneto Region, for the disappearance of Senator Paolo Saviane. In Junta I took a position according to which I voted, hoping that Senator Durnwalder's report would be adopted, which he had correctly assessed that Article 57 of the Constitution requires the election of senators on a regional basis. Therefore, it could not be assumed that the seat could be assigned outside the colleges that insist on the Veneto Region. I agreed with him and confirmed my opinion, which unfortunately was rejected by the Junta, which instead approved Senator Modena's report today at our examination. This case, from my point of view, seems substantially similar to the one on which the Assembly pronounced itself in 2019 with reference to the vacant seat of the Region of Sicily. Then, in my speeches both in the Junta and in the Assembly, I stressed that a mistake was being made in not considering the dictation of the Constitution on the vote for the Senate, which is on a regional basis. Today I repeat the issue, highlighting a difference from that vote: then we were referring to a single party, like the Movimento 5 Stars, while today we are in the presence of a coalition and this, therefore, allows the allocation of the seat in the regional. I therefore confirm my position of adherence to Senator Durnwalder's report, which unfortunately has not been accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u98	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u99	Mr President, as Senator Grasso said before me, the disappearance of Senator Saviane, elected on the lists of the League in a multi-name college in Veneto, places the need to assign that seat. The limit that the Constitution places on Article 57 for which the Senate is elected on a regional basis, ladies and gentlemen, should prevent imaginative solutions. This limit is also confirmed by the Senate's electoral law, which expressly excludes the applicability of Article 84 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957 in Article 17-a of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993, which contemporates the principle of Article 57 with the tendency to supplement the plenum of the Assembly, stating that the so-called transfer to another regional district cannot be made. It is a textual and express limit, therefore, when a list, even because it has occurred, as laid down 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, has exhausted the number of candidates submitted in a multi-annual college and it is not possible to assign to it the seats that would be held in that college, it is carried out according to three criteria in descending order. The seats are assigned first of all to the same list in the other plurinomial colleges of the same constituency (Article 84, second paragraph); if it is not enough, if there is no possibility, the seats are allocated to the candidates of the non-elected list in the original unnomional college or, failing that, in that of the division (Article 84, paragraph 3). If that is not enough, the seats are no longer assigned to the original list, but to the list of coalitions that has reported the highest remains either in the original plurinomial college or, failing that, in that of the district (Article 84, paragraph 5). In short, the principle laid down by Article 57 is insurmountable and this insurmountability, although it has found a precedent for the Sicilian election, however it does not allow to reaffirm a constitutional vulnus that has been put in place, because the provision of article 17-a, as I said, expressly prevents to apply for the Senate of article 84, paragraph 4 and therefore prevents to attribute the seats to other regional districts. You cannot therefore elect a senator in a region other than the one in which he was originally the list. For this reason, I agree with the report which Senator Grasso originally put before me and will therefore vote against Senator Modena's proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u101	Mr President, as a result of the disappearance of Senator Paolo Saviane, proclaimed in the multi-annual college 1 of the Veneto Region for the list of the League, a seat has become vacant among the elected with the proportional division, so it is necessary to indicate the successor. However, in the concrete case, the list of the League - belonging to the late Senator Paolo Saviane - has exhausted the number of candidates not elected in the Region in the colleges both plurinomial and uninomial; therefore, it is not possible to apply paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 84 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957, to which refer articles 17-bis and 19 of Legislative Decree n. 533 of 1993. Therefore, in order to reconstitute the completeness of the plenum of this Senate, it is necessary to consider the provisions of the following articles of the aforementioned legislative decree of 1993, considering the initial operations for the purposes of the first proclamations or, as in this case, since they are subsequent operations, for the purposes of the sub-contracts - I repeat, for the purposes of the sub-contracts - in the course of the legislature. Article 19 states that, in the event that a seat in a multi-annual college remains vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred, Article 86 of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Chamber of Deputies shall apply. In the event that a list has already exhausted its candidates, the procedure laid down in Article 84 shall be followed. If, at the end of the operation referred to in paragraph 3, seats still remain to be assigned to the list, the national central electoral office, after notification of the circumscription central office, shall identify the division in which the list has the most decimal part of the unused quotient and shall in turn make appropriate communication to the competent circumscription central office. The latter shall arrange for the allocation of seats in accordance with paragraph 2. If, at the end of the operation referred to in the previous periods, seats still remain to be assigned to the list, they shall be allocated in the other districts where the same list has the most decimal part of the quotient already used, proceeding in descending order. Article 19 of the single text for the election of the Senate, concerning in particular - it is repeated - the subentres in the course of the legislature, refers to Article 86 tout court of the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, which refers in turn to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 84, in view of the fact that the Assembly, approving at its session of 31 July 2019, the report of the Junta on the proclamation of a candidate in Umbria - since in Sicily the Movimento 5 Stars had exhausted unelected candidates - considered also applicable to the Senate the rules of electoral legislation involving the shift between regions of the proclamations in case of necessity; therefore, implicitly considered not to preclude to this end the dictation of Article 57 of the Constitution concerning the election on a regional basis of the Senate. We proceed to verify that the Lega list has obtained the highest quotient that has not given place of allocation of seats within the various circumscriptions in the Calabria Region. Therefore, the seat is to be attributed to the above list in the Calabria Region. The first of the non-elected of the list in the Calabria Region is the candidate Minasi Clotilde, since Matteo Salvini was already proclaimed in the Lazio Region in the first division of seats. This option seems to be the most consistent with the literal and systematic interpretation of the Senate's electoral law: if, on the one hand, Article 17-bis refers to the criteria laid down in Article 84 of the 1957 President's Decree, with the exception of paragraphs 4, 6 and 7, on the other hand, Article 19 admits that seats are also allocated in accordance with Article 84. Article 19, paragraph 2, of the legislative decree of 1993 states that, in case it remains vacant for any cause, even if it occurred, a seat in a plurinomial college, Article 86 of the single text of the laws laying down rules for the election of the Chamber, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957, applies. This provision in turn, in the event that a list has already exhausted its candidates, refers to the procedures laid down in Article 84. As a result, therefore, of the double postponement, the applicability of the same article 84, paragraph 4, to the election of the Senate seems to be re-admitted, despite the exclusion ordered at first instance by the referral to article 17 -bis. It should be made clear that Articles 17-a and 19 do not contradict each other, since the two articles have different aims and fields of application: the 17-bis identifies the criteria for allocating seats to the lists, the outcome of the division carried out in accordance with Article 17; it identifies the ordinary modalities by which seats should be allocated to candidates. Article 19, on the other hand, is a closing rule aimed at preventing a seat from remaining vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred. To this end, it shall identify certain criteria applicable in a residual manner where it has not been possible to allocate all seats in accordance with the arrangements laid down. The latter rule, therefore, strikes a balance between the pre-eminent need to ensure the formation of the Senate plenum and the constitutional principle under which senators are elected on a regional basis. This balance in fact results in a reversal of the order of the criteria for the allocation of seats provided for in Article 84, so that for the election of the Senate the criterion provided for in paragraph 4 of that article is applied only in the last sentence, when according to the criteria referred to in the preceding paragraphs, referred to in Article 17-a, it was not possible to assign all the seats within the constituency, while in any case the criteria referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7 remain excluded. In conclusion, the issue does not concern the assignment of the seat to a list, since this operation has already involved the recognition of the seat to the League list, but the identification of the candidate of the same list that takes over from Senator Saviane. Therefore, pursuant to Article 19, paragraph 2, of the single text for the election of the Senate, concerning in particular - I repeat - the subentres in the course of the legislature, which refers to Article 86 of the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, which in turn refers expressly and specifically to paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Article 84 and in view of the fact that the Senate, already approving at its session of 31 July 2019 the report of the Junta on the proclamation of a candidate in Umbria, since in Sicily the Movimento 5 Stars had exhausted the unelected candidates, considered applicable also in the Senate the rules of electoral legislation involving the slipping between regions of the proclamations in case of necessity and therefore implicitly deemed not obstructive, to this end, the dictation of Article 57 of the Constitution concerning the election on a regional basis of the Senate. It is therefore necessary to replace the late Senator Paolo Saviane by identifying the circuit in which the League list obtained the highest quotient that did not give rise to the allocation of seats. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u102	The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u103	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u104	I inform you that the G1 agenda has been received by the Presidency, presented by Senator Balboni and other senators, who are in distribution and who I invite the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u105	Mr. President [[Brusio. References by the President]] , we are tired and therefore I understand that the House may not have so much desire to continue in its work anymore. However, I would like to stress that, as we have had the law and the law as an exclusive reference point throughout the debate, here too I believe that this House must take note of the fact that the rapporteur's proposal is manifestly unfounded. It is in fact possible to formulate the proposal that a seat in Veneto should go to Calabria, after Senator Grassi just a short time ago, on another document on the agenda, said that the representativeness of the territory is an indispensable value. Today it is proposed instead that with the votes of Veneto a Senator of Calabria should be elected. Excuse me, colleagues, but it seems slightly contradictory to me. We call for the precedent of Sicily, but this precedent has nothing to do with it, because in this case - let us remember - the House decided to assign the seat to Umbria because we were in the presence of a regulatory vacuum. The Movimento 5 Stars had exhausted all its candidates in plurinomial lists and also in uninomial colleges. The alternative was between not assigning the seat or finding a solution. The solution was found by an extraordinary and exceptional decision which disregarded Article 57 of the Constitution. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful, because in the report by Senator Urraro, voted by this House, it is written: we must go out of the Region of Sicily because the Movimento 5 Stars has no linked lists. Because if he had linked lists, the most constitutionally oriented and correct solution would have been to assign the vacant seat to the list linked with the highest non-used quotient. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today we have proof of what Senator Andreotti said, quoting Giolitti, who was sitting just a few steps away from me: the law for friends is interpreted and for all the others it applies. Because we're here in front of a friend, we're playing it. Since Brothers of Italy is the only force of opposition in this House, apply it as it seems to you, ladies and gentlemen. To support the thesis of the rapporteur and the League (in Junta there are six members belonging to the League, which therefore, in view of the majority, voted what it wanted) you must refer to Article 19, which recalls Article 84 of the electoral law on the House, which in turn recalls Article 86 of the Law on the House. No one has explained to me what is the ratio that must distinguish the case in which a seat is attributed from the case in which there must be a subpoena. Dear President, I have been taught that the law must be interpreted - yes - according to the literal meaning of each word, but above all to give a rational reason for its letter. No one in this House is able to explain to me what is the rational reason why, when you assign a seat, you have to operate in one way and when you take it to another seat, because of one rule that calls for another, which still calls for another, then you have to apply a completely different ratio and discipline. There is no logical explanation. On the other hand, it would be enough not to read Article 57 of the Constitution, but Article 1 of the Senate electoral law which, Title One, contains the general provisions. I understand that the general provisions always prevail over the exception of the third power exception of the third rule. Article 1 states that the Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis. Without prejudice to the seats assigned to the foreign constituency, seats shall be allocated among the Regions in accordance with Article 57 of the Constitution, on the basis of the results of the last census. Someone, again, should explain to me how it is possible to disregard not only Article 57 of the Constitution (and it would already be serious enough), but above all the general provisions of the law that we ourselves are applying today. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this agenda and, as we have requested so far, in all the discussions that have taken place so far, we are asking the House to abide by the law. Forgive me, Mr President, I must also ask you to proceed with the secret vote in this case, because it is clear that we are not just discussing a general and abstract issue. Mr President, please listen to me: in the Senator Modena's report, in the first paragraph, paragraph 4, we make a name and a surname, which is that of Dr. Clotilde Minasi, and also on our agenda there is a name and a surname because we argue that according to the law and only according to the law, which should be our only reference, the seat should be attributed to Bartolomeo Amidei. We do not therefore vote only on an abstract matter, but we vote on two people and for this reason I, on behalf of the whole group of Brothers of Italy, ask that, as on all other documents, also on this agenda for fairness, par conditio and also to allow every senator to express himself in total freedom, we vote with the secret vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u106	So, there is a secret vote request that has just been made and that Senator Balboni had already sent in writing. With regard to this, unlike what he considered in his exposition, the object of this discussion is not the identification of the successor senator, even if he speaks of a person, but the identification of an interpretative criterion. It is so true that Senator Modena said in her report that the Junta proposed to the Assembly to replace Senator Saviane by identifying the constituency in which the League list obtained the highest quotient which did not give rise to the allocation of seats. It is therefore a question of identifying a criterion, not of identifying a person. Moreover, the President cannot decide who can be the successor because this, as we have also seen from the previous debate, can only be the work of the Assembly of elections and parliamentary immunities. The President is simply proclaiming what is the result of the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Therefore, since they are not people, but criteria - so much so that I have read precisely in order not to give rise to arbitrary interpretations, rather than discretionary - the vote cannot be secret, but it must be obvious. And with regard to the reference made by Senator Balboni himself to what has been done in the previous votes, I note that this is an absolutely different case, which has nothing to do with the cases that we have previously examined. In fact, while in the previous votes we voted ex lege with secret vote precisely because it is so planned, in this case he had to request it through the petition that bears the signature of 20 senators. In view of this, I believe that the secret vote cannot be obtained and that the vote must be taken by a clear vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u109	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, of course, I respect the evaluation of the President of the Senate, who refers to the text of my colleague, Mr Modena, although we are voting on the text of the agenda at the first signature of Senator Balboni, who clearly states in the provision, on the basis of the reasons set out above, that he wants the Assembly to decide that Bartolomeo Amidei is elected in the college where the said Senator was elected. Apart from that, I do not want and I cannot, even for my role as Vice President, fail to have a duty of courtesy towards the President, who does not believe, as in the truth, that in this case too the vote on the person is prevalent; it is clear, in fact, that this vote does not derive a theoretical fact but if he becomes senator the one or the other: the name is on the agenda, then that will come. I understand the other subject, but it seems to me that it would be appropriate, as you can do very well in accordance with Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure (but you can do it no matter what), to refer the matter to the junta for the Rules of Procedure, because we are in one of those cases where there is a need to understand what interest prevails. There is no doubt that there are both, both of which you considered to be prevalent, and - I believe you do not exclude it - the need to consider that the vote results in a matter relating to people. Rule 18 (3 bis) of the Rules of Procedure presupposes that you should address the Committee on the Rules of Procedure when one or more Group Presidents whose number is at least one third of the members of the Senate raise a question of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure; in that case it is basically mandatory, but you can do so without first determining whether or not this condition exists; if you think you should do so yourself, I would be delighted, because I do not think that we need to decide on this issue immediately, because today there is no greater vacuum than yesterday. I therefore ask you to refer the matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure; if you do not feel that you should do so, out of respect for your role and for having already expressed an opinion (which would not fail with my request), I would formally ask you to check whether there is a requirement under Article 18, paragraph 3-a, i.e. Group Presidents whose numerical size is equal to at least one third of the members of the Senate who ask that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, without, of course, assuming a decision. I also address the members of the non-center right-wing groups in asking whether they believe that such a matter can be resolved on the basis of the legitimate prevailing judgment that you have given, or whether it is appropriate to codify it by a decision of the junta for the Rules of Procedure which may go one way or the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u110	Senator La Russa, I would like to point out to you that, in Senator Balboni's request, clearly on the agenda before me, what he writes is out of the question. It is not this House that can decide who is going to replace a senator, in this case Senator Saviane. It is not the House; it must always be the Council. Let's continue the speech we gave earlier. It is not the President who decides; it is the House that decides when the criterion is established. It may be my opinion, acceptable or unsatisfying, but let me say it anyway. We are talking about a criterion. The criterion does not involve the person and that is why I first read the conclusions and requests of Senator Modena. And it is not a sophistry, because we discussed it first for half an hour, when I asked Senator Gasparri what he asked me, because it was clear that I could not enter and I can never enter the merit of who can replace who does what, because this is the main task of the Junta. Therefore, I remain of my opinion on the obvious vote. If, as you say, there are, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 3-a, one or more Group Presidents, whose numerical consistency is equal to at least one third of the members of the Senate, this is not me who must seek it, but rather, it is I who must be the subject of a request.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u113	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I respect your decision. However, as you have just concluded, I would ask you for a few minutes' suspension to check the convergence of other groups on our proposal, in accordance with the rule of the Rules of Procedure that you have just outlined.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u114	Senator Balboni, this is the House. I should have received the proposal here, actually. However, if there are any groups that are currently in line with your proposal, all they have to do is say it because we know how to count and because we are talking about a numerical consistency of at least one third of the members of the Senate, we understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u117	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I wanted to bring to the attention of my fellow Members, from whom I learned a great deal this morning, the argument that regulations and laws, unlike what I have just heard, can be interpreted. Anyway, let's talk about people. We saw this morning's vote. It was not a party vote, but it was a vote of esteem for people, affection and gratitude. Any of us who voted, for one reason or another, did not do so lightly, because we are talking about life, women and men, their present and their future. Therefore, it is clear that, according to the laws, the Rules of Procedure, the Code, everyone can be more or less right. The exponent of the Democratic Party, the exponent of the League, the exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars, may be right. Everyone can have a margin of reason, so much so that some votes ended 127 to 129. A vote, even, ended in one way at the first vote and in the opposite way to the second vote. Can I, apart from the Constitution, the law, the Councils and the Regulations, remind myself and the House of a small detail? We are talking about who could take over the place of my friend Paul, whom many of you will have known and esteemed. [[Applause]] , not as a Senator of the League but as a man, who was sitting there and not by his choice is no longer sitting there. [[Applause]] I am embarrassed that you enter into the regulatory merit of someone who has been called by the good God to another part and whose family and community would know very well what they would like in his place. If Senator Saviane could intervene for two minutes, he would be embarrassed to have to defend a cause of someone who cannot be defended. We're talking about Paul, who was there, and now he's not there anymore. Can I ask you for humanity - not for politics, for the logic of one more or less vote, for the Quirinale, for the budget law or for the confidence that will be voted on tonight - if we can close it with this farce and proceed to the vote for respect not of a legist but of a senator of this Republic? [[Applause]] It's embarrassing what we're listening to. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u120	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, as regards the request by my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy Group to refer the matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Democratic Party is not against it. I believe that this is a situation that has never occurred; a deepening is probably due, so we also call on the Presidency to make a positive assessment of this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is there anyone else who wants to intervene? [[Comments]] Since there has been a point of order, I understand that it can be annoying, but I have to give the floor to one representative per group, if requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u122	For what, Senator La Russa? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). You just said that a senator can intervene for each group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He has already spoken on a point of order. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, it seems to me that you have said that a senator can speak for each group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u123	I said that one Senator per Group could speak on his point of order. So I gave Senator Salvini, Senator Marcucci the floor, and I asked if anyone else wanted to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u124	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u126	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I simply wish to say that the reasons of Senator Salvini of the League are absolutely convincing from a human point of view. In Junta we did not express a strong opposition to the solution, because however from the ethical and moral point of view it is peaceful that the votes are of the League, so it is not a scandal if a parliamentarians of the League takes over, without having to resort to defenses of office from the afterlife, that we do not know what they would be like. I acknowledge to President Salvini the ethical and moral goodness of his words, but I think it is not wrong to ask that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should say in general, since we are talking about a technical question, whether it is correct in such cases as this to resort to a clear or secret vote. Nothing is therefore contrary to what President Salvini said, but there is nothing scandalous about asking, as in all the other cases on which we voted today (because those could also be a different kind of issue), a vote that the junta for the Rules of Procedure can decide whether it is obvious or secret, without offense to anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u127	Are there explanations of vote on the G1 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u130	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I apologize if I steal another ten minutes, but I believe that the question raised by Senator Salvini deserves an answer. It deserves a reply from President Ignazio La Russa, who has already spoken, but it also deserves an answer from those who have tabled the G1 agenda, of which I am the first signatory. There is no doubt, in fact, that those votes are of the League. I also address a deference and emotional thought to the memory of Senator Saviane. There's no doubt about that. However, the subject - let me say this - is different. When we presented ourselves as a coalition in the 2018 elections, we signed a pact and according to that pact the remains went in some cases to the advantage of a list and in other cases to the advantage of another list. The presence in coalition led to the fact that each party belonging to that coalition had advantages, at least in the one-name colleges, where, without the vote of the Brothers of Italy, dozens of senators and deputies of the League would not be elected and vice versa. So, the law needs to be read in its entirety and in its entirety. We are not discussing here whether it is right or wrong that this seat should be attributed to the League; it might also be right that this seat should be assigned to the League. The point is, the law says something different. We don't like the law, we change the law; we don't like Article 57 of the Constitution, we change Article 57 of the Constitution; we don't like Article 1 of the Senate electoral law, which I read earlier, we also change Article 1 of the Senate electoral law. However, ladies and gentlemen, until now we have voted with the law as a point of reference, because legality is always a value; it is a value when the norm rewards you and it is a value also and especially when the norm does not reward you, because the law applies as a law. It is not only a seat of the Senate that is at stake here, ladies and gentlemen, but above all the principle of the rule of law, which does not draw the rules as an elastic band where it is most convenient for it, but applies them without caring for feelings, albeit legitimate, and aspirations, albeit legitimate. Otherwise, Senator Minuto would still sit in this Chamber and we would have taken different decisions if we had not referred exclusively to the law. The law, ladies and gentlemen, is a value and if it is a value it must always be defended, even in this case. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u131	So both Senator La Russa and Senator Balboni spoke, not in an explanation of vote on the agenda, but on the content of the Junta's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u134	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it somewhat uncomfortable to speak today and honestly I did not intend to take part in this debate, because I was hoping that a debate on this subject would not take place: I was hoping that, in the light of the report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, there would be a unanimous vote. Every time we think about Paolo Saviane - let me say this - our Group has great emotions. We recalled this in his land, in Puos d'Alpago, we remembered it in this Chamber and, again, we remembered it and commemorated it in a religious celebration here in Rome. All of us have always felt strong emotions on every occasion when we have remembered it. Today, however, let me say it, I feel only sadness and bitterness because today we do not remember Paolo Saviane; unfortunately today we are witnessing a bad show. We're fighting over Paul's remains, his political legacy, his seat. [[Applause]] We all know that there are no perfect electoral laws, just as there are no perfect rules. Often there are gaps that cause doubts and uncertainties, but there is a clear precedent in this legislature, which has assigned a seat of Sicily to a representative of Umbria of the same political party to which it was to be assigned. [[Applause]] To those who have doubts about the award of Paolo Saviane's seat, I remind them that Paul honored his senatorial mandate by being elected exclusively by the electorate of the League. [[Applause]] I would remind everyone that the proportional share of this imperfect law does not include a coalition vote, but only a list vote, and that is why we believe that there is no doubt about it and that it is right to respect the will of the voters. Beyond these considerations, however, there is an unwritten rule, which makes us believe that instead of the elected party, a representative of his own party, of his own political family, should take over. [[Applause]] I really didn't know whether to say these things or not, but I do it because the requests for postponement and secret voting have further - allow me - disgusted me. [[Applause]] I would have been ashamed if after my friend Stefano Bertacco's premature disappearance, my movement had demanded candidacy in his boarding school. [[Applause]] I would have been ashamed if, in the face of the premature disappearance of a colleague from any party, in the presence of a lack of legislation, we had made demands in our favour to collect his political heritage. [[Applause]] The mixture that is taking place on the remains of our dear colleague Paolo Saviane is shameful and does not honour this House. [[Applause]] The rules can be drawn from all sides, but there are firm points that in some cases should prevail in the face of doubts and uncertainties. Paolo Saviane was a Senator of the League, elected exclusively by voters of the League. It is right that a Legist should take his political legacy and sit in this Senate. [[Applause]] Everyone, with his own vote, will respond to his conscience and fortunately he will do so in a clear way. Let's close this sad show soon. Forgive us, Paolo. However you vote in this House, we will always remember you with esteem and affection. A hug to you and your family from the entire Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u137	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I apologise for altering the order of speech, but I would like to ask the Presidency for a clarification so that we do not again run into mistakes. I would like to ask the Presidency for the courtesy of specifying exactly what we are voting on. If I am not mistaken, we would have understood this: first we vote on the agenda signed by Brothers of Italy, secondly the decisions of the Junta. That's the order, right?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u138	That's right. I call on Senator Balboni and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G1 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the report of the European Parliamentary Assembly on elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u141	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I just want to say that I was truly sorry about the tones in which the legitimate vote of the League was presented. I said clearly, Mr President, that ethically and morally there is no adversity to the League's request to have a Legist instead of a deceased Legist. However, I must say that another request had come from Veneto: that another Venetian senator should take over, as the Constitution prescribes. So I'd lower my tones. We're voting and you know that we didn't press controversy about this, we didn't fight. Therefore, dear President Salvini, dear friends of the League, let me express not what you have called disgust, but my surprise at the tones you are using compared to a proposal by my colleague Balboni, formalized according to the criteria laid down in the Constitution and the law of the Senate. You may not agree, but getting to the tones I heard before, let me say, I find it really - this yes - incomprehensible; not disgusting, but incomprehensible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u142	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the issue of the vacant seat in the Veneto Region. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In order to allow the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to carry out investigations concerning the identification of the candidate entitled to be proclaimed on the basis of the resolution approved by the Assembly, I authorize the Junta to convene itself as of now. I suspend our work in order to give time to the Junta to decide so that it can carry out the proclamation. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 2.59 p.m.) I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has announced that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533 of 20 December 1993, the allocation of the seat following the approval of the report on the issue of the seat not assigned in Veneto, has found in today's sitting that the candidate to whom the seat is assigned is Clotilde Minasi. I acknowledge the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of this communication and I declare Senator Clotilde Minasi. I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation. Colleagues, I suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. and call the Conference of Leaders for 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 7.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u143	The Government has announced the position of the question of trust on an amendment entirely replacing the decree-law in tax matters and labour protection. The Conference of Leaders therefore organised the relevant discussion. As soon as received - presumably around 8 p.m. - the text will be forwarded to the Budget Committee for the evaluation of financial profiles. We shall then proceed directly to the explanations of vote. He'll follow you. As already stated, next week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, in particular the 5th standing Commission on the draft budget law. The Assembly will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 14 December to discuss the drawing-up of the bill on cultural heritage offences approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the incitement to self-harm. The possible afternoon part of the session on Wednesday 15 December will be suspended, from 11 am to 12.30 pm, in conjunction with the ceremony of greetings to the parliamentary press, scheduled at the Chapter Hall of the Palazzo della Minerva (the so-called warmer). At 4 p.m. on Wednesday 15, the President of the Council of Ministers' communications with a view to the European Council of 16 and 17 December were confirmed. The timetable can be integrated with the discussion of the Senate's accounts and internal budget, as soon as the requirements of Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure have been defined. The Conference of Leaders will meet again at 3.30 p.m. on Tuesday 14 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u144	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 16 December: [[Tuesday, December 14, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 882 - Cultural heritage crimes (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2086 - Incitement to self-harm (from the preparing seat) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021 (Wednesday 15, at 16) Wednesday 15 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 16 " h. 9,30]] The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the Report and of the Senate's Internal Budget, where the requirements laid down in Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure are defined. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] I am suspending the sitting until 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 8.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u145	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2426. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. The rapporteurs do not intend to speak in response. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u146	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the draft law converting the decree-law in question, which fully transposes the amending proposals approved by the Joint Commissions, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust, subject to the opinion of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u147	In the light of the Minister's statement, the Presidency shall assess the acceptable amendment, pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament again, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment fully replacing the single article of draft law No 2426, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u149	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government and, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, which is now authorised to convene. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, there is no good news, in the sense that the Commission is still working. In fact, we have no official news from the President, but we have learned that the Commission needs at least another 30 minutes of work. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 21.07 a.m. and resumed at 21.38 a.m.) I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u150	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that is not an obstacle conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the deletion, in Article 2 of paragraph 1-a. The opinion is also conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the transposition of the following amendments: in Article 3-b, after paragraph 1, the following is added: ==References====External links== To the lower revenues valued in 9.95 million euros for the year 2021 and 6,6 million euros annual from 2022 to 2030, it is provided, for the year 2021 by corresponding reduction of the Fund for structural interventions of economic policy, referred to in article 10, paragraph 5, of Decree-Law 29 November 2004, n. 282, converted, with modifications, from the law 27 December 2004, n. 307, and for the years 2022 to 2030 by corresponding reduction of the Fund for the compensation of the financial effects not previewed to current legislation consequent to the actualization of multi-annual contributions, referred to in article 6, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law 7 October 2008, n. 154, converted, with modifications, from the law 4 December 2008, n. 189. The extension referred to in the first period shall not apply in the presence of public evidence procedures relating to the granting of concessions provided for in Article 18 of Law No 84 of 28 January 1994, or in Article 36 of the Navigation Code, already defined by the award on the date of entry into force of the Conversion Act. Where the public evidence procedures referred to in the previous period are already initiated on that date, the extension shall be limited to the time strictly necessary for the award of such evidence.'; finally, the following words are added to Article 5 (a) (3): "and with reference to the contribution years which have matured since that date."; in Article 9-bis, paragraph "Article 12-bis', in paragraphs 1 and 4, the words "for 2021' shall be replaced by the following: "for 2022'; in Article 12-b, the following words shall be added: "for the recognition of the monthly allowance referred to in that Article 13'; in Article 12-quinquies, paragraph 2, the following period shall be deleted: "For the period of work for which such remuneration is received, the credit of the figurative contribution is recognised for social security purposes, as determined in accordance with Article 40 of Law no. 183."; in Article 16, paragraph 8 -quinquies is replaced by the following: "To the common headquarters of metropolitan city with a deficit per capita of more than € 700, a total contribution of 150 million euros in the year 2021 to be broken down in proportion to the amount of the said deficit, net of the contributions allocated in 2021 referred to in Article 53 of Decree-Law 14 August 2020, n. 104, converted with amendments by Law 13 October 2020, n. 126, and paragraph 775 of Article 1 of Law 30 December 2020, n. 178, of Article 52 of Decree-Law 5 May 2021, n. 73, converted with amendments by Law 23 July 2021, n. 106, and of Article 38, paragraph 1 -septies, of Decree-Law 34 of 30 April 2019, converted with amendments by Law 28 June 2019, n. 58. For the purpose of calculating the deficit per capita, reference is made to the administrative deficit resulting from the 2020 financial statements or the latest available financial statements sent to the general government database (BDAP), also on the basis of pre-consuntivo data, reduced by the contributions referred to in the previous period allocated for the year 2021. The contribution referred to in the first period, to be allocated to the reduction of the deficit, shall be distributed within five days of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law by decree of the Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in agreement with the State-City Conference and local autonomousities. As a result of the use of the contribution, any larger scale of the administrative deficit applied to the first financial year of the budget than foreseen in the return plans may not be applied to the budget for subsequent years."; in Article 1 6-bis, paragraph 9, the word "also" is deleted; in Article 16-octies, paragraph 1, at the last period, the words: "of Article 12, paragraph 2, lett. (a) "are replaced by the following: "Article 12 (6)"; in Annex I, the following words shall be inserted at the end of the text: The opinion is also made with the following comment, made for the purposes of formal coordination: in Article 12 -quinquies, under the heading, it is considered to replace the word "enterprises" with the following: "start-up." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u151	Yes, Mr. President. The Government transposes and accepts all the conditions and comments put forward by the Budget Committee, thus considering the text of the amendment fully replacing the bill in our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u152	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u155	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of my Group and ask for permission to hand over the text to the record. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u156	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u159	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I too have a request to hand over the full text of the speech and I am voting in favour of the Italian Group Viva-PSI. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u162	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy, of course, do not give up speaking. [[Applause]] on a related to the financial law. It does not give up because we have so much to say and we would also like to use the time of our colleagues who have given up their speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u163	This is not possible, but you have ten minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u164	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). We will try to say, in the time allowed to us, how much we believe is necessary for our electors and citizens. Mr President, representatives of the Government, we will certainly not vote for this decree-law, which - and I would like to remind my fellow Members, if they had forgotten it - is the 84th since the beginning of the parliamentary term which will, in fact, be adopted under the single-chamber regime (after only one House, that is, worked on it). Of these 84 decrees, almost all of them have been approved with the vote of confidence, just as we are preparing to deal with this very important measure, because it is linked to the financial law of next year. It is a tax decree-law that we consider poor, not only in the economic aspect, but also in the content. We would certainly have expected something better, something more. [[Brusio.]] Sometimes you don't need the money... president. I would ask colleagues to leave the Chamber. Everyone can decide whether to stay and listen or go out. Please, Senator De Bertoldi, continue. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I understand that by now the activity is considered to be delegated exclusively to the Government, but I believe that it is morally and ethically necessary for the parliamentarians to regain their role, and certainly we of Brothers of Italy do not renounce to do so. It is a decree-law that we have tried to amend even with two nights spent in the Commission to make a contribution and try to give something more to our country, our entrepreneurs, our workers and our pensioners. Unfortunately, little has been achieved by the government and the majority. We are proud to have conducted a battle that has allowed us to give answers to school leaders, also thanks to the commitment and the solicitations that Mr Iannone, here at my side, has addressed to protect against the unjustified responsibilities in which the leaders of our schools incurred. We are happy, but not satisfied, to have received some feedback on the issue of cash. As you know, from next year we will have an incomprehensible reduction in its use, which even makes us almost unique in Europe, when we know that it is that same European unit that reminds us that cash is the only legal currency. In Italy, however, we want to limit and further reduce the use of cash to 1,000 euros from next year. We wanted to prevent it, but we were only recognized that the previous levels of use of cash for money changers are maintained: very little, but certainly better than nothing. We have received some answers on the issue of social security funds, which will have at least certain times in the expectation of ministerial opinions, which unfortunately does not happen today. In this regard - let me say this and I address above all to the esteemed representatives of the Government with whom we have been confronted - I appeal and express a wish: have more courage in your role, have more confidence in politics and do not too often remain hostages of those ministerial bureaucracies that are often the real protagonists of politics. It is not acceptable that politics and legislative and executive power should all too often bow to ministerial bureaucracies that want to impose their will and opinion even beyond their own competences. [[Applause]] There are many issues, Mr President, which this decree could better address. Let us think of only one, on which I am still addressing you, colleagues and representatives of the Government: I would like to remind you that the Government has accepted a binding agenda. You have not accepted an agenda with the commitment to assess the opportunity of... but that commits you not for the day after tomorrow, but for today; it commits you to the budget law - I want to remind you of this and we will remind you of it day by day - to give a response to those two million Italian families who have the collection records - so-called Covid - now expired on 30 November, extended by this tax decree-law to 9 December (i.e. to 14). However, they have been extended to that date with the agreement, thanks to the agenda presented by Brothers of Italy and accepted, which commits you to move the installment of collection records for the balance and removal and scrap-b at the end of 2022. We will remind you now, day by day, in the Commissions and in this House, because we want you to take this commitment seriously, not only towards us, but above all the Italians who are watching you and us. Then there is the theme of the patent box: for once there was a rule that gave and rewarded the results achieved by the use of trademarks and patents, research and development. What did you do? You have eliminated it in order to make a general contribution, through deductions, a little bit to all investments; a little less, but to all, while they used to give themselves to the investments that produced results (so they detaxed the positive ones); it is a step back and it is a sin. We invite you to reflect on this too. I proceed because the themes are many, the time is little and the evening is also late. This decree-law must also be read in the light of the overall maneuver. At one time the tax decree was called related to the financial law; well, this related gave little. We, who are optimistic people and believe in our country, in our country and in our colleagues, would like you to amaze us in the budget law, improving it, working in the Commission better than we could in the Finance Committee on this tax decree, and so it was possible to give the answers we expect. I am thinking of tax reform in these two minutes, of those eight billions that are an inevitability when we want to talk about tax reductions. How can you turn to Italians on the subject of tax reform, reasoning from the perspective of the one comma some point percent of the total tax revenues? Clearly, in the face of more than 500 billion tax revenues, reasoning of eight billion means reasoning of crumbs. We have had a deficit of 180 billion this year, and yet we do not go beyond eight billion on the subject of tax reform. It is little and it serves little while serving more courage. We hope that there will be a willingness in the amendment to do something more. Something more will also have to be done on the subject of energy and raw materials. On bills for businesses, local authorities and citizens two or three billion will not suffice; you will unfortunately notice and we will notice. Even the Dragon Government, however, the Government of the best - I say this without controversy towards the friends of Movimento 5, Stars, who also know our absolute and continuous opposition to the income of citizenship - is strengthening the income of citizenship; it has even further refinanced it by a billion. Instead of investing in active labour policies and giving more money to businesses, therefore, it was also decided in the Draghi Government - I stress - to give further support to the income of citizenship. We are against it and we repeat it. We would like money to be invested in the culture of work, in the culture of business, in active labour policies and in the tax reduction for those who want to work and undertake because the tax reward for those who produce in this country must be the point of reference. Mr President, I would like to mention the issue of building bonuses. I make another appeal in the name of certainty and simplicity: why did you make these bonuses so difficult? Give a certain time horizon to all bonuses; simplify the rules and remember that bonuses have had value because there is credit transferability, because there is transferability of tax credits. That is the way and on that road, if you are there, surely the opposition will be there in a serious, concrete and proactive way, as we have done every day in our parliamentary commitments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u167	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, having undertaken to deliver the papers which are the subject of thought and writing, I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour and convey from my hands what I wanted to submit to collective reasoning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u168	An ovation, Senator D'Alfonso. The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u171	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as President D'Alfonso has given his speech, I would say that this House should give a very big round of applause because it is news. I never would have said that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u172	He's already had it. At this time of day, we can also make interventions of this kind.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u175	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, in declaring the LEU Group's vote in favour, despite the critical remarks I would have made if I had done so in full, I would ask you to allow me to deliver the written text of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u176	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u177	If you want, announce whether the vote is for or against because it is useful to understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u180	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also declares its vote in favour and I ask for permission to deliver the written text of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u181	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u183	It won't be less, Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u184	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall try to live up to the sacrifice you are asking me to make. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry to interrupt. I'm not asking for any sacrifice. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Spontaneously and without any request from the Presidency I declare the Group's support, to which I am honoured to belong, and I follow the example of the President of Alphonso, asking for permission to hand over the "paper" of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u185	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u186	A " summa di eloquentia" this intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u189	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group's conversion into law of the tax-employment decree and I ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. I believe we have broken the record of the fastest explanations of vote of the year. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u190	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021 on the approval of which the Government has asked - again this time - the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders on 16 November, each Senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fregolent is drawn by lot.) I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber and in the vicinity of access to the Presidency bench. (Brusio). The senators for trust will answer yes, the opposing senators will answer no, the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u193	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I should like to speak briefly on the order of business. Don't worry, I won't stay long. I just want to stigmatize that, not only are we facing yet another demand for trust...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u194	Senator, you know that at this stage... RAUTI (FdI). I have something to say, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just a minute and I'll let you know. You know that at this stage an intervention on the order of business would also be foreclosed if it is an intervention on the order of business. If you want to stigmatize, since you started, tell us what you stigmatize and move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u195	I shall conclude then by saying that I do not like to see that, compared to the withdrawn interventions, they are batting their hands. [[Comments.]] We're here beating hands to those who decided not to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u196	It's clear. I'll say it again. The senator said that perhaps applause is not appropriate, even if it is an ancient tradition when the text of the intervention is deposited and it is not an absolute novelty. It has its own logic. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fregolent. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, is appealing. (In the course of voting, it takes the Presidency - at 22.30 a.m.) PRESIDENT. - The vote is closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 146 of 21 October 2021 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 188 Senators voting 188 Majority 95 Favorables 175 Contrars 13]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 146 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u197	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-385.ana.u198	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 14 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.48 a.m.
