ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u6	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I speak with reference to the extreme weather events that have occurred since Sunday and have lasted in most of the Lombardy and Piedmontese territory, revealing itself particularly violent and worrying in the province of Como and also involving the Province of Sondrio, with particular reference to the territory of Chiavenna. On Sunday in the Province of Como was hit the western shore, in the municipality of Blevio, where people were evacuated. The footage we were able to see on the news was really impressive and I heard friends telling me the fear of seeing deafening mud cascades dragging logs and everything. Our territory is very fragile, of incredible beauty, but, precisely for this reason, the banks so steep and the streams and streams that go down to the lake make the situation very difficult, when a very intense rain falls in such a short time. The wet soil cannot drain and the mudfalls that all lead to the lake form. The territory of Blevio was also affected. I understand that, although there has been a very prompt intervention by the Civil Protection and the Prefecture and the machinery of the institutions has started with great efficiency, the state road 583 Lariana is interrupted and is trying to restore it, with the clearing of debris and mud, but some fractions are still isolated. There was an equally violent phenomenon, which hit the eastern bank, from Cernobbio and Tavernola to Colonno; all the streams have grown and the images are really scary. The panic took the people, who saw the cars take away; part of the state road 340 Regina was closed; a bus was stuck in a tunnel in Brienno with fifty people on board; water supplies were suspended in some municipalities, but above all Moltrasio, Laglio, Argegno, Colonno and Cernobbio, which we usually hear mentioned for the beauty and tourism of great quality that involves them. The Region has responded with great readiness and the mobile columns of Civil Protection have intervened, but unfortunately, given the situation, you can not pass by land, so the rescue arrives with difficulty. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u7	Colleagues, please, the senator, who is almost at the end of the intervention, is exposing facts that I believe require everyone's attention. I therefore ask you to moderate the tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u8	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). This means that certain interventions, in order to function, must pass along the water line, so the situation is really important. The problem is that there are no alternative roads; even, towards Val D'Intelvi in Schignano the pavement of the roads was lifted and a river was dug out of the water in the streets. The statement of the state of emergency is therefore necessary, because the damage is very serious. The inhabitants of Lake Como, the so-called lakes, are very sloppy people and tireless workers, but they have suffered an incredible blow to their homes and are afraid for the health and safety of their families. It is a precious territory, not only for the province of Como, but for the whole of Italy, because it is one of the most beautiful tourist places, most fascinating and most appreciated by foreign tourists. I hope there is a lot of attention not only from the Lombardy Region, but also from the Government everything. I cry out for pain: let us save and protect our territory. Even though the rains were expected, in the face of such a quantity of water and the violence of hail and wind, little could be done. There needs to be a lot of closeness. I thank President Alberti Casellati who wanted to convey his closeness to me and to all the comaschi. The situation is to be restored, because it is a fundamental area also from the economic point of view, so it is right that it is given prominence and that there is the proximity of the whole country to a population so affected. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u9	Thank you, Senator Rivolta. Of course, on behalf of this House, we express solidarity with families, local administrations and economic operators whose activities have been affected by this disaster. There will certainly be no shortage of Parliament's attention to the necessary measures, which are unfortunately increasingly frequent due to climatic emergencies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u12	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in order to allow us to deal with these issues, I would ask you to be able to speak at the end of the sitting to explain the requests that come from Sardinia following the declaration of the state of disaster that struck our island during the last fires that have really devastated the territory, creating great concerns. If you will allow me, I will speak at the end of the sitting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u13	Of course, Senator Floris; on the contrary, he gives me the opportunity to remind the House that at the end of the sitting there will be speeches on this very serious disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u14	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2332, already approved by the House of Deputies. I recall that at yesterday's sitting the general discussion took place and the representative of the Government raised the question of trust in the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 77.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u17	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for a measure which is difficult to tell in a few minutes, because it contains a lot of rules and because it has been at the heart of a rich and articulated debate in the House, until we are given back an undoubtedly improved text. I am thinking in particular of the enlargement of the permanent table with representatives of active citizenship and the inclusion in the directing booth of representatives of municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities. I am thinking of improvements compared to the control and verification of processes and also some changes in merit, such as the one that extends the 110% bonus for social purposes, such as hospitals and nursing homes. All this is yet another confirmation of the importance of parliamentary activity and of the centrality that the Chambers must have on such important measures. Of course, I also say this with a little envy for colleagues in the House and with regret because, on the instrument that lays down the rules for the next few years, here in the Senate we are limited to a purely bureaucratic passage; and it is a shame, because there is still a number of knots to be dissolved. I am referring in particular to the participation of the special self-employed in all funding from the PNRR and the National Plan for Complementary Investments (NPC). This must be done independently of the extension of the types of competence that characterizes the individual autonomy and its responsibilities in their financing. Moreover, assuming that the resources of the recovery are not attributable to the general national taxation, the participation of the self-employed in these financings will have to disregard any financial and accounting rules and mechanisms that regulate the financial relations between the central and the special autonomous states. At the same time, in the context of the constraints and objectives of the PNRR, the role of direction and coordination that the special self-governments play in relation to the municipalities, should be safeguarded due to the competence in the field of local finance. If this did not happen, it would simply be absurd and could be a matter for litigation and delays in the use of resources. We hope that Government and individual Ministries will act on the resources of the PNRR and the PNC of their own competence to define appropriate criteria for access to resources or to modify those currently applied to ensure that they are properly allocated to all territories. We are in another delicate passage, Mr President, with the growth of cases, the slowing down of vaccinations, doubts and protests about the green pass, as well as the choices to be made for an orderly reopening of the school year. As I said last week, national unity also shows itself by supporting choices that may be unpopular in the immediate future, but that in the long run increase the credibility of the state and confidence in the institutions. For this reason, I do not even want to imagine how much distrust towards the country system would be determined if Italy could not spend European aid. We must continue to work for simplification, to unravel the remaining issues of resource management, structural reforms, justice in the first place, and to develop credible projects that are useful for the growth of the territories, which is why the role of local authorities is vital. We must not just make haste; we must also do well. This measure is the pillar around which both things can be done. For this reason, I announce the vote in favour of the Group for Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u20	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the Decree-Law governing the PNRR and simplifications is an ambitious and necessary measure, put in place to remedy the delays that could arise from some bureaucratic and political quirks, putting at serious risk the whole strategy of relaunching Italy. In fact, it aims at the effective digitisation of the country, with the full involvement of young people in a sector that is in their hands, and to actually meet the challenge that we have before us, through the provisions of inclusion, to promote youth entrepreneurship, gender equality, the recruitment of young people and the creation of new digital infrastructures, with the effective investment of the resources provided by Europe and the real possibility of bringing fiber across the national territory, reducing the waiting times of authorisations by more than half. Citizens and businesses will finally be able to make use of better quality digital services and, with public administrations in a position to provide services in the right time and to purchase IT goods and services quickly and effectively, it will be easier for workers to access smart working and students to innovative teaching activities. The measure also contains valuable measures to simplify procurement procedures and here it is necessary to refer to the simplification decree-law of 2020, with which we have allowed the acceleration of procedures, with important derogations from the procurement code. However, for a better application, perhaps more measures would have been needed, but I also stress that we need a ruling class capable of applying regulations and laws with competence, for a real unblocking of bureaucracy, which is often due not only to the coercion of rules, but also to negligence and the inability to act to protect the interests of citizens and the public or private sector. In this direction the forecast also goes that, on the one hand, confers the operational realization of the actions previewed to the central administrations, the Regions, the autonomous Provinces and the local authorities, on the base of their specific competences and through own structures, but, on the other hand, determines a substitution power of the State in case of non-compliance from one of the actuators subjects, where the attainment of the intermediate and final objectives of the PNRR is put at risk. This is an assumption of responsibility on the part of the State, but it must necessarily give rise to the same responsibility in the actuators, who must act with professionalism, using the tools to achieve public investment and with a clear increase in efficiency of each activity. It is also important to provide for the application of measures and speed-up procedures to the projects contained in the National Investment Plan complementary to the PNRR, by extending the financial procedures to the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund, whose EUR 15.5 billion contribute to the financing of these interventions, in derogation from specific sector regulations. Always with a view to achieving the objectives of the PNRR, the technical structure of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility is strongly addressed, creating an ad hoc procedure for a predetermined series of works of particular strategic importance, entirely financed, that must be carried out respecting the set schedule. Among these, I would like to remind you of the construction of the Palermo-Catania-Messina railway axis and the Salerno-Reggio Calabria railway line. With the decree-law in question we also intervene on the discipline of the tax credit provided in relation to the investments made in the special economic zones (ZES), raising the maximum limit of the same credit with facility extended to the purchase of properties instrumental to the investments and with possibility of use beyond 2022, there being no time limit to the use in compensation. As a national contact person of Italy Viva for the internal areas are also satisfied with the rules that, intervening on the national strategy, will allow to implement the actions identified with the cooperation between the institutional levels concerned and the coordination of the Ministry for the South and territorial cohesion. It is also positive to accelerate the procedures relating to property confiscated from the mafias, to the timely conduct of activities on the interventions of valorization of these assets, with the possibility, for those not assigned as a result of public evidence procedures, to be used by the territorial authorities, as well as for the profit purposes with reuse of the relative proceeds, for social purposes, also for the support of extraordinary maintenance expenses. Colleagues, as a Member of the South, I have finally noted particular attention and various measures in favour of the Mezzogiorno in the decree-law on the agenda. I now turn to the territories of the South, to those who represent them at the various administrative and political levels. The South can really be the protagonist for the great potentialities from which development can start, promoting the South, instead of always denigrating the work done, highlighting instrumental differences. The resources are there and I say to my fellow Members, but also to those who listen to me from the territories, who, rather than crying at each other, must be well invested to achieve what is possible and what is owed to the citizens, without counting the change more or less than the other regions. Italy is one and, until we work and think in a visionary perspective also of Country-Italy in a European and international context, we will hardly get rid of prejudices and the long-standing southern issue, brought into play with regret by some nostalgics of Bourbon times, improperly using the call to Magna Grecia, which is still there before our eyes, addicted by a fog that makes us be shortsighted, without realizing that the opportunities are at hand. One of these, perhaps the most important to truly unite the country and to relaunch the Mezzogiorno, creating thousands of jobs and ensuring a moral and social redemption for our young people and businesses, is the concrete possibility to build the bridge over the Strait of Messina. It is no longer a legend, but a dream that comes true, thanks to three factors in synergy never happened before: the favorable political front ever wider, of which proves the intergroup parliamentary that I honor to have promoted; the great determination of engineer Pietro Salini, ready to support to a large extent the work with Webuild; and the full willingness of the Calabria and Sicily Regions to turn to the financial market to find the missing funds. A government that focuses on growth can only be in favour of this work and I thank President Draghi who is following the dossier directly and has given willingness to meet as soon as possible a delegation of the intergroup. With this Government there is really room for a new vision and to demonstrate a capacity that goes beyond, beyond political flags and speeches, to restore trust to our wonderful Italy, making us rediscover, with the humility of the great, the dignity of being women and men of the State. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Italia Viva-P.S.I. Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u23	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I would very much like to be tired of the Commission's work today, and perhaps I would like to have spent the night examining amendments and making amendments to an important decree-law which could be essential and fundamental to the implementation of the PNRR. I would very much like to be here today, perhaps, not on trust, but on the merits of a measure. Instead, we are here, Mr. Representative of the Government, for yet another vote of confidence and so we continue on this ugly road, which has been taken for too long. We have talked about this several times, I myself spoke about it last week: we are now on a path that seems to be without return, far from respecting democratic rules and the Constitutional Charter. The President of the Republic has spoken in the past hours - we thank him for this - highlighting the abuse of urgent decree, which - I remember - is defined as such because it is not ordinary, or at least so it should be; and instead, we continue to proceed with the use of this instrument, but we still worsen the situation, approving decrees that some specialized newspaper called "paccetta tutto" because we insert everything. The President of the Republic, in fact, called you back, but I fear that there are too many Sardinian people here, as well as the demands of democratic rules, also the calls of the President of the Republic. I want to see if in the next few weeks you will continue unceasingly with this violation of the constitutional norms and not to accept the appeals of the President of the Republic. I would not like to mention - but I do so anyway, because I believe it is particularly useful for the Government - what I said last week, namely that 95% of the implementing decrees provided for by the Government of Dragons are not yet implemented. This means that the potential of the regulations and interventions of the state in fact is limited almost in full, that is, we shoot blanks. We are therefore yet another confidence, yet another violation and yet another disarray to the Senate, which is here to vote, without being able to affect a measure, and to now express an almost ritual vote of confidence to the Government, on the other hand, dear colleagues, of the perhaps wider majority of republican history, from the extreme left to our center-right allies, the friends of the League and of Forza Italia. You are all together, you have the greatest majority and, despite that, recurring to the vote of confidence. One might wonder why. Moreover, I do not believe that the only opposition present, that of the Brothers of Italy, can be attributed to having made obstructionism, presenting packages of amendments, because it has simply tried, with seriousness, as it has always done, to improve with some proposal and with some planning the decrees that arrive in the parliamentary classrooms. Despite all this, always resort to a vote of confidence. It is clear - the citizens must know - that you use the vote of confidence to escape from the bowel problems that characterize your majority, that politically it does not exist and therefore it holds a government to which it is entrusted almost the total autonomy in deciding the fate of the country. You have entrusted the country to a government that is free, in fact, to do what it wants, so the Chambers have renounced the role that the Constitution and democratic rules would impose on them. The Senate then - I hope President Casellati wants to make his voice heard as soon as possible - has been marginalized for a few months now by the main measures of the country, which are approved and discussed in the Chamber and come here for a simple walkway. I would therefore like to thank President D'Alfonso for having accepted the appeal that Brothers of Italy, also through me, addressed last week, asking all institutional representatives, the Presidents of the Commissions in the first place, to address the Presidents of the Chambers so that together, in the protection of democracy and the Constitution, they may address the President of the Republic. President D'Alfonso accepted this call. I know that you wrote a letter to President Casellati and I really hope that the latter will immediately address itself to a battle in defence not only of the Senate, but also of democracy and the Constitution. We ask it out loud. [[Applause]] On the subject, we have a lot to say. As I have already said, the measure before us is the way to an easier landing of funds in the economy and an easier reversal of financial benefits in the economic fabric of the country. There is a need for simplification and much need to improve these aspects, together and everywhere. However, it is necessary not only to limit simplifications to the PNRR, but also to ensure that they come out of the specific legislation and enter the ordinary one. We need simplifications everywhere and not just in the implementation of the PNRR. This is a step that we must understand and extend to all our national regulatory realities. I am thinking of procurement, health care, infrastructure and all those barriers to entry that have been preventing national and international capitals from flowing into our country for years because of these difficulties, which must be eliminated. Why, then, has this decree not been taken as an opportunity to go further, not only by doing the necessary work on the PNRR, but by extending the simplification project to the entire legislation and legal fabric on which the activities and legislative projects take place? Mr President, there is the issue of bureaucracy, another aspect that we will all have to deal with and which is fully part of simplification. What are we seeing here, too? That you have to give a vote of confidence to the government. I want to remind the friends of the League and of Forza Italia that all the great bureaucrats and committees of state are returning. Fornero is coming back - and I don't know if you're happy, my colleagues and friends of the League - and Arcuri is coming back to be a favorite of the political majority. Gentlemen, it is politics that is really being marginalized here, and it is the democratic institutions that are no longer considered. Unfortunately we are governed by characters - I mentioned two, but there would be many others - who have no popular investiture and who, unfortunately, determine the fate of our country. Mr President, I shall conclude with a few questions. I'm waiting to see what's going to happen in the next few days, because I've seen a few tips. For example, I have seen that my regional regions in Veneto have obtained an appreciable opportunity to manage the motorways with their CAV, a company participated by Regione Veneto and ANAS. Considering that at the end of this month the concession of the A22-Autostrada del Brennero will expire, I have some doubts about the fact that, within a few hours, the only Italian Region that will be able to manage the highways is Veneto. I repeat: this happens a few hours after the expiry of the A22 motorway concession. Measures that in themselves would also be positive and that should be extended to all Italian regions that wanted it, must not enter the matches within the majority, with a tip to someone, rather than to someone else. A strategic vision is needed in the national interest of the country, in the interest of all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator De Bertoldi. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I do conclude, Mr President. How much we could have told ourselves about these issues and how many things we could have faced (on digital, 5G, cloud), but the contradictions of the majority did not allow it. The closure of confidence does not allow us to make a contribution in this case either. Consequently, the Brothers of Italy Group, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, can only express with conviction and with great seriousness a vote against the confidence of a Government that has de facto expropriated democracy and the democratic rules of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u26	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I think there is a full awareness in the country that the opportunity provided by the funding of PNRR and Next generation EU cannot be wasted. There is full awareness among the political forces, especially by the majority to judge from the last intervention, of the fact that these funds will have to be spent soon and well - there is no alternative to this - with an additional clarification: there will be no alibi, because there is a clear measurable of what will happen. If GDP increases, if the billions of euros spent annually on public investment will grow by an "x" greater than one in the coming years than in 2019, Italy will have made it, the policy will have made it and the revival of the economy will be a concrete fact. And, when an objective is measurable, everyone is more obliged to commit themselves to making this measurement lead to an absolutely positive judgment. This is what this decree is about: establishing what the funding is, we need to see how to spend it as soon as possible and at the same time also well, having clear figures of approach at certain costs. The decree addresses virtually all the issues that need to be dealt with. It starts with the organisation of resource management, governance, monitoring of Parliament, and I will have an impact on this shortly. It then addresses the issues of environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental assessment, not only luckily for the work of the PNRR, but also rightly for those of the PNIEC (Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate), because also those are absolutely fundamental so that the figure I referred to before sustainability, cohesion and digitisation is present in all measures. The theme of incentives is addressed, but above all the rules for investments in renewable sources, of superbonus: here too, with some improvement during the examination in the Chamber, there is no extension, but simplification of procedures through the prediction of the CILA alone. The issue of digitisation is addressed and then, with great precision, we intervene in some points of procurement, therefore of the realization of public works, which will be the part on which I will focus most in my speech. Although the themes are different and disparate, I think I see clearly an organic design, a figure, which is what I referred to earlier, which distinguishes all the different interventions. In a nutshell I could say that we work to do quickly and well, with efficiency and transparency, with attention to the environment, but against the ideas of unjustified and indiscriminate blocks compared to investments needed by the country. The House has definitely improved the text and here I can only join the reflections made by other colleagues: it is clear that there is a regret for not having been able to do it too. We also had things to say in the Commission, measures to be taken. It was not possible: we understand the gravity of the moment, we understand that we must run and run, alas, abandoning a role that we would have liked to play as a Democratic Party in this branch of Parliament. The House's improvements are also in the direction of greater involvement of Parliament, which will be able to judge six-monthly what is happening. On the role of Municipalities and Provinces, as well as Regions, in the direction booth there is a very important fact (I say for us parliamentarians of the South, but it is easy to say that it is for Italy), that it is to arm the figure of 40% of investments precisely in the South. There is a nice PD amendment, signed by Mr Rotta, which was also adopted to ensure that gender equality exists in all governance bodies. That too seems to me to be a good thing. On the contracts, the Government behaved exactly as it had announced. When we passed the PNRR resolutions, we knew that it was written in the text that the Government would act in two different ways: everything that was urgent would be the subject of a decree-law, what we are discussing, while we were referring to a law that delegated a more comprehensive and general revision of the Procurement Code. This has happened, because the delegation law has been presented and assigned to the Senate and the 8th Commission, where perhaps, with colleagues from the PD (which I see Senator D'Arienzo), but I would say with colleagues from all the Groups, we can play our role. The PNRR in the field of procurement tries to intervene on the whole chain: planning, design and acquisition of opinions, which is always the most sensitive point; it then intervenes on the assignments of services and works, execution, testing and disputes. In most cases there is a strengthening and a postponement of the date of some forecasts that already in the decree-simplifications law, approved in September last year, we had put in field with the previous government. A series of measures that we thought could only remain in force until December 2021 (in fact, in the text of the decree there was written June), are brought rightly and pragmatically to June 2023, because it is a long time that we need and probably even a little more. For example, the technical-consultative college is strengthened and extended, a very important tool to avoid disputes, as well as the safe conduct of erorial accountability. Already with the previous government we thought to give a very important signal to officials of the public administration: feel protected in case of errors made in good faith, but feel unprotected in case of omissions. In essence, it is a way to try to overcome the theme of the fear of signing. The integrated contract has also been extended: this is a measure on which the PD has given its consent with some suffering, having always considered that the centrality of the executive project was the basis of a correct completion of all procedures, but a war comme à la guerra. It was necessary; indeed it is expected that it can also be done on technical and economic feasibility projects, which has aroused some disagreement, but it is known, for example, that the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, the Taranto-Potenza-Battipaglia and Genoa-Ventimiglia today are at that level of design and if you want to realize them by 2026, there was no other choice. The ternal of sub-contracts is suspended. There are news - I do not go into the matter, because I see that I have almost run out of time - for the thresholds of the works, for the services and two other great news: a specific EIA commission for the PNRR and PNIEC works, so as to have a faster speed (we all know that that is a bottle neck) and a centralized superintendence than these works. The latter is a very important measure for me, because too many times we see in the national territory a discrepancy in the opinions of the superintendences, which in itself is a high discretion, which makes different the different areas of the country. Let's hope it works, because it's an important bet. Other points will be addressed in the law-law: one of them is the qualification and reduction of contracting stations. Sometimes a little provocatively I happen to say that an excellent code with a bad contracting station will not make the works realized, while an excellent contracting station, even with bad laws, arrives at the realization of the work. So that's one of the key issues, but we'll talk about it when we get to the delegation law. I was saying before it's a big bet that we have to win and we have to do it together. There is a beautiful word in my political culture that is "subsidiarity": well, this is a case in which politics, public administration, officials and businesses must each play their part and none of the others. This virtuous approach will make us win the bet. We are a great country, we must face the coming months and years with a positive spirit and enthusiasm, aware that we are asking ourselves something difficult and fundamental: to bring Italy, the Italian economy and society back to the role that belongs to a great country like ours. I repeat: enthusiasm, positivity and desire to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u29	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we are once again... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the fact that, when you finish your speech, you are totally indifferent to the right of other colleagues to be able to do so is absolutely not good. Your conversations reach the presidency very loudly, let alone those who need to speak. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, for the umpteenth time in recent times, we have to get rid of a measure without being able to change it - because it expires on 30 July - but in fact not even examine and discuss in the relevant Commissions. In the case of the Decree-Law simplifications we are faced with a real tear. I want to say this because it is obviously also about the role of this House, because unfortunately - I repeat this again - all this has happened often in recent times. But in the case of the decree-law simplifications the data are really impressive: this provision arrived in the House with sixty-seven articles, while it reaches the Senate - we now examine them by weight, depending on how much they weigh - practically doubled. In fact, in the Chamber there was the introduction of another fifty-four articles, very often - for those who had the opportunity to examine it - including rules quite foreign and not homogeneous with respect to the subject of the decree-law. This, in my opinion, is absolutely conflicting with the call, made authoritatively a few days ago, by the President of the Republic. I understand that we are in an emergency and that we are in a situation in which we certainly have to run, but I believe that it is in the responsibility of this House, and also of the Leaders, to find a way so that this can no longer happen, because the role is lacking: here we are often speaking out without knowing, and I believe that this is absolutely no longer possible. The decree-law under discussion went to the 1st Commission yesterday for incardination and someone had the opportunity to say something in general discussion. The measure did not have the opinions of the Commissions that were directly involved; it had, in fact, but practically did not examine it. I am thinking of the Environment Commission and the Commission as well as public works, which have very important powers over the content of this decree. We are therefore quickly in the Chamber today and with the Senate procedure - you know that, Mr President - we have no chance of seeing agendas or amendments, and therefore we cannot even articulate proposals for the future. It's a wound that we'll have to find a way to heal. We come to the merits of the measure. I think that we have a great responsibility; a responsibility that belongs to the whole country and therefore, even more so, to the political decision-makers. In fact, we have the PNRR which has precise missions, but also very precise times for its implementation. I would like to recall the missions coming from the choices made with the Next generation EU. Among these missions, I note first of all the ecological transition, the green transition, and related to it, the intervention on the acceleration of the processes of digitalization, of innovation of the country and of social and territorial cohesion. To achieve all this - and this, yes, is a big bet - you don't have to look at the past. Mr President, we have started the sitting today, remembering what is happening in the North, but we could also remember what is happening in Sardinia. If, while we have these missions, which belong to the country, we continue to look back, we will continue to remove the issue on which we should run and speed up in the right way. I am referring to the fight against climate change. This is our mission, the mission of the country; otherwise such phenomena will happen continuously and not only will we have economic damage, but also to people and their lives. We must recover from the pandemic, but first of all we must put the country in a position to rebuild a model of healthy progress and development on the basis of the green transition. To do this - I say very clearly - one cannot look at the models of the past. Let me say that we do not risk winning the bet with the measure at our examination because we all understand that we must speed up, simplify, have the certainty of the grounding of the projects, but we cannot recover again models, even simplification, that have been bankrupt in the past. Let me give you a few examples to be very clear. There is a crossroads of procedures already established with the famous Italian decree unblocking last legislature and I wonder if anyone has taken stock of those procedures. There at least there was a decree in which the works were decided. The measure before us goes even further because with the model provided for in Article 18 it is ensured that already in the decree itself all the works that are in the PNRR, in the National Integrated Plan for Energy and Climate 2030 (PNIEC) and in Annex 1-a immediately become urgent and indifferent. Another operation is then carried out; procedures of the objective law are recovered. In fact, when it is said that everything is done with the old preliminary draft, now called a feasibility project and not a definitive project, it is actually taken as a model that way of proceeding. However, I would like to point out, Mr President, that this law has failed because only 4% of the list of strategic projects planned have been implemented. It has given rise to disputes, corruption and opaque patterns. From this point of view, I do not understand that we cannot continually resurrect models that have already been revealed to fail, I wonder if it is a disease, a cultural problem or our apparatus. Today we had before us the bet to speed up and simplify, but also to have a clear idea and a clear model present in all accelerations and simplification procedures. Look, we need to know that the Next generation EU has a basic principle: no project, nor those directly present in Mission 2, nor all others, must cause significant damage to the environment. How, then, do we not take care of the EIA (environmental impact check)? However, another Commission is added to the PNIEC Commission (so let's start again with another Commission), where there is no certainty of environmental verification. Mr President, I find this very serious, because we will be able to put our country back under the conditions I do not say of departure, but also to go much further and win our bet if we involve the citizens. The PNRR must also be a way to fully participate and involve citizens. What do we do on the EIA instead? The public debate is reduced to 30 days: an incomprehensible reduction. Not to mention the fact that for the works listed in Annex I- bis there is an indulgence: there are still works focused on fossils, instead of speeding up the energy transition. This is also a matter of substance. I thought, since 2007, that I had finally abandoned CIP6: I see it reappearing, so they put together renewable energy sources with incinerators. Not only that, because on secondary fossil fuels (CSS) you even do an operation for which you can go to burn everywhere, regardless of the authorization. [[Applause]] I have given some examples, but I could also talk about the whole part of the procurement. So we risk not winning our bet. Here all are careful observers of Article 81 of the Constitution, but the environmental impact and environmental sustainability of a work must be assessed, so that it does not harm the environment; that should be our Article 81! Each work should be examined from that point of view. This would be the great revolution. [[Applause]] We had the skills and the ability to speed up and streamline procedures, really making an innovative and environmentally sustainable operation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u32	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am almost happy to speak after my colleague from Liberi and Uguali, Senator De Petris, whom I value so much but which is so far removed from my view and from the view of the Forza Italia Group. It is absolutely incomprehensible how one can think of making procedures faster and faster, maintaining infrastructure and a baroque and nineteenth-century bureaucracy, as well as, in fact, it has been desired so far. We thank the Lord that now there is Mario Draghi, president of the Council of Ministers, who thinks differently from the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause]] Having said that, I would like to express my regret and address the representative of the Government, my dear friend, Mrs Deborah Bergamini, who is here representing the Ministry for Relations with Parliament. We are all aware of the emerging situation we have been experiencing and have been saying this for months, but we are equally aware of the regret that, in particular we senators, we have for not having been able to contribute to the substance, not even in part, not even in terms of discussion in the Commission, as you well know, because unfortunately this standardisation system through the decree-laws limits the possibility of intervention to a single House. In fact, we are living in a situation of monocamerality in our legislative process. We are moving forward as a matter of urgency: I realize that this is absolutely necessary, but I take this opportunity to reiterate once again that there is an absolute need for reform. It is no longer possible to remain inert in the face of a situation where - more than fifteen to sixteen months have passed - nothing is done at parliamentary level to try to remedy it. Personally, I have submitted a draft reform; I have spoken to Mr D'Incà, who also has the delegation to reform; the legislature is about to end and nothing is being done about it. Moreover, the number of Parliament's representatives has fallen by almost half, so if we do not reform immediately, we really do get out of it badly. Returning to the decree-law simplifications, as someone has already mentioned, the provision intervenes for the second time, a few years later, on a topic, which is that of the Baroque approach, nineteenth century, of our bureaucracy that also acts behind the illusion of transparency, the impossibility, according to some, of intervening against corruption if not through a series of infrastructural impediments, of Baroque administrative procedures that in fact become a sort of obstruction to a rapid succession of events concerning our public administration, therefore, the realization of works and in summary of answers to citizens. The fact that we intervene for the second time shows that what I said about a year ago, in September 2020, was correct: with the Government Count 2 we tried to intervene much more effectively. Personally, I have produced dozens of amendments to unlock the public procurement situation - my colleague knows that - and on many other issues relating to private intervention in construction, we did not want to listen, there was no reason: PD, 5 Stars and LEU strongly opposed this. Today, thanking the Lord, there is a Government that has instead realized that it was necessary to go beyond that type of obstructionism, that nineteenth-century vision surpassed, that other countries have passed for a long time, which, among other things, shows that it is obviously not true that create more difficulties to arrive at an administrative decision, complicated things, increasing the norms, the number of regulations and articles, makes the intervention of corruption more difficult. Dear colleagues, it is the exact opposite: simplicity is synonymous with honesty and fairness, because where there is simplicity, it is difficult for there to be incorrectness. [[Applause]] You don't want to understand it, especially from a certain old-fashioned left. I am thinking of the code of procurement with its 300 articles and the implementing regulation that has as many: well, in 600 articles you can nest the evil. [[Applause]] Not with simplicity. Here we are also meeting this type of solution; it is another step forward, but certainly not the final objective: the procurement code remains what it is, but let's face it frankly, we are still satisfied with the progress that has been made, which is a consequence of the role that Italy, with this Government, is starting to regain again. The Draghi Government has produced first of all the Recovery and Resilience Plan, a first fundamental objective that has given the opportunity to ask Europe for a series of investment aid that translate into about 200 billion euros, which give our country a real opportunity to relaunch its economy after a year of depression and terrible economic crisis. Well, you have to be able to take this opportunity. We all know the historical problems that our country has had, especially in the regions of the South; even when we could activate and spend European funds we have always and historically had enormous difficulties to spend them. This is because we obviously do not have adequate administrative procedures or because there are bureaucrats who have allowed it. And it's not just politics, or maybe it is, for God's sake. One thing is certain, at present we have a very negative budget for spending European funds. It is then clear that, remaining exactly as we were before, we would have failed. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan therefore requires more streamlined, faster, faster and more trusted procedures for policy and administration. This is the truth, this has to be done and this is being done with the second decree simplifications. The government is regaining a standing and authoritativeness that it had lost in Europe and Europe is gaining a position that it obviously did not have before. The growth of sovereign governments and movements today is in difficulty, because Europe is finally giving answers in terms of solidarity with the weaker countries, assuming a series of positions that demonstrate and give the feeling that the current one is a different Europe. The opportunity and opportunity that are given to us are fantastic, we must know how to grasp it and the Decree-Law simplifications, to our examination, offers us the opportunity to implement the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, constituting in fact the implementing instrument of the PNRR. Of course we must test him. It is a party decree-law with 67 initial articles added to by the Chamber of Deputies 54 and today counts 121. Certainly in these 121 articles many things have been done and many more could be done. We must thank the Ministers of Forza Italia - I say this to the Undersecretary Bergamini - for, for example, Minister Brunetta played an extraordinarily important role in the decree-law under consideration, as he is also having in the recruitment decree-law, in the examination of the 1st and 2nd Permanent Commission of the Senate. We must therefore thank them for the work they are doing and for the progress they are making. Therefore, let us confidently say that our liberal cultural approach is aimed at overcoming a certain kind of culture, through our liberal culture: yess must be greater than nos for us. We are in fact saying yes to incentives and saying no to prohibitions. The new approach of environmentalism can only be this: the culture of making projected towards a new modernity. [[Applause]] That is why the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the simplification decree for our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u35	Campari (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, what we are considering is an important measure, almost a watershed, and so initially I can only highlight a small problem, which is no longer just a small problem, because at the procedural level this bill of conversion of the decree-law has also arrived armored here, in the Senate, with very tight times for its approval and the Commissions have, in fact, taken note of what is contained in the measure to be converted. I sincerely hope it doesn't happen again. [[Applause]] Turning to the political merit of the measure, because the technical one has already been extensively developed in the general discussion by my colleagues, in the text we have to describe how to use and manage EUR 240 billion. To do this we had two roads, one of which could be the old method to the Count, made of subsidies and Casalino, of Villa Doria Pamphili and television stories of Saturday evening (the famous decree). Today, however, fortunately, we are going towards a new method, which is that of the League of Government, which focuses on the development of the country and on job creation. [[Applause]] We can and must change step, we need speed of action, we need to put an end to bureaucracy, we need slim and cost-effective work and finally we need clarity in the rules. After so many words we can finally move on to the facts. The Italians, in fact, look at us right now. We come from a past in which our vulnerability has been made clear and we face a future of uncertainty about the quality of life. We now have an opportunity and that is why it is even more important today to succeed in what we do. How many times has politics tried? Will this be the good time? If we succeed, if the whole country succeeds together, then it will mean that we will be able to overcome a period of stagnation that has lasted too long and this because of the bureaucracy, because of a system that is too complex and exposed to endless causes and trials that drag everything for years. We need to change gears, like I said before. The League today is in the government for this, to give a positive working approach, in which things are done, a Government of common sense that has the ability to find solutions and to base itself on job search. That is why we are in the government and want to stay there. We have suffered constant attempts to exclude ourselves from the Executive; there is an obvious axis to the Left, which, among other things, is synonymous with selfishness at the expense of the will of the Italians, because it is quite obvious this shortsighted policy that undermines the unity of the government's action, also annoying President Draghi and creating totally senseless, useless and aberrant divisions at a time of difficulties like this. With these attempts to upset us, like those that have been there, for example with the advice in Fornero and Arcuri, with all these temptations, a doubt comes to us by force: maybe someone wants to manage the money of the PNRR alone, how, where and with who wants it? Someone may regret Conte's PNRR, the one Europe was about to fail. Know, however, that this does not work, because the League is here, determined, as a bulwark for the defense of the Italians. [[Applause]] We are the first party because the right centre is a majority in the country and because we want the money to serve the Italians. We must leave a mark in the present in order to be able to set the future in a profitable way; we must set up a method of doing and doing well; we must abandon waste and improductivity; we must think about what is really useful today, abandon an ideology that is absolutely misleading and sick and base ourselves on concreteness. We come out of a very dark period for society, where we suffered three waves of the pandemic from Covid; in 2020 there were many management errors; it was a black period for the economy, in which we suffered the choices of the second Conte government. Today we have to re-launch GDP, we have to start a new reconstruction, we have an opportunity to set up a new system of work that is efficient and with a profitable method. We have to produce work and quit welfare. The Italians want the facts. It is right therefore to work on the issues that impact on the life of Italians in a positive way and that create well-being; while it is wrong, on the other hand, to waste time on senseless laws and, as I said before, ideological. I don't care, for example, if you put two men together or if you put two women together, I care that people can put together a lunch with dinner, because today out of here it's not like that. [[Applause]] I care that a dad can give his son a gift at Christmas, I care that a mom can look at her baby thinking he has a future; I absolutely don't care that the children are indoctrinated today - at least someone wants to do it - at school with gender theories, because this is not useful to the country. We have therefore included in the measure serious and impacting issues for the State, we have tried to clearly identify who does what, we have given the opportunity to appoint Commissioners to speed up the practices, we have identified priorities, we have provided the means to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, we have worked in favour of companies, we have included simplifications that were real, making possible of procedural accelerations, therefore reducing some bureaucratic impediments; we have worked for the citizens. One example of all is the super building bonus, or a new management of the environment, impact and hydrogeological failure. We're finally doing the right thing, because you've wasted too much time. People have lost confidence in politics; in fact, how can they be wronged when there is a part of the House that treats VAT consignments as if they were, regardless, criminals? I don't forget that someone here called entrepreneurs "takers" and this will be forever your shame, know it. We are not like that, we trust the Italians and we think that we only need to let them work. We believe that there is no need for an oppressive state, but for a state that is at the side of the Italians. [[Applause]] We believe that there is a need for a new pact of trust with the Italians, because if we do not give confidence we cannot expect the Italians to trust Parliament. I shall end, Mr President, from where I started, that is to say by stressing that this is a really important measure, a watershed that has our confidence, because it lacks ideologies and senseless intentions; it is an absolutely just and necessary measure and finally really useful; for this reason the League is there and will vote in favour of trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u38	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been just a year since that July 2020, when Giuseppe Conte succeeded in being central to the extensive negotiation that led to the agreement between the leaders of the old continent on the Next Generation EU. At that time we remember the mistrust that was felt in this House, we remember the titles of ridicule in the main national newspapers. Now there is a transversal effort to try to forget the importance of that passage. Now another thing is said, namely that the PNRR is an unrepeatable opportunity for our country, we use the classic metaphor of the train that passes only once, a train on which the country must absolutely get on. Let's just say that it is true that of those 230 billion available, including the complementary fund, not a single penny must be wasted, but those 230 billion must make Italy a green country, a country that is a model of respect for the achievement of economic neutrality, a model of respect that is due to the ground, to the forest heritage, for which we have never had it, so much so that today in Sardinia we cry. In fact, we have lost the value of what it means to respect the earth. The measure that we are about to convert will therefore serve to define the national regulatory framework in order to facilitate the achievement of the objectives set by the PNRR. This law will therefore govern the productive, economic and social life of the country for the next three to five years and yet the Senate has been unable to do anything to improve its text. Unfortunately, this must be pointed out: colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars did so during the general debate, and I must repeat that too. As for the so-called'support-a' decree, we are talking about measures of crucial importance for the future of Italy, in which the present and future of our children, our businesses and our society are written, and we cannot reduce Parliament to proofreading, because we have heard that we are. I think it really is time to implement in practice this blessed centrality of Parliament that we hear waning one day yes and the other even by everyone. The emergency cannot become the rule and the exception everyday life. The citizens outside are afraid and in order to win it Parliament must regain its centrality. [[Applause]] Political decisions must be as shared as possible if we are to overcome the mental reservations and fears of our fellow citizens. The Movimento 5 Star has a capital of ideas, principles and values that wants to bring dowry to the country and spend. First of all, we must reverse the belief that talking about the environment means putting a brake on growth and economic initiative: this is the first mission we need to pursue. The government must not wait for the 5 Star Movement to intervene and must speak first of all of integral ecology as a new model of development and prosperity, giving practical demonstration. [[Applause]] The energy efficiency and the anti-seismic improvement of private buildings are no longer things for visionaries, utopians and dreamers. Today, as we speak from these scranni, the yards already started with our 110% superbonus are close to 30,000. The yards have been opened for a value pairs to 4 billion euros. All this has been done thanks to the stubborn work of my 5 Star Movimento colleagues, many of whom sit in this House. [[Applause]] However, 4 billion interventions over six months are a target achieved by moving towards reduced gears. The superbonus (forgive me the comparison and the metaphor of the horse) is proceeding to the trot and it is time to let him gallop. In fact, there are several amendments tabled by our political force that are pushing in this direction and we want the cooperation of the Government. If the superbonus runs, it is essential that this can happen through an extension without distinction up to the whole 2023 and the benefits in terms of economic and employment spillovers are huge. We expect a shot from the government on this front. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the decree before us presents many good things and many others that are still not good. The need to spend in the coming years quickly must not cause us to go back to the safety of our territory, environmental protection, control and monitoring of public interventions. Putting resources to the ground in our country quickly and safely is possible, but without losing the compass, which will always be the improvement of the quality of life of our fellow citizens and the health of the planet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u40	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u41	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, during the darkest period of the pandemic, we all said that we would no longer make the same mistakes as before, that going back to normal would not have meant going back and being like before. Unfortunately, however, despite the great opportunity for change that Europe is also given to us with the PNRR - which, as has been said, will also be a train, but an assaulted train, because the 230 billion that it provides gorges too many - not only we will go back, but we will go back thirty years, we have said so, and unfortunately we will fail the missions that we have given ourselves, both that of the ecological transition, and that of the simplification for the improvement of the times. In May Tomaso Montanari wrote in the column "Emergenza cultura" on "Il Fatto Quotidiano" (The Daily Fact) that the simplification of Draghi is equivalent to breaking down the brake of the rules, citing the responsible trade and work of Forza Italia, who had declared that among the victims of Mottarone there would also be the operators of the plant, forced to hunger by absurd rules. So those 14 people wouldn't have been killed by the criminal greed of those who wanted to increase profits, no, they would have killed the rules. There is no longer an ideology that supports us and this is serious. We only have a triumphant ideology, the one that demonizes the rules. Remove the brake - says Montanari - from the cable cars to the economies, here is the solution. The Draghi government had also proposed the maximum reduction and free subcontracting, then restrained by the unions, despite the hundreds of deaths even during the lockdown in the workplace. Faced with the dominant ideologies it is difficult to resist, because the only rule that must be removed is always that of co-responsibility; simplify and cut: this flag must have free hands. Ministeries, special procedures, police stations, silence-absence are therefore built to circumvent the rules. From Berlusconi to Renzi's unlocking Italy we still go...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u42	I invite you to conclude, Senator Nugnes. I would like to avoid having to call my fellow Members one by one. Let us finish our work. [[Comments]] No, it is not a word that is spoken while a colleague is speaking from any group. [[Comments]] No, you can't say that, Senator. Don't force me to call you back verbally. Please, Senator Nugnes, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u43	Silence-consent will directly certify it by the private. This constitutional reform, quote-based environmentalist, proposed by the Government, triggers drilling, resurrects incinerators with the CIP6, nuclear and opens the doors to the free CSS and the bridge over the Strait. This is the future that awaits us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u45	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u46	ANGRISANI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, the Alternative will vote against this umpteenth confidence in the Government and against yet another authoritarian crushing of parliamentary prerogatives. Parliament's role is now completely out of date: it uses the practice of examining the decree-laws when they are converted into a single Chamber, with the other called only to ratify. We are voting, as usual, yet another omnibus decree, despite the recent references also of the Quirinale. We expected a different reaction on this way of proceeding, especially on the part of our former colleagues, who in the last parliamentary term would have made barricades, both against the content of a similar decree and above all against the continuous and practically obvious imposition of the issue of trust. Think of it as seven votes of confidence in less than five months with the Draghi government. The decree simplifications is a measure then to say the least omnibus: it contains heterogeneous and variegated norms, which during the iter to the House has been literally infarcito of the most extravagant contents. The House then happened everything: the work continually postponed at night, so as not to allow to understand what really happened. Here in the Senate it was humiliating and shameful: the text was landed two days after the final deadline. As for the content, unfortunately, there is very little to say: it gives a well-suited football to the code of contracts, favouring collusive mechanisms and clientele. The management of the PNRR is mortgaged by setting up an ad hoc steering booth, creating a useless and costly bureaucratic monster. The environmental code is disemboweled with new rules on EIA and VAS, without taking into account the protection of the territory. Then there is the increase of direct trusts and the return to the integrated contract: therefore less control and more ease in capturing the rules. It is a destructive vision of the country, where the authoritarianism of choices prevails and we are against this vision, against lobbying, against the logic of "free all" without democratic debate. Our colleagues in the House of Alternatives tried to change these rules and failed. The Senate was not really allowed, but the problem is represented by those who today vote in favour of this measure and, consequently, of this Government: we would have expected it from everyone, except who three years ago spoke of doing something absolutely different from the traditional parties, so the principles were the environment and transparency, but of these principles there is nothing left. I shall conclude by saying that there is no alternative to this Government and this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u48	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u49	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not trust this Government and vote against this measure. To justify my vote against I will only make a small list of critical issues relating to the measure that has 120 articles: a decree-law that further reduces the participation of the public in the procedures for the realization of the works of the PNIEC and the PNRR. We will still shut our mouths to the citizens and the public administrations that will do so will force the public to speak before the court. This completely eliminates the criteria for identifying suitable areas for the construction of energy plants. The works are known only for broad lines, but there are no more constraints, because they were eliminated and there were in the Decree-Law simplifications last year. Among the many amendments I have tabled is precisely that to revise and re-introduce the criteria for the protection of natural ecosystems and our cultural heritage. Particularly invasive substitute powers and preferential lanes are introduced for the EIA and for the impact assessment on the cultural part: a field invasion on the competence of the institutions. The discipline on posidonia is still under way, an all-Italian paradox: 400 million are committed in the PNRR to protect marine ecosystems, but then we go to destroy the posidonia, therefore the coast, which produces the fish of Italian value. But where do we want to go? The right hand doesn't know what the left hand does. In Cilento I denounced with a statement the discrepancy that is leading to the wrong management of this issue, and I will also do so before the European Court. The limit has been raised to 20 megawatts, without environmental impact assessment, for agro-photovoltaic plants on the land. Do we want to talk about hydrogeological failure? I apologise to the populations for the cementification and the wild management of our territory. I no longer have time, so I want to refer to the technical in-depth interventions that colleagues Nugnes, Moronese and L'Abbate carried out yesterday. I would ask my fellow Members to vote against. We still have a chance to do so. Please, let us put our competence and love at the service of the citizens, not at the lobby. Please, let us vote against and ask my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u50	Colleagues, both the Secretary Senators and other colleagues tell me that we tend to make assemblies in this House. I therefore ask you to pay attention to this natural propensity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u51	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2332, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 77, 31 May 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. As mentioned earlier, I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the House. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Masini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Masini. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, is appealing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2332, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law 31 May 2021, n. 77, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 247 Senators voting 246 Majority 124 Favorable 213 Contrari 33]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 77.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u54	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am simply speaking to bring to the attention of this House once again the very serious situation that has arisen in Sardinia with the plague of fires. Unfortunately, Sardinia is not new to serious episodes and, above all, to pay a tribute in terms of human lives, as has happened in the past. This time fortunately there were no casualties among the population, but now it is really on its knees. The images you've seen are of unheard of gravity. The fire this time has lapped the inhabited centers. Many homes have been destroyed, but, above all, many farms have been destroyed and the owners have nothing to do with living today. When things happen, the situation is very serious. You have seen the dead animals, even the wild ones, burned or asphyxiated by smoke. The situation, among other things, is not yet defined, because some outbreaks occasionally regain strength and one cannot fail to observe that such events always happen when there are particularly windy days, which says a lot about the fact that they are obviously arson: it has been established that at least two out of three are the result of the human hand. I thank all of you who made me feel your solidarity in the immediacy: it was something that brought me great pleasure, as I made it clear. Now, however, we need concrete action, urgent action once again. It is necessary to allow those who have been left with nothing, those who have lost a working life to start again, get back on track and resume a normal life, which will be extremely difficult, if it is true that, only for the replantation of the plants that have been lost and burned, it will take at least twenty years. You need to move. It is necessary that the Government makes us hear, beyond the words that - I repeat - were immediately brought to the attention of us Sardinians, that it intends to put in place concrete actions that allow us to resume our lives, with the usual desire to work and the usual solidarity that we always show towards anyone. I hope that the life of the Sardinians, affected by this yet another very serious fact, will resume in an appropriate manner. Therefore, the hope is that the Government will intervene immediately, even with provisional measures, and then we will see how to act, possibly including further measures later, also in the next budget law. [[Applause.]] 11:55 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u57	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I too want to take advantage of this opportunity to recover before our eyes the devastating images of the flames that devour acres of Mediterranean maquis in Sardinia and dangerously threaten some inhabited areas. But I also want to recover - alas - the images of my Salento, which for months has been raped by phenomena that invest hectares and hectares of historical pine forest, in the largest tourist area of Otranto, gone to smoke in recent days. Similarly, for months hundreds of centuries-old olive trees, already dried up by xylella, have become the terrible fuel for fires facilitated also by the afa, which is a consequence of climate change. With the PNRR we have committed ourselves, as Parliament everything, and we have assumed the responsibility of building a better country system to be left to our children, investing in particular on the environmental transition and therefore also on the green. That is why I wanted to make this intervention: certainly to express closeness to those who have been victims of such incidents - many families have found themselves fighting with these events - and solidarity with the operators who have allowed us to limit the damage. However, I also intervened to make a proposal here, which is to try to really safeguard the pine forests, certainly through preventive interventions, but also imagining - for example - in the pine forests with more than seventy years of life, as well as in the forests of oaks and olive trees, for every dry tree victims of fires, to engage with a new green and young tree. We have this responsibility and I believe that the whole of Parliament can commit itself to expressing and putting into practice a relevant proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u60	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, one of the most unspoilt areas on the island of Sardinia, a language of territory that starts from the slopes of Montiferru, marked by dense forests, and reaches the sea of Planargia, whose roads are dotted with vineyards and olive groves, has lived its most dramatic days of recent decades. Yet, a few days from the great fear, he is already standing to work to react to an environmental and landscape devastation, which is already economical. Sardinia has brought out its most beautiful face, the "sa paradura," the help of solidarity, with trucks and tractors that fly from the rest of the island to transport feed and forage destined to the shepherds of the countries of Montiferru, who are giving the first and concrete help. This great work serves above all to testify to the indomitable spirit of those populations and local administrators, in addition to the spirit of solidarity and brotherhood that distinguishes the Sardinians in times of great difficulty, but of course it is not enough. The words of proximity, institutional visits and fundraising are in turn important, but the state at a time like this, already burdened by the health, social and economic emergency that accompanies the weaker territories of the country now for half a century, must give immediate answers. It must do so for today from the point of view of economic assistance to the many who have lost everything, and for tomorrow, starting a confrontation with the Region aimed at addressing in a structural way and resolving the question of the government of the territory. We need a chapter dedicated to these restaurants in punctual coordination with the Region of Sardinia and the system of local authorities. Tens and dozens of companies, already very fragile in themselves, risk being permanently swept away in the absence of more than immediate intervention. The depopulation of the inland areas goes hand in hand with the progressive abandonment of the countryside. This is the first reason for the lack of maintenance of the woods and pastures, which favour the enormous fires and devastations that we all have a chance to see. The model of prevention, rather than that of disaster relief, has entered into crisis and must be strongly questioned. We have to reverse the assumption that both public expenditure, which we now call unproductive because it does not produce a direct income, and to be demonized. The government of the territory and its maintenance produce the most precious good: the maintenance of a local ecosystem in which families, businesses and occasional visitors can live in harmony with the conditions of safety and sustainability. As for the relief, the head of the Civil Protection has complimented the Region of Sardinia for its ability to react and mobilize, but it cannot be denied that there is a problem of resources for the implementation of the aerial fire fleet, for the continuous training and the enlistment of the personnel to the ground. Similarly, it is no longer possible to schedule investments... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u63	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, I rise to recall the immense tragedy experienced in recent days by the Region of Sardinia in the territory before the Nurse and then Oristano. I obviously join the words of the Sardinian Senators Floris and Cucca. I remember the figures: 50 kilometers of burned land, 1,500 displaced persons, 7,500 people among Armed Forces, Fire Departments, but above all the Forestry Corps and the volunteers I must thank for the work done and for saving human lives. Unfortunately, the agropastoral world is on the ground and we must intervene immediately. The Sardinia Region has already asked for the state of calamity, but obviously it is not enough: now an immediate intervention of the Government is needed to compensate the private - many are the houses burned - but also the entrepreneurs, and to restore the burned woods. Let's remember we lost a secular olive tree. We must invest more on prevention, we must govern the territory, we must control it and we must cure it, but above all we must also restore the fire detection system that ceased a few years ago. With this wish I embrace the whole Sardinian community affected and I repeat the request for an immediate intervention by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u66	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech is in the wake of those who have already spoken on this subject. We want to express extreme solidarity and attention to the Sardinian people and to those who have come to the rescue to put an end to the burnings that have devastated the beautiful Sardinian land. We are concerned about the situation and I find it correct what Senator Cucca said: the conjunction too often leads us to see the hand of man behind these conditions. I therefore appeal to the Government to intervene on the regulatory framework so that, once again, stricter measures are taken against those who become actors of incendiary acts that then devastate the territory. I also express gratitude for the rescuers, the firemen and those who have been active in this circumstance. There is certainly willingness and will on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the League for any initiative that the Government will propose to go to the rescue, even economic, of the devastated land and allow Sardinia to get back on its feet after the devastating fires. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u67	I myself would have intervened for the Brothers of Italy, if I were not on the presidency. Personally, I agree with all the concordant statements that we have just heard. I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.05 p.m. and resumed at 16.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u68	Colleagues, the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Parrini, asked to speak in order to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a on draft law No 2272.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u69	Mr President, the work we have done these days has been very complex. There are many amendments that have been examined and adopted. We are finishing our work; we can be ready for the incardination at 6 p.m., so I would like another hour or so to conclude the examination of the measure in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u72	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would also like to speak in relation to what the President of the 1st Commission has just said. As I believe other colleagues, I received a call from Minister D'Incà who announced to me the Government's intention - I believe I do not reveal a secret - to put the question of trust in this decree-law as well. I do not speak to stigmatize the umpteenth humiliation of Parliament - we will talk about it on another occasion - but I ask you, President, to understand how we want to proceed. Yesterday we had a long discussion at the Conference of the Leaders; we set times and times; we are an opposition that calls at least to be informed - I do not say that I can decide or even co-decide - of the intentions of the majority and the Government with respect to the approval of this measure. Yesterday, in the group leaders it was decided that this afternoon the general debate would begin, with the possible approval tomorrow morning according to the normal process of examining and voting on the amendments, on which we had a completely cooperative attitude. Now, we discount the quarreliness within the majority (which is very obvious), the delays of the majority and the obstructionism that the majority do to themselves, but we do not want to be victims of it. We ask the government or someone in the majority to explain to us what understanding is compared to today, tomorrow and Friday. We all have our commitments, we have press conferences, meetings and commitments on the ground, also linked to the date of the elections, which I hope the government wants to officialize. So, Mr President, we are asking through you to the representative of the Government, who is not here - indeed, the Minister has arrived - what are the times, so that we can simply organize ourselves. It's a trivially organizational matter, but it's important to us. On political merit we will have other opportunities to confront each other. So either the Minister explains it to us, but in a detailed and reliable way, or it is better to convene a Conference of the Leaders and decide how we want to proceed. This is to protect everyone, but also the only minority and the only opposition in Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u73	Thank you, Senator Ciriani. We listened to Senator Parrini's request to begin the incardination at 6 p.m. and so I intend to proceed. Afterwards there will be the general discussion and then, on the basis of what may decide to request the Government, a Conference of the Leaders may be convened. The sitting shall be suspended until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.35 a.m. and resumed at 18.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u74	He asked the President of the 2nd Commission, Senator Ostellari, to speak in order to report on the work of the first and second meetings of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u75	Mr President, the sitting is still going on. We need another hour. I'd ask her to see us again at 7:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u76	Senator Ostellari, you know that the session ends at 8:00 p.m. from the calendar. Even out of respect for the other senators, do you assure me that at 7:00 p.m. we will be able to return to the Chamber? OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are doing everything we can to make this possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following draft law has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 82 of 14 June 2021 on urgent provisions on cybersecurity, definition of the national cybersecurity architecture and establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency" (2336).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u78	I call Mr Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u79	Mr President, I am sorry to have to inform you that we have not been able to complete the work of examining the recruitment decree. There was an unexpected request from a Group to hold a political meeting and, as is customary, this request was accepted by the Presidents. However, this has changed our agenda and, at this point, I do not think that we will be able to conclude before a couple of hours, so I believe that incardination should be postponed until tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u80	Thank you, Senator Parrini. I therefore refer the discussion of draft law No 2272 to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u83	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, on 14 July ISPRA presented the soil consumption report for 2021. It was the day when Europe was scourged by intense rains that were catastrophic precisely because of soil consumption. I then talk about it today, while disastrous flashfloods are hitting the Valtellina and the Comasco, Chiavenna, Blevio, Cernobbio with its streets transformed into furious streams. It says that land use, land degradation and the loss of ecosystem functions continue at an unsustainable pace and, in 2020, despite lockdown, 57 square kilometers of agricultural and natural areas have been replaced by new construction sites, buildings and infrastructure, more than 15 hectares per day, one football field per hour, two square meters per second. The consequences are also economic, and the hidden costs that Italy could be forced to bear due to the loss of ecosystem services due to land consumption between 2012 and 2013 are between 81 and 99 billion euros, in practice half of the recovery fund. Not even hydraulic and seismic risks hinder cementification. In areas with high hydraulic hazard, it exceeds 6 percent and 7 percent in areas with high seismic hazard. The data highlight critical urban and periurban levels: 2,300 hectares consumed inside the cities and in the productive areas. As a result, cities are getting warmer and with summer temperatures higher from two to six degrees Celsius than in the surrounding areas. It is disconcerting the growth of artificial surfaces, even in the presence of stabilization or decrease of residents. The land consumed per capita, therefore, increases, from 357 to 359 square meters per inhabitant. It was 160 in the '50s. In conclusion, soil consumption means loss of biodiversity, decline of the landscape, but also increase of waterproof surface, so the rainwaters take to flow even impetuously exundating. From CNR-IRPI data in 2019 there were 23 floods, 12 deaths, 19 wounded and 3,000 evacuated. Meanwhile, in the Senate we recite de profundis to the bill for the contrast to soil consumption. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u86	ANGRISANI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, the Municipalities of Castel San Giorgio, Nocera Inferiore, Nocera Superiore and Roccapiemonte, in the Province of Salerno, have agreed to carry out social and social health services in a coordinated manner, providing for the delegation of functions by the subscribed bodies in favour of the Municipality of Nocera Inferiore. The four municipalities, however, have decided to continue with precarious recruitments with a new ban, even if there are conditions to stabilize operators, who from 9 December 2021 will have met the requirements for the stabilization of the Madia law and who have already been working on the Area Plan for years. Today, in the light of the current legislation on overcoming the precariousness in public administrations, recruiting staff with future contracts in social services is at least inappropriate. Social services, in fact, are considered essential services, in order to provide them with permanent staff. The European Court of Justice has repeatedly sanctioned Italy for the abuse of continuous recourse to precariousness. The stabilisation procedures for these operators in the municipalities indicated must therefore be initiated as soon as possible, giving a concrete response to both the staff in service and the citizens, in order to ensure the continuity of the services provided, especially during this period of epidemiological emergency. They are operators who for a very long time, with precarious contracts (some over seventeen years) deal with particularly delicate services: they are professional educators, social workers, administrative, sociologists and psychologists, who daily assist the weakest sections of our territory. The services to the person, in fact, are based primarily on the construction of a stable relationship with particularly fragile subjects who have a complex personal history. Therefore, it cannot be periodically restarted with different operators. The large part of the operators of the Area Plan was recruited following a selective procedure on 10 December 2018 and lasted the three years necessary on 9 December 2021. All of them have, in recent years - and continue to do so - ensured continuous action to combat poverty and to take care of special needs. Therefore, it is an ethical and moral duty for the administrations involved to recruit in the manner indicated by law. The City Council of Nocera Inferiore at the end of June expressed its support for the stabilisation of staff and the possibility of managing the Area Plan with a consortium company, while the mayor of Nocera Superiore did not agree very much. In this continuous ping pong of declarations and refund of responsibility also the unions have repeatedly requested a meeting, but they have never been summoned and are forced to declare the state of agitation to the prefecture and the Municipality of Nocera Inferiore has confirmed a further biennial ban. Therefore, there is a real risk that we will proceed in this direction, not taking care to ensure the continuity of services. The trade unions have proclaimed the strike of social services for tomorrow, July 29, in the hope of having a fruitful confrontation, so that we arrive at a solution for the workers involved, but also for the citizens who are assisted daily. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u89	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, in recent weeks I have spoken in this House to denounce the many actions against the environment that are taking place in Sicily: from the waste emergency, which the Musumeci government intends to solve by burning them, to the rain of requests for authorization for large photovoltaic plants that are likely to compromise the Sicilian landscape and agro-food production; again, the desire to create an incinerator for sewage sludge near Enna, in a quality agricultural area, and the fires that are devastating the island, also because of the inertia of the regional administration. Today I am here to point out an illustrious rule recently hesitated by the Sicilian Regional Assembly: an anachronistic sanatoria that condones the abusive buildings built in areas of valuable landscape and naturalistic, subject to constraint, moreover approved with a single vote of rejection. In this way a tombstone will be placed on the protection of the island ecosystem, trampling the memory of men like Piersanti Mattarella and Bino Li Calsi, who fought to protect it, introducing in 1978 the building index on agricultural soils. At least, with an unexpected leap of pride, the Sicilian legislator, during the same sitting, rejected a shameful additional amendment to the building bill which intended to heal buildings built until 1983 within 150 meters of the coast. A few days ago, my colleague Ruggiero Fourthly, he mentioned the hundreds of victims and missing people caused by heavy rains in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. catastrophic scenarios such as these must lead us to think and make appropriate choices. A country as strongly anthropized as ours has known long and generalized phases of building abuse, with unlawful acts carried out also by public bodies that have allowed the coverage of water courses, the construction of buildings in areas subject to hydrogeological risk or with landscape and archaeological constraints. The condon approved in Sicily would go in that direction, exposing the population to serious risks and the territory to damage caused by uncontrolled building, prelude to yet another environmental disaster announced. All this must end and Sicily cannot escape this imperative. The country that we are trying to draw at the end of the health emergency and in line with the European directives must set itself the objective of ecological and energy transition, including actions to protect the environment and the ecosystem. I hope that the alarm cry already launched by many will help to block the Sicilian sanatoria even in the Council of Ministers, putting an end to the construction season. The time we live in and the future we intend to build for our children dictates this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u92	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, these days Sardinia is experiencing a tragedy of enormous proportions. Since 23 July, the fires have devastated the area of Oristano and Ogliastra. For us Sardinians, the plain of Oristano and the mountains of Ogliastra represented agriculture, breeding, economic support and food for the whole island. Over 20,000 hectares of land, woods, olive groves and cultivated fields are reduced to ashes; farms have been destroyed and have remained without water and electricity. Many animals have been killed. Warehouses and barns with forage stocks and other facilities and means have been burned. Many houses have been damaged. The activities of the ten teams engaged are made particularly difficult by the strong sirocco wind, which fueled the fires, and which has changed several times threatening the communities of Marghine and Planargia, as well as the state road 131 Carlo Felice. Eight Canadairs were engaged, plus four more from nearby France and Greece, and thirteen helicopters, in an unceasing effort to put out the fire and save the territory. The flames started in Bonarcado and Santu Lussurgiu, in the same area where twenty-seven years ago a fire broke out in Montiferru. A huge reforestation and reclamation work was lost, activated after that fire. Also in Ogliastra the damages are important, despite the almost immediate intervention of the Civil Protection. I am close to the deputy mayor of Arzana, engaged also with Civil Protection, day and night, to save everything that has been possible and to protect its territory. But he himself asserts that the only available helicopter, which was in nearby Lanusei, was engaged at the time of the fire in Oristano to help those territories. In Ogliastra it is not enough a garrison, but it would be useful a Canadair to keep at the airport of Tortolì in preventive measure, so that for necessity the interventions can be timely. It is necessary that the regional machinery strengthens men and means, aircraft and land, and provides continuous training for staff, men and women, young performers useful for hard but delicate work at the same time. The environment must be defended by means of advanced technology, by trained personnel hired indefinitely and always present to guard our beautiful territory. I express my solidarity and closeness to the affected populations and support for the regions and the government to commit themselves as soon as possible to those who have lost everything. It is recent news that the Minister of Economy and Finance Daniele Franco, in close contact with Civil Protection, has undertaken to prepare all the necessary interventions to the affected areas with any rules and related financial cover. Interlocutions are ongoing with the Region of Sardinia to evaluate the adoption of emergency restoration measures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u95	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, this is my last appeal to Turin's candidacy for the 2025 Universiade, after which I just have to resign as Senator of the Republic. I don't have a choice. Only a couple of months ago, in May 2021, Turin and, therefore, Italy received a certificate of trust from world sport. In the Aula Magna of the University of Piedmont the International Federation of University Sports (FISU), the highest international body, confirmed the news that Turin, eighteen years after the last time, would host the Universiadi 2025. A result brought home even after the approval by the Senate of a series of motions by all the political forces that took into account the requests of all the Groups and after the words of support of the Undersecretary Valentina Vezzali who, participating in the ceremony of assignment of the games, emphasized the importance of the event for our country, for the Italian sport and for the revival at the international level of the city of Turin. I wonder then what could happen to move from what seemed to be a certain goal to a hypothesis that, if not confirmed in a few days, risks becoming not only a missed opportunity, but also a bad figure towards the FISU and the rest of the world. You can not go beyond 31 July to validate the choice of the Piedmontese capital and the financing necessary to realize the upcoming Universiadi. There is also a time within which we must safeguard our country from being perceived as unreliable, indecisive and unbelievable. That time is now. It would be a label that would frustrate all the efforts, professionalism and skills put in place in recent months, while at the same time extinguishing the enthusiasm of those who have believed in it to date. I therefore appeal to the seriousness and concreteness of the President of the Draghi Council to avoid betraying the expectations of so many and to do everything possible to save Italy from an international reputation that certainly does not reflect our history, our character and our vision of the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-352.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 29 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.18.
