ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, as the Commission's work on draft law No 2167 is on the agenda at the conclusion stage, I briefly suspend the sitting until 9.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.50 a.m.) Colleagues, the work is still being completed in the Commission. I therefore suspend the sitting again until 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.50 a.m. and resumed at 10.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2167. The rapporteur, Senator Bressa, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u5	Mr President, Decree-Law No 44 of 1 April 2021 provides for measures to contain the outbreak from Covid-19: it provides for educational and educational activities; with regard to the extraordinary vaccination campaign, it exempts vaccine administrators against the Covid-19 who have complied with the indications concerning its administration from criminal liability for manslaughter or personal injury, where such events occur as a result of vaccination; it regulates an obligation to vaccination against the Covid-19 for health and social-health personnel; it regulates the manifestation of consent to the vaccine against the Covid-19 for persons who are in natural incapacity; it provides for an urgent provision for the exercise of judicial activity, including with regard to the accounting process in pandemic emergency time; it authorises the National Council of the professional order of journalists to postpone the election of the territorial and national bodies of the order of journalists by one hundred and eighty days. Moreover, this measure extends the period within which the meetings required to approve the 2020 balance sheets for non-profit organisations of social utility (NLUS); extends the reporting period of the regional health service; introduces simplification measures for the conduct of the procedures of competitions for access to public employment, to be banned or already banned; such specific provision concerning the staff of the penitentiary administration; differs the period of validity of the graduations to flow of the staff of the Ministry of Justice; carries urgent measures for the carrying out of the written tests of the competition by ordinary magistrate; provides for the entry into force, on 1 April 2021, the same day of publication in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u6	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Ciampollo to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u7	Mr President, the rules contained in Decree-Law No 44 postulate that comprehensive preventive sources of information on the actual existence of the epidemiological emergency be issued by the Government to each senator, capable of putting it in a position to demonstrate its will adequately at the time of the vote on each of the articles. In the absence of information on the real state of the epidemiological situation and its impact on the national health system, the will of the senators unfolds without any effective knowledge of the cause. The omission of information with regard to the alleged medical-scientific foundations from the entire legislative provision is to be assessed arbitrary behaviour, which has not resulted in a mere regulatory violation, but which has decisively and conclusively affected the full capacity and possibility of representation of all senators. The right to assess on the substance the content of the basis of the presupposition of the rules contained in the decree-law must be guaranteed. The whole content of the measure conflicts with Article 1 of the Constitution, in synergy with Article 67 of the Constitution, as the lack of information on the health or scientific premises of the Constitution is resolved in the emptying of the concrete representation of the nation, provided for by each senator and, consequently, of the possible exercise of popular sovereignty. In the matter of hourly constraints, the last forecast of prohibition of movement from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. the following morning was contained in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers in force in the matter of Covid expired on 6 April 2021, but there is no precept assisted by sanction in the text of the article, which shows only a series of referrals characterized by absolute indeterminateness, such as the one to the measure adopted on 2 March 2021. By definition, a "provision" may also be a judgment, circular or administrative act, all issued on 2 March 2021. This postponement runs counter to the essential principle of legal certainty, especially if a series of sanctioning consequences are to be imposed on the citizen through the postponement. It is clear from the report to the Decree-Law that this provision would actually be the DPCM of 2 March 2021, an act whose nature does not allow to impose any restrictions on fundamental freedoms, as it has repeatedly had occasion to clarify the jurisprudence in almost unanimous way. Of the precepts contained in it it would have had to proceed to the integral transcription in the text of law, in order to be able to impose them, making them perfectly recognizable and intelligible to the citizen. It is also considered that the referral to a rule no longer in force (the DPCM expired on 6 April 2021) is not capable of having any effect. Consequently, there is inconstitutionality due to excessive indeterminateness of the norm, in violation of article 25, paragraph 2 of the Constitution, containing reference to a not known, nor specified provision, identified only in the conversion into a DPCM by now unproductive of effects. The Italian Government's proposal to introduce the vaccination obligation for health workers runs counter to Resolution 2361 of 2021 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as recently confirmed by the Secretary-General. This resolution, adopted by a large majority of the representatives of the Contracting States, provides: in point 7.3.1, to ensure that citizens are informed that vaccination is not compulsory and that no one can be politically and socially pressured to be vaccinated, if he does not wish to do so alone; in point 7.3.2, to ensure that no one is discriminated against for not being vaccinated because of possible health risks or for not wanting to be vaccinated. In addition, the European Commission's proposal to introduce a certificate to bind Member States to the recognition of a certification certifying that the vaccine has been administered for the prevention of possible symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection expressly excludes that such certification can be used for discriminatory purposes, see recital 26, according to which it is necessary to prevent discrimination against persons who are not vaccinated, for example for medical reasons, because they are not part of the target group for which the vaccine is currently recommended, or because they have not yet had the opportunity or have chosen not to do so. In the context of the supranational regulatory framework highlighted, therefore, a contracting State is not allowed to adopt a legislative act providing for harmful consequences for healthcare professionals who refuse vaccination. This refusal is even more legitimate if it is considered that all vaccines currently available in the territory of the European Union have been approved by the conditional authorisation method (Article 14 (7) of Regulation (EU) No 726 of 2004), which provides for a derogation from the common prudential standards with regard to trials, the terms of which, for some of the products currently available, expire even in 2023. Article 4 presents profiles of constitutional criticality for non-compliance with the aforementioned Resolution 2361 of 2021 and the principles of non-discrimination contained therein, which have guided the European Commission in drawing up the text of the proposal on the green certificate for its forthcoming adoption, in order to avoid the possibility of conflict with Article 10, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, in two respects. The first aspect is that in no way can it be possible to introduce into the Italian legal order the vaccination obligation with regard to the virus Sars-Cov 2 because the law complies with the rules of international law generally recognized. These include the Treaty establishing the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights, of which Resolution 2361/21 is a secondary law. The same applies to the Treaties governing the functioning of the European Union and whose secondary legislation on the subject being approved also seems to exclude, in the most categorical way, any possible possibility of mandatoryity. The second aspect, categorically excluded any vaccination obligation and any legislative text whose purpose was to introduce it also indirectly, concerns the possibility that the employer - to the sole protection of the worker and never for sanctioning reasons - inhibits health care that refuses to administer the vaccine contact with patients infected by the virus assigning it to other tasks. The shift to different tasks stems from the need to protect the worker. This must in no way be prejudiced, as is clearly the case with the reduction in wages. To justify such an approach means to admit that the move does not want to protect the worker, but is based on punitive reasons, based on discrimination against health care who decides not to vaccinate. Resolution 2361/21, paragraph 7.3.2, ensures that no one is discriminated against for not making the vaccine. At the moment when, in accordance with the legitimate right of the employer to employ the worker to another job, the health care provider is reduced or cancelled due to the refusal to administer, we are faced with a genuine discrimination prohibited by secondary law of a Treaty to which Italy has acceded and which, pursuant to Article 10 (1) of the Constitution is obliged to comply. Decree-Law No 44 of 2021 results in non-compliance with Article 10 (1) of the Constitution where it provides for the reduction or zeroing of remuneration due to the refusal to receive vaccination for the purposes of conflict with paragraph 7.3.2 of Council of Europe Resolution 2361/21. For these reasons it is requested not to proceed to the examination of the bill n. 2167, of conversion of Decree-Law n. 44 of 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u8	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a discussion will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling in which one representative per group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u11	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the many incomprehensible things of this pandemic emergency and the legislative moments that have accompanied it and that we have lived in the parliamentary classrooms, and in particular in the Senate, this preliminary ruling is included, which intervenes in the debate at a time when the House is at least careless, or probably prevented, or simply hasty. Colleagues, in fact, the reference to our examination is written very well, it is widely argued and detailed. It can be shared or not. We largely share this view, but it cannot be debilitated by a parliamentary act of obstruction because the elements contained in this preliminary ruling are all largely circumstantial. [[Brusio.]] President, it's hard to talk. I'm sorry if I change my mask. It is difficult to speak because of the buzz and the mask and the danger is that you continue to increase the volume, going into debt of oxygen. Sorry to interrupt. In fact, this reference refers to two main questions. First of all, my fellow senators have not been able to know in depth the content of the act and therefore to be able to express their opinion freely and in an informed manner, since the process of the Commission and the Assembly of this act - as unfortunately often happens for these categories of acts, but also for all the other acts that we have seen passing through the Senate of the Republic - is a very detailed fact. Moreover, the question referred for a preliminary ruling refers to an absolutely incontrovertible legal consideration: the reference to a rule no longer in force, such as the DCCM which expired on 6 April, prevents it from having any effect. This is an absolutely incontrovertible consideration. The element that has most caught our attention is that, in reality, since a vaccination obligation is not prescriptible and is therefore not normative, also in virtue of all a legislative and constitutional internal system and of all the apparatus of descending democracy, which comes from the European treaties that Italy has supported and undersigned, the provision that defines the need to entrust to other task or, if this is impossible, to entrust the subject, therefore the health worker, to the state of suspension of the work and, therefore, to the expectation without total pay, betrays, in an absolutely questionable way, even in the light of future endless administrative and judicial recourse, a punitive will towards health care. On the contrary, the only reason to suspend the operator from the duties in contact with patients Covid-19 should be, precisely, the fact of protecting him, that is to protect him and the whole world around him - his colleagues, family members, the hospital and the health structure - from the possibility that, since he has not been vaccinated and entering into contact with patients Covid-19, to him, to health care, the infection will be transmitted and therefore, in turn, he becomes able to transmit it. The fact of proceeding with a wage punishment betrays the fact that, in reality, this is not a measure of health protection, but is a measure of compulsion to the vaccination obligation. Obviously, on the part of Brothers of Italy this is not acceptable, so much so that, ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission we have worked hard and we have also argued that the amendment of our colleagues in the League Group should be approved. We voted in favour of that amendment, arguing perfectly well on this point. The majority, of course, in a hurry to proceed without understanding, exposes this legislative measure and the State to a whole series of appeals: we will talk about it again, colleagues, but they will be absolutely certain. Therefore, by virtue of all that I have put forward, not sharing, however, certain parts of the question referred for a preliminary ruling and also providing for the small and modest result that will be obtained, but congratulating the extensor for the prudentness of the arguments put forward, I declare the abstention vote by my Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u14	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of the question before us. I shall vote in favour because I am opposed to any kind of vaccination obligation, even surreptitious, and in particular to this. I find it unfair that health care workers who do not want to vaccinate should be suspended from work. In my opinion, other tasks should be found and, however, it is not possible to suspend pay completely. I am also convinced, more generally, that democracy in Italy is too weak at this time. For example, I believe that changing the parameters for assessing the emergency is a symptom of the fact that this state of emergency is unfortunately useful to many people. In particular, to bring back the critical employment threshold for intensive therapies from 30 to 20 percent at a time when the employment of beds in those departments is weakening (today we are at 22 percent, which means that the free beds in intensive care are equal to 78 percent) is meant to mean the will to maintain a surveillance threshold too high. People's civil rights and the possibility of leaving after 10 p.m. are at stake. It is incomprehensible that the removal of this limit should continue to be postponed, given that the situation is very different from that of the past few months and could not fail to be. In fact, last year's experience has taught us that in spring and summer this virus, like all those that produce respiratory infections, fade away with the warm season. This was therefore conceivable, yet we are late both in moving the curfew beyond 22 hours, and in the restart of many economic activities, which are good for health, such as indoor sports (I think of swimming pools and gyms that were to be reopened already in May and whose opening instead continues to be postponed). In my opinion, it is necessary for each Member to take nothing for granted in this situation and to pay attention to the data that are being proposed to us, evaluating them with his own head. On the contrary, I see that many of you are going back to what the Government says without any critical spirit, even when the personal freedoms of citizens are at stake. This is absolutely not good and is really very worrying. I invite everyone to reflect, read and take nothing for granted. This proposal for a preliminary ruling is very well written; you are snubbing it and doing it very badly. The consequences in the country begin to see themselves: people are increasingly depressed and minors are beginning to have big problems; there is a hood of omerta and no one feels more free to say things that go against what information and mainstream now consider an absolute truth. Consider all of you and try to exercise the mandate for which you are here, namely to guarantee first and foremost democracy and citizens' freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u15	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senators Ciampollo and Martelli for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments.]] I'm sorry, but it's late. Let's put it to the record that Senator Dal Mas would vote against. He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u16	Mr President, I fear and believe that, even in the case of this umpteenth decree-law, the Government and the majority have lost an important opportunity to give Italy and the Italians a signal of return of elementary freedom of movement and enterprise, obviously in complete safety, so that Italians can gradually return to a normal life, to their normal activities, whether it is work, leisure or sports activities. Unfortunately, this has not happened. The Fratelli d'Italia Group has tabled several amendments, as well as authoritative representatives of the majority... [[Brusio.]] I'm sorry if I'm bothering my colleagues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise if the only opposition that speaks in this House is dreading you, but I think it might be good for you to listen, because one day you too could be in this same condition. [[Applause]] Democracy cannot only apply when you are in opposition and it must be suspended when we are in opposition. Dear President, I would ask you to stop the call and to invite colleagues to a minimum I do not say that I am listening - for pity's sake - but at least of silence, of respect for those who expose their ideas, even if you obviously do not like them and they bother you. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u17	Excuse me, but I was on the phone with the president to receive communications. I agree with you that colleagues should keep a level of noise and chatter in the Chamber to allow for action. Please, Senator Balboni.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u18	Balboni (FdI). Thank you, President. Mr Zaffini is right: if you force us to raise the tone of our voices, perhaps even by raising the volume, so we have to scream even more, it is clear that no one arrives at the end of the intervention in the given time, because the mask makes us go in debt of oxygen. But - I understand - respect for the opponents, if one does not have it, cannot give it, it would say Don Abbondio. I was saying (if the President will return me a couple of minutes, since I have had to interrupt several times) that not only the Senators of the Brothers of Italy, but also authoritative members of the majority have tried to propose amendments to Article 1 in order to allow common sense to prevail. I repeat, there is no scientific reason why Italians should return home at 10 pm in the middle of the summer. There is no scientific reason to prevent the resumption of certain activities; I think of the swimming pools, the parks, the wedding industry, of course the restaurants, the bars. There is no reason to prevent these activities from exercising their activities, in full compliance with the security protocols. What's the point of closing down shopping malls on Saturdays and Sundays, to make sure people drown more in the other days they're open? That doesn't make any sense. We have tried modestly, from the opposition, but I believe in harmony with large parts of this majority, to make these reasonings, but of course they have not been heard. More specifically, as a member of the Justice Commission, I have tried to understand the meaning of Article 3 of the Decree-Law, on the so-called criminal shield, i.e. the article which excludes punishableness in the event of manslaughter or manslaughter, which occurred during vaccination, when the use of the vaccine complies with the indications contained in the marketing authorisation measure issued by the competent authorities and the circulars published on the Ministry of Health's institutional site relating to vaccination activities. It's basically as if it says that water freezes at zero degrees and turns into water vapor at 100 degrees centigrade. This rule has no impact on the responsibility of health care, because already today the health care provider who respects the protocols and indications and does everything he has to do according to the norm and the rules of good medical practice is free of all responsibility. This rule therefore has no impact and is indeed dangerous, because, as every student of jurisprudence knows, excluding punishableness does not mean excluding the fact, indeed it means that the fact has happened and only the application of the penalty is excluded, and this means, for example, that civil liability remains. Therefore, paradoxically, with this rule not only establishes the fact that health care, although free from criminal responsibility, will still have to undergo criminal proceedings - this is part of the logic of our legal system: in fact, one cannot approve a rule that defends from the criminal procedure a health care, because the criminal procedure is necessary - but also the fact that the health care, even if it is acquitted, will still be subject to a civil action of compensation for the damage. I have already pointed out this to the rapporteur in the Commission: the word "puniability" must be changed to the word "responsibility" if health care is really to be protected. However, the Commission rejected an amendment to this article, which had also had a favourable opinion in the Justice Commission, in order to ensure that the State at least bears the legal costs of health care, which is inevitably subject to criminal proceedings if a person unfortunately dies during vaccination or immediately afterwards, because it is clear that the causes of that death must be established. The health care provider will obviously have to appoint an attorney and an expert and will therefore have to bear expenses. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Balboni. Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I shall conclude. We had made this proposal of common sense, which had even had a favourable opinion in 2a The Committee on Justice, and yet the majority have also been deaf to this. Then you cannot say that we do not adopt a constructive and purposeful attitude, if you stubbornly refuse to listen to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this very complex measure, on which some Members then put the always sensitive and questionable subject of common sense - everyone naturally thinks that common sense corresponds to their own opinions, but there would always be a lot to discuss - has animated much the concerns, perhaps beyond measure, of the Committee on Culture, with reference to the famous Article 10 of the Decree-Law. The concern is that this measure may in some way affect the work and commitment of so many girls and so many boys, especially younger ones, particularly as regards the world of school. Therefore, in the correct choice of group leaders to speed up this debate, as a Democratic Party, we have chosen to put forward today an issue, which concerns this measure but which looks beyond. We think that a reflection on public competitions is right and that the pandemic has given us the opportunity to try to understand how to streamline, how to simplify and how to make access easier. I don't really like the concept of selection, because it's a word that makes me think of tragic things; in nature selection is something dramatic. Let's say that, rather than selecting, we should be able to value and recognize talents. This is particularly true in the school, where the skills of a teacher can be identified only after this person has been put to the test of teaching; there is no mechanism to understand it before a teacher is experienced. I think that even for the teacher himself there is no mechanism that allows him, before he is experienced in the unique relationship with a class, with boys, with pupils, to understand if he has the skills, the skills, the talent, the vocation to teach and to educate boys and girls. I therefore believe that reflection, concern and the very complicated work of mediation and confrontation within the majority, which we have already developed for this measure, for example in the expression of the opinion by the 7th Commission, and which we are also developing with a view to future measures, are not unnecessary. It is not easy to identify the way, from the technical point of view, but the principle that we must all share is that, in any way we want to involve and frame the competition for teachers, this must pass, beyond their general theoretical and technical skills, from the field verification of their effective ability to teach boys and girls. [[Applause]] This is what we are delivering to the House today, as a working method starting from the decree-law we are discussing today, but which goes much further on the next steps. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u22	Mr President, I will try to put some facts in line, in an attempt to anesthetize a lively debate that has concerned one aspect of this decree-law, namely the compulsory vaccination. I start from a fact that has been discussed little, also on the media: in recent days in Fano an eighteen-year-old boy has been subjected to TSO. What is a TSO? In fact, the TSO is put in place when the person is considered to be dangerous to himself or to others, in subjects who manifest a threat of suicide, threat or injury to things or persons, refusal to communicate with the consequent isolation, refusal of therapy, rejection of water and food. It is something heavy for an eighteen-year-old boy, who already, like many other teenagers and like many of our students, has experienced the very difficult situation created by the emergency Covid. What is this boy's fault? Not wearing a mask and provocatively questioning something that the world of grown-ups has ordered him to do. It's a bit typical of teenagers and teenagers, with a sense of rebellion that is also in the stage of life they are living, trying to stimulate a debate. And blessed is God that someone still wants to stimulate a debate! But his ability, his verve, his cultural effervescence led him to a TSO. Someone will tell me that the rules apply to everyone and that there is an obligation to wear the mask. Well, maybe this guy had seen the images you've all seen: the Inter fans' party for the Scudetto, which brought 30,000 people to Piazza del Duomo. I'm happy for Inter fans, who can celebrate (if Senator La Russa had been there he would have started doing the oil), but the problem is that this guy saw that that norm, which is general and abstract, was violated for a celebration. In the same way, in the wedding sector we are wondering if we have to win a championship to get married and to be able to organize the parties. Evidently, the generality and the astratecity of the norm fail depending on the ability to fill a square and to instill fear in those who should control compliance with the rules. The rules - I repeat - either there are or there are no rules. We are experiencing this short circuit, this asymmetry for which a Fano boy comes, for his effervescence, obligated to a TSO, with so much of hospitalization in a psychiatric ward, then luckily the lawyers managed to take him away, but think of this boy's trauma. This is just an example to make you understand the climate we are experiencing, in which dissent is asymmetrical. The issue also arises with regard to the issue that we are going to address specifically, namely the vaccination obligation for medical and health personnel. It risks becoming a dangerous precedent, because if you set the obligation for medical and health staff, why not fix it then for those who work in the public transport sector or for the teaching staff? Once you open a gap, you don't know where you can take it and I think it can lead to this. That is why I am absolutely opposed to compulsory vaccination. In this regard, I would like to enter into the folds of the specific target subject to mandatory, that is, the medical and health staff, because maybe there is a piece of this staff that is questioning the phase of experimentation, because I remember that we are in a phase of experimentation and at this stage we are creating a setback that then pours into public opinion. The AstraZeneca vaccine is rejected simply because AstraZeneca itself created the conditions for not making that vaccine appear safe in the eyes of the public, because the risk was first reported for one category of people, then for another and then for another, so a chaos was created so that the vaccine safety failed and the vaccine itself lost reliability in the eyes of the public. Public opinion must not be blamed, but those within the pharmaceutical company have produced this confusion and if they have done so, it is because they are now superpowers. A few days ago Danilo Taino of the "Corriere della Sera" wrote a very interesting analysis, highlighting how private superpowers - technology companies, finance, banks and today pharmaceutical companies - are now almost supranational nations. Consider that on this there are great texts that are asking us the problem of how the meta state is entering into the dynamics of the state and therefore today also the power of a multinational enters into the folds of our right. If a piece of scientific community rejects the vaccine, it doesn't because it's capricious or because it's no vax. This theory of labelling must be overcome. Sellin has set from this point of view. Some people are thinking about it, and indeed Pfizer is putting the conditions in these days and hours so that we have at least the opportunity to think, because if Pfizer recommends that the call be made after twenty-one days, but the EMA and the CTS say that it can be done after forty, we understand that the problem is linked only to our emergency, to the lack of vaccines. Why else extend the interval for the second dose to 40 days? This was also said by the president of Aifa Palù, in an interview published today on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera): by postponing the call, three million 60-year-olds are immediately covered at risk. It means the vials are missing. Let us read then what Article 32 of the Constitution says: "the Republic" - the one based on work under Article 1 - "protection of health as the fundamental right of the individual and - then - "as the interest of the community." So, if it's a fundamental right, you can't, for the sake of the community, make the vaccine mandatory for medical personnel when you don't have enough vaccines to cover and satisfy the basic right of the individual. That is why we must not go towards compulsory, but towards free choice and the State must guarantee that those who want to make the vaccine must be put in a position to do so. That is why I am politically rejecting compulsory vaccination. There are too many holes, too many asymmetries that eventually come out and that will also come out of the subject of the vaccination pass. The vaccine is free, the swab and serological test are paid. How then can I make free movement conditional on buffer and serological when these are paid and if I have three or four family members, they are a cost. So you submit free movement to your census and family income. We risk being beyond the Constitution. And then what do we do? Do Chinese tourists or Russians let them in with a vaccination payment logic? If the Chinese enter with their vaccine and the Russians with theirs, it means that we recognize the effectiveness of those vaccines, when the European Medicines Agency (EMA) said otherwise. I shall therefore vote against the decree-law on our examination which contains the vaccination obligation. I also note that I have proposed an amendment in which I have asked for the deletion of the article on compulsory vaccination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the central issue of compulsory vaccination, which was also introduced by my previous colleague, almost immediately brings us back to a very hard battle that started in Italy about three years ago with regard to the so-called Lorenzin decree, which provided for vaccination against measles, at that time growing worrisome among children. We all know how it turned out. The Movimento 5 Stars played part of his election campaign on the no vax operation; at the beginning of this legislature, among the very first drafts of law dealt with in 12a The Commission had just that of compulsory vaccines and I would like to inform my colleagues - if anyone would like to know how the debate started three years ago - that the measure is in the drawer, I suppose, of the Presidency or of some other body. The country has never had the courage, evidently through its Government, to take a clear position on the subject of compulsory vaccination, in the light of the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution, in which in the foreground, in pole position, there is public health. There is no doubt that the debate is always about two great values: personal freedom, the autonomy of choices and the responsibility that each of us also has towards others. We have fallen into this dramatic pandemic and people are motivated to vaccinate from the deadly risk detected every night by the bulletins. I would also remind you that last night we exceeded 280 deaths. Every evening we know that you can die and that the vaccine at this time serves not only as prevention, but almost as life-saving therapy. The first point then is that we have not faced the dilemma between health education, using the deep motivational aspect, and fear, leaving instead the latter to dictate the line. I remember that fear is not always a good counselor, even if in this case it has reduced many of the problems. However, we have allowed fear and not health education, intended as the protection of one's own and other health, to dictate the line. Now we are dealing with people who are all aware should be vaccinated: I am referring in particular to that part of the health care staff exposed to contact with Covid and therefore, indirectly, can become a transmission vehicle. And I am referring on the other hand to what wants to be a logic of respect for individual freedom. So we must ask ourselves where the boundaries of individual freedom end and where do those of the other's freedom begin? This will always be the great approach, I would say personalistic, to the theme of freedom. None of us regulates ourselves; each of us feels part of a community and is responsible for that same community. What do I mean by that? Three very simple things, but I hope with all my heart that they will be clear. The first thing is that health workers must be vaccinated, all the more so if they are exposed to illness and to being carriers of disease. Don't you want to vaccinate in the absence of formally defined obligation? That it is moved to other functions, but we must not forget that health professionals are the first drivers of health education. Secondly: I am indeed convinced that at this time and on many other occasions the vaccine has an extraordinary preventive and life-saving function, so much so that the Senate Human Rights Commission unanimously approved, in all its political parts, a motion in which it is asked to recognize that the vaccine is universal right and is an integral part of the right to life, so that it cannot be denied to anyone, because it is substantial protection of life. Thirdly, the issue of the suspension of the patentability of what we call the licenses to produce the vaccine is not in question in this principle. The first principle is that the vaccine must be given to the individual and I am not referring to the individual, but to entire populations. I have to put a state in a position to vaccinate all people; that I do this because I increase the production of vaccines at very low cost (there is the famous Covax fund that we all know is completely insufficient), or because I allow that state to produce the vaccine autonomously, is secondary to having defined the vaccine as universal right. Of course, we know that it is not enough that I give the opportunity to produce it if a country does not have the tools, the means, the technologies and the skills to do so, but our obligation no longer falls between the freedom to vaccinate me and the absolute lack of the possibility to vaccinate me, because that is not freedom, it is hypocrisy of the system. We must learn precisely in this pandemic, which has caused more deaths than the many wars around the world, that the old Europe, the Europe of rights, is indeed also the Europe of duties, in the sense of protecting people who are most in difficulty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the seriousness of the moment's health, economic and social consequences, the health emergency was an opportunity to speed up the reform of the civil and criminal process initiated by the Movimento 5 Stars and the previous Government, through the adoption of procedures remotely, such as the filing of acts and notifications, which has certainly led to a reduction of time and public money. Let us think of the videoconference hearings of prisoners, on the understanding that the judicial safeguards provided for in the Constitution, the principles of orality and the right of defence, must certainly not be compressed, in full respect of legal certainty. With the measure under discussion today, the provisions already adopted by Law No 137 of 2020 (Articles 23, 23- bis and 23-ter) are extended precisely to allow this treatment in simplified form and mainly remotely, providing for the suspension of criminal proceedings when the relevant hearings should be postponed due to objective impediments of the parties related to the Covid-19. Interviews of prisoners at a distance, extending - until 31 July 2021 - the possibility of having a video call interview with relatives or other persons to whom the prisoners are entitled, so as not to cut off relations with the family by protecting the right to the health of all. It is also specified that the malfunctioning of the portal of the telematic process is a condition for the return of the procedural deadline provided for the deposit failed due to the technological dysfunction. The special framework for the conduct of the administrative process, which has produced optimum results, is extended. In the field of accounting, the provisions that hearings before the Court of Auditors - which may be attended by the public - are to be held behind closed doors are extended. At last there is the authorization to carry out the written tests of the contest in judiciary, in order to avoid the increase of the uncoverings of staff, given also the physiological flow in exit of the magistrates for retirement, as a result of the obvious negative repercussions on the functionality of the judicial offices, in order to prejudice the achievement of those specific objectives that constitute object within the national plan of resumption and resilience. In addition, I would like to stress Article 10 of this measure, where a number of provisions are laid down to simplify procedures for public competitions. I can proudly say that, thanks to my commitment and to that of my colleagues, Mr Mantovani and Mr Russo, as well as all my colleagues on the Movimento 5 Stars of the 1st Commission, an amendment was adopted to allow qualifications and professional experience to be required only for certain technical profiles for which, in fact, special professionalism is required. In applying for qualifications and professional experience, the spirit of Articles 51 and 97 of the Constitution could have been undermined, since in fact young graduates would have been excluded, i.e. those of a minor age and a different economic capacity, not having, in many cases, the possibility to bear the costs of specialization schools or masters: a problem that I raised also with a specific question. For years we have been talking about the need for structural reform of the public administration, of a real, real turnover, focused on the substance, on the new energies in order to allow that modernization of the public administration. We must ensure this generational and cultural change. The simplification of procedures - which will also take place through the use of digital unitary platforms - can be facilitated by the employment of young people, bearing in mind that it is necessary to start this new phase of recruitment and continuous training of staff in order to strengthen skills and skills. I strongly affirm, also in virtue of my previous work experience in the apical role of the public administration, the extreme urgency of ageing it, bearing in mind that, compared to the European average, young Italians fall into one of the highest percentages of unemployment. Today the approval of the measure under examination can be a first step towards this urgent and necessary change. For years there has been talk of meritocracy and revival for the country, but a country, so that it can re-launch itself, also needs policies aimed at the valorization of our young people, who constitute our future. Another point I would like to make with reference to the amendment of Senator Evangelista, to protect health workers, providing for the punishment only for serious fault in the cases referred to in Articles 589 and 590 of the penal code, continuing the work carried out during the decree-law care Italy precisely to ensure that our heroes are such also in the facts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u25	Mr President, the measure we are debating, which has come to this House after a long and troubled iter, presents some very worrying measures: first of all, there is a lack of proportionality and adequacy, for example in the obligation on health workers to immunise themselves, where there is no certainty of the degree of non-transmissibility of the virus for the vaccinated. Therefore, the prescription of the obligation, even with the penalty of suspension without salary, of the health workers until the end of the year is a disproportionate measure that harms the individual freedom of the staff, which perhaps more than others is able to express an informed consent really on the vaccine that is being administered to them. It seems to us even more serious this imposition by the State where we consider that this staff has all the scientific expertise to be able to say whether it is actually necessary to carry it out on their own person or not. Another completely unacceptable measure is the one on public administration competitions, which also include teaching staff. First of all, this measure, which should also be related to what is foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and aimed at filling that shortage of competent administrative staff that can carry on all the practices related to the Plan measures, unfortunately it is strained with the cross-cutting objective of the Plan, which is to bridge the employment gap between generations. Unfortunately, young people are the great penalized by this reform: they are not even allowed access to selective procedures because pre-selection is expected to take place for titles, which can only be achieved by those who have the economic means and the time to access them. So young people are the big penalized in this situation. As far as the teaching staff are concerned, I have heard some speeches in the Chamber that have the opportunity of a selection not so much of merit for knowledge and skills in the teaching area through specific tests for qualifications and exams (especially exams), but with a sort of internship procedure in progress that in some way should distinguish the good teacher from those who are not. Unfortunately, I am obliged to remind you that this procedure usually takes place downstream, at the end of a selective procedure that must measure the skills and knowledge possessed by the teacher through tests that provide for a written and oral selection of candidates, therefore also a pre-selection of merit, and not a pre-selection on the basis of titles. That procedure, which is carried out in the field, takes place at the end, when the teacher has already been identified for his/her role and is carried out during the test year, which must confirm or not his/her role. It is therefore useless to confuse the waters simply to carry out a sanatoria, because this is talked about. We have just carried out an extraordinary competition for exams and titles, but in a serious procedure for recruiting teaching staff the qualifications are always evaluated at the end and not at the beginning, only after the exams have been passed and if they have been passed. All this procedure has excluded certain people, who would now have the opportunity to be fished out in this recruitment mechanism that is being introduced into the school. That is, those who have not passed the selective procedure that has just ended are now being fished out and put in place with some sort of sanatoria. This, in fact, is a matter of no use trying to mix the cards. Everything needs our school, if we are talking about school and not a summer center, as well as what Minister Bianchi is promoting as a great solution to student training gaps. This is not a suitable measure to recruit the teaching staff, who must instead have knowledge and skills related to the exercise of his profession, which must be carried out in the performance of the duties related to the teaching, on the class of competition that is the one chosen and suitable for his degree. This is therefore a surreptitious attempt to cancel the educational and social elevator function of the Italian school, because unfortunately, with various extravagant attempts, we want to equate it to a kind of parking lot of minors, to a sort of social residence for teenagers, where students acquire only an ability to interact with extremely generic civil society, which therefore does not need even a highly qualified teaching staff, as instead requires us a complex society like ours; a complex society that today in Italy lacks those skills, especially in the scientific-technological and mathematical field, that could instead give our young people the possibility of having a future. We are therefore cutting off the legs of our young people with these measures that are totally lacking in vision, both of the school and of the society in which we live. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, after last week's acrobatics on the maxi amendment to the Decree-Law Supports, on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 44 of 2021, given, as a Government and as a majority, another bad demonstration of you, confirming what Brothers of Italy have been saying since the beginning of this new experience, namely that the confusion can be even wider than the majority you have in this House. In keeping with our role as patriotic and responsible opposition, we have tried in every way, with our amending proposals, to make a contribution to this decree-law to improve it in all areas. In particular, I have done my utmost to deal with issues relating to local authorities and schools. As far as local authorities are concerned, we are uncomfortable with Monsieur de La Palice if we say that, without giving the opportunity to acquire new and formed human capital, any future reform will remain only on paper. As far as school is concerned, we must see absolute continuity with the decisions of the previous Minister and we continue to slumber without choosing on the fundamental issues and the problems that afflict the world of school. Those who have a bit of experience, even as local administrator, know that the school year must be prepared very early, especially in this condition, obviously because the difficulties that have already served this world are not yet overcome and, therefore, we risk in a capital way to find ourselves next school year with the usual difficulties or, indeed, with greater difficulty than those that already usually the world of the discounted school. We believe that decisions must be taken - we have been supporting it for years now - because it is literally unacceptable that in the school we have reached a precarious staff in Italy that reaches almost 200,000 units. How can one think of governing a strategic sector of public life that invests the future of our generations by moving forward in this way? That is why we have proposed the amendments - every time a measure gives way - which represent our battles. However, they remain unheard of. We have proposed a solution for extraordinary mobility, for the elimination of the five-year constraint for the immobilized, a competition reserved for directors of administrative general services (DSGA) acting, a competition for Catholic teachers, who have been waiting for years to be stabilised, the increase in the rate for interprovincial mobility and a plan for the recruitment of design teachers, as well as a series of amendments concerning school leaders who have done a very costly job at this stage of pandemic and who have been left alone in the face of their responsibilities. None of our proposals has been accepted and I must also point out to the Presidency that we are shocked and tired of seeing many amendments, on which the political forces of the majority obviously do not want to take responsibility for the vote, which are declared impossible on the ground, when it seems to us that they are perfectly relevant to the subject of the decree. This regrets us, but it does not scandalize us because, if one thinks that an amendment can be inserted into the law of conversion of a decree a delegated law, we are at the heart of logic. The decree should have reasons for urgency and, instead, it is thought of a delegated law to shoot the ball in the gallery to a reform of the public administration. We believe that in this way we do not go anywhere, that the Government and the majority will beat, but what we regret, as a political force that puts Italy's interest in everything, is that it will beat the nation. So, change gears. Listen to the common sense contributions, not ideological, that come from our political side. In fact, we will never do anything that goes against the interests of Italians. We are always ready to assume our responsibilities. You hire not to listen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr Rampi, in his previous speech, focused on the measures provided for in Article 10. I would like to focus on the measures relating to limits, penalisation and vaccination. Article 3 limits, precisely, the punishable by manslaughter and manslaughter for the administration of vaccines against the Covid-19 carried out during the vaccination campaign. The limitation of criminality, by defining a more favourable criterion for the person responsible for the event, also applies to cases that have already occurred. This is a fair and necessary rule, which protects those who administer vaccines. We are in the presence of absolutely extraordinary conditions, to which extraordinary interventions must correspond. Article 3, albeit perfectible, responds to this delicate need. The Commission, however, in response to a very high need, also approved an amendment on the criminal liability for death or personal injury in the field of health during the state of epidemiological emergency by SARS-CoV-2, in order to allow healthcare professionals to carry out their work in the awareness of recognised protection by the State in an unprecedented emerging context. Our country is facing the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 with an extraordinary vaccination plan, which sees thousands of healthcare professionals engaged every day. They must be given an answer, so that they can do this work without fear in making that one gesture that is able to take the country out of a nightmare that has lasted for more than a year now. Yesterday was International Nurse's Day. In reaffirming our admiration for how the health care staff are spending and spent generously and passionately on care throughout this difficult year, as a Parliament we have a duty to move from words to deeds. I believe that, with the measures contained in this measure, an important signal is being given. Article 4 of the Decree-Law in conversion introduces a vaccination obligation for health professionals and health professionals who carry out their activities in public and private health, social and social care facilities, pharmacies, parapharmacies and professional studies. The rule stands at the crossroads between different constitutional requirements: on the one hand, the right to self-determination in relation to health treatments; on the other hand, however, there are the solidarity obligations that derive, as well as from Article 2 of the Constitution, from the same qualification of health as the interest of the community, as provided for in Article 32 of the Constitution. Between these two different interests, the law identifies a point of balance, subject to the vaccination obligation, under penalty of suspension from the right to perform the services or tasks involving personal contacts or involving in any other form the risk of spread of contagion by Covid-19, the only subjects referred to in paragraph 1. In particular, the rule has articulated the balance between the different principles and interests at stake in the exercise of its discretion in a reasonable way, also in the light of the principles last affirmed in the judgment n. 5 of 2018 of the Constitutional Court. In that decision, in fact, the Court had the opportunity to state that the treatment is intended not only to improve or preserve the health of those subject to it, but also to preserve the health of others and that, at the same time, it must be avoided that it adversely affects the state of health of the person who is obliged, except for those consequences which appear normal and, therefore, detoxified. So this standard certainly responds to the different interests in the field, but it weighs significantly, as it is due to be seen the gravity of the situation, a solidarity logic that could not fail to be valued and adequately weighed in the condition that we are living. We believe that these two important aspects have been dealt with with with appropriate importance and balance in the debate in the Commission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that public fears about the so-called Brunetta reform in the field of public competitions have not been prevented, even after the amendment of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. The initial wording of article 10, paragraph 1, was unacceptable and at great risk of unconstitutionality, as highlighted by many lawyers and experts of law, but also, more simply, by people with common sense. Maybe Minister Brunetta doesn't remember our Constitution well. Article 51 provides that all citizens of both sexes may have access to public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law, while Article 97 stipulates that employment in public administrations shall normally be accessed by competition. In particular, Article 97 is a bulwark of the principles of impartiality and good governance, with a view to balancing compliance with the principle of formal and substantive legality with the discretion available to the public administration. The Minister' s need, therefore, was to speed up and simplify the process of public competitions in order to remedy in a short time the shortage of properly trained staff needed by the offices. This choice, however, cannot be done to the detriment of the community because the a priori exclusion of some candidates (i.e. those who do not have more titles than those who have access) is unacceptable. And it is also reserved to the profiles of high technical specialization, because it is however discriminating towards those who have not already gained experience dependent on an administration or has not acquired in any way specific titles, as in the case of new graduates or new graduates. The public competition, as has always been confirmed by constitutional jurisprudence, is the general and ordinary form of recruitment for the public employment and can be exempted from this rule only in the presence of specific justifying situations, in the exercise of discretion that finds its limit in the need to ensure the good performance of the public administration. Article 10 of the measure creates, instead, inadmissible discrimination at entry, based on the possession or not of cultural titles and service, as a prerequisite for continuing the competition procedure. The ratio of the public competition, which is unfortunately changing in its general character, is that all candidates in possession of admission certificates are placed at the same starting point. With the same score as the outcome of the selective process, a valorization of previous titles and experiences may also be legitimately envisaged, but introducing this condition to the origin in an exclusive way is truly intolerable. In fact, the principle of substantial equality is undone, especially at a time when securities can be easily found on the market, on the basis of their economic availability. In this way this majority and this Government are introducing into the law a principle of differentiation in public competitions based on the availability of money, overturning the ordinary method of selection according to which the carrying out of the competitions is the one that allows the selection of the most deserving candidates. If some of these candidates - perhaps the best ones - are excluded from the selection, then we are not rendering a public service to our country. It is not conceivable that the justification of the pandemic situation can legitimize such a choice, completely frustrating the legitimate expectations of those new graduates or graduates who aspire to work for the administration, simply wanting to compare themselves with other candidates. This, in fact, would be first and foremost preclusive compared to genuine selection in those sectors, such as health and local authorities, which have suffered most in recent years from turnover blockades. Do we close young people, perhaps to stabilize some income position? And you call this a public interest? We are still in time, however, ladies and gentlemen, to go back and delete Article 10 very simply; no one is stopping us from doing so. It is a personal choice, which concerns the conscience of each of us and is not subject to party logic, because it concerns the higher interest of our country. I am aware, however, that this will not happen at all and that it will derogate from the rules laid down in the decree of the President of the Republic No 487 of 1994 on public competitions, allowing public administrations to use the shortcuts provided for in Article 10. There would have been other ways to speed up the selective process, such as the peremptory terms for each stage of trial; instead, the most painful route was chosen, cutting off from the procedures a priori part of the candidates, also for the contests being completed. In short, a choice has been made very far from respecting the principles of a rule of law. Probably, of all the possibilities put in place, the worst solution has been chosen, especially because, not specifying what are the profiles with high technical specialization, the risk of an abusive interpretation of this norm is really high. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u32	President Calderoli, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Bergamini, first a brief but due thanks to those who have been working on the ground in the first Committee on Constitutional Affairs these days. I have to say that everyone has worked to find a convergence that - believe me - was not easy to identify in the first few hours. You all deserve a round of applause. [[Applause]] , starting with the President of the Parrini Commission, whom I thank for the balance he has shown in the course of the work, to continue with Senator Bressa, who has also registered Senator Pagano in his fan club, because he has shown himself to be a person of great balance, of great intelligence and of great experience; believe me, dear colleague, that counts and is always worth a lot. Well, after a long job (I'm sorry for the hours of sleep lost by the Undersecretary Bergamini [[Applause]] This House has shown seriousness, a sense of responsibility and, if you will allow me, a sense of maturity. There are some things I mean and that, in my opinion, are fundamental to this provision. It is not the usual decree-law Covid-19, like those that came to Parliament's attention in the past months; it is, in this case, a different decree-law, innovative, which takes into account some unresolved issues or issues that this measure intends to resolve. Let's start with the first: we know that the decree-law intervenes in advance on the usual measures of containment and contrast to the pandemic by Covid-19. It then introduces a number of articles, starting, for example, from Article 3, that on the criminal liability of vaccine administration, which allowed Members (giving Parliament the weight and above all the space it deserves) the introduction of the so-called criminal shield, a topic particularly dear to myself and to the Forza Italia Group. We have introduced a will, which is to safeguard certainly the people who have unfortunately had health problems because of the pandemic, especially in the hours and days of the beginning, but also those people who have lost, during this terrible year, their loved ones because of this epidemic. However, we absolutely cannot forget - and in this case we have remembered very well - that the doctors in our country represented a real category of heroes of our society. It is precisely the doctors, nurses and all health workers, who had to be absolutely safeguarded, through the introduction of the criminal shield that provides for the decree-law at our examination; a criminal shield - it is quite clear - does not give everyone the possibility to come out of it free, but there is a cover that concerns the manslaughter responsibility, for death or personal injury in the health field, during the state of epidemiological emergency from SARS-CoV-2. This measure is particularly significant for us. Many have contributed, and I would also like to mention Secretary Sisto, who has been in contact with us several times and has wanted to contribute to the introduction of the relevant parliamentary amendment. I must say that all the political formations, albeit with a sometimes hard and sometimes less hard contribution, have helped to find a common solution, so much so that in the end we have all agreed to the introduction of an amendment by the rapporteur, approved unanimously and therefore also by the Opposition Group, Brothers of Italy, who voted in favour. This is a fundamental novelty, but it is not the only one. Another issue that we particularly care about is, for example, the introduction of the vaccination obligation for all healthcare professionals. This is also a battle that Forza Italia had waged several times, and our colleague, Senator Ronzulli, will talk about it in an explanation of vote. This is another fundamental battle that serves, above all, to safeguard the citizens who must be vaccinated and to whom it was absolutely necessary to meet. It was in fact incredible to assume that in some RSAs there was no possibility of vaccination, because health workers working in those places refused to be vaccinated and, therefore, were potentially carriers of the virus, against precisely the most fragile figures. I still remember listening to a mayor of a minor city during a television show who wondered how he could have the elderly and the fragile vaccinated in an RSA, if those who work there refuse to be vaccinated. The measure thus introduces this possibility. In conclusion, I would also like to recall the fact that I have introduced measures to simplify the procedures for public competitions. This is a matter that is particularly dear to our Minister Brunetta and we like it enormously, because it will mean moving from the Middle Ages to modern society, with the possibility of finally getting away from those absurd quizzes that certainly did not allow to establish the competence and preparation of a candidate. And above all, it will mean allowing young people to be employed in the public administration, since an amendment by the rapporteur has been introduced which takes into account the needs of the youngest and our best graduates. Thanks therefore to Minister Brunetta. Finally, I would like to thank you for another amendment which contains another fundamental measure, introduced in liminolitis in the measure under consideration, to arrive at the solution of an old and long-standing problem relating to the slum of Messina. I therefore think that on this occasion Parliament has been able to act well and do its work well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u33	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u34	Mr President, we have given up some time at our disposal to facilitate the continuation of the work and therefore, since the measure is very heterogeneous, we will discuss other aspects during the explanation of vote and I will focus in particular on two aspects. The first - as Mr Pagano said just now - is certainly the important introduction of the criminal shield for the manslaughter of doctors and health workers. From Bergamo I know what they had to live in our hospitals - especially last year, but it still happens today - with the difficulty of not knowing, especially at the beginning, whether the care they were doing could be right or not. [[Applause]] So it is certainly necessary that the shield be provided. Of course, during the Commission's work we had the opportunity to compare. I would like to thank Mr Bergamini, the rapporteur and all the members of the Commission, for this has been a very comprehensive work, which has been carried out in a cordial and constructive way. I believe, however, that the task of our parliamentarians is also a little 'of monitoring what the various ministries are doing, precisely with a view to improving the measures; sometimes we succeed and sometimes we do not. In this case I refer to Article 10 on competitions, which in itself is certainly a good step forward as a type of organization to speed up the tests, at a complicated time like that of the Covid, in which the competitions stopped and then split partially. Now there are bandit contests to share (I speak mainly for local authorities). Perhaps, however, in the haste to introduce new regulations, problems that touch the municipalities have not been calculated. I have presented an agenda in which I ask the Government to consider at least the possibility of setting up an ad hoc fund to help local authorities, particularly small and medium-sized municipalities, to find the necessary funds to pay everything they need today to carry out a public competition: the rental of devices - whether tablet or computer - the connection and the rental of rooms. Unfortunately, I was surprised in the Commission this morning that this agenda was only accepted as a recommendation, which makes me understand that the problem has probably not been understood. Let me just give you an example, taken from the emails that are coming to our Municipalities just these days: The company "x," leader in the short-term rental of devices such as notebooks, tablets, SIMs and peripherals, renews support to PA. Following Decree-Law No 44 of 1 April 2021, we have thought of an ad hoc proposal for public bodies (with estimates attached). Considering the cost of the device, the connection, the transport, the VAT and the programs to be inserted, we start from a minimum of 50 euros per participant. This means that if 100 people were to participate in a competition, it would be 5,000 euros, perhaps for a municipality of 1,000 inhabitants (more or less what it has to budget, throughout the year, in the field of culture and events). To these 5,000 euros is added the cost of the possible rental of a room; are coming availability, also from important fairs, to rent the rooms. The Undersecretary is here at the moment, but of course it is a matter that the Minister of the Interior should be interested in: I ask you to check the additional costs of the new competitions for local authorities. The ANCI also intervened in a press release because, after a year like this, I think the municipalities deserve a little more attention and we cannot tell them to use the money they have on the budget. [[Applause]] I thank Minister Brunetta for this important reform, but we must help the municipalities by giving them the money that the State obliges them to spend, that they are not there at the moment and that they will soon be gone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator D'Angelo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, we are here today to convert Decree-Law No 44 of 2021. This decree stands as another piece of the battle that we are fighting against the pandemic, carrying out every day a huge political-institutional work to find solutions to the needs of citizens precisely in the emergency. As my colleagues have already mentioned, this decree-law contains so many important measures and solutions. During my speech, I would like to draw my attention in particular to some of the novelties that have been introduced during the examination in the Commission, which I have to say has proved more complex than what had been anticipated and which has involved a huge work by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I thank both the President and the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The important novelty to which I refer is the one that concerns my city, Messina, and a battle that also the Movimento 5 Stars leads on the territory since he entered Parliament, but above all in a more concrete way since he is in the Government: the barracks of Messina are a national shame on which the old politics has speculated and built an easy consensus, to the detriment of the dignity of those who live there. There are still thousands of households living in degraded areas, in casupole with roofs in Eternit and in cramped spaces. It is an inhumane condition, incompatible with any civil social context, but that precisely at this moment of pandemic has found the maximum peak of unbearable, precisely because - even from some reliefs that have been carried out by the provincial health company - it is evident that the sanitary conditions of those structures are not at all adequate. You can imagine, colleagues, how absurd it is to think that you can spend a quarantine period in 30 square meters, with five or six people. This is a reality that, of course, is not only due to the earthquake of 1908, from which it originated, but many slums are the result of the bad policy that has been implemented in recent years, the bad management of the territory that left this shameful legacy that arrived the time to face and resolve in a concrete way. We did not go into that reality to make electoral campaigns and promises aimed at easy consensus, but we tried to study concrete solutions precisely to draw nearly 6,000 people out of an unacceptable condition. Amendment 11.0.1000 came from the government that we have decided to support: a very important amendment that finally represents the awareness that the normal procedures attributed to local authorities cannot be sufficient to deal with the problem and therefore serves the action of a commissioner appointed by the government, seen in the figure of guarantee of the prefect, to promote others. Of course, we need specific funding that can overcome those bureaucracy times that very often blocked all the practices put in place. It is also necessary to avoid, when the buildings are released, that they are immediately reoccupied and that is precisely why the immediate demolition of the structures and the immediate reclamation of those areas must be carried out. The financial envelope is appropriate and will therefore allow action to be taken quickly. This is a huge result that we have managed to achieve and that we want to claim. Another important chapter of the decree always concerns issues pertaining to the territory and the South, where youth unemployment is growing strongly, and it is that relating to the new criteria of recruitment of staff of the public administration through competition. The text launched by the Government in its original formulation, the so-called Brunetta norm, was excessively unbalanced, as it constituted a sort of convention to exclude young people, towards our next generation. The excessive weight given to the titles and professional experiences for access to the competitions in the final score cut the legs of the newly graduate. It was therefore necessary that skills and profiles adapted to the challenges of the future as the recovery plan were highlighted. Those who study with profit must be able to play their chances and find a job in public offices without being systematically overcome by those who have different titles. The meritocracy cannot be practiced every other day. Our battle has seen a positive outcome in the examination in the Commission and the changes we have approved create a mix of opportunities to be guaranteed and qualifications to be recognised. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u37	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the dossiers of the amendments adopted in the Commission have been received. The thirty-minute deadline for the possible submission of sub-amendments is therefore due from now on. We must wait for an assessment by the Presidency of the admissibility of the amendments that have been adopted, if you all agree, to prevent the House from being sanitized, so that we can resume work at 12.45 p.m. with the votes. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.51 a.m. and resumed at 12.47 p.m.) Colleagues, I inform you that the work will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders currently under way. The sitting was suspended at 12.47 p.m. and resumed at 2.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u38	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 20 May. The session of Tuesday 18 will open with the commemoration of the figure of Judge Livatino. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes. This will follow the discussion of the Decree-Law on Food Safety Penalties, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The times have been divided among the Groups. On Wednesday 19 there will be a discussion of the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on immunity. Thursday 20, at 9.30 am, will be examined the drafts of law on agriculture with biological method and on the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region. Amendments will have to be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Monday 17 May. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of ministers of agricultural policies, culture and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u39	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, approved - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 20 May: [[Tuesday, May 18 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2201 - Decree-Law n. 42, Sanctions on food safety (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (deceased on May 23) - Documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunity in the matter of Article 68 of the Constitution - Drawing of law n. 988 - Agriculture by organic method (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 20, 15) Wednesday 19 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 20 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law no. 988 (Accommodation with biological method) and 1144 and connected (Distack of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region) must be presented by 5 p.m. on Monday 17 May. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2201 (Decree-Law No 42, Food Safety Sanctions) (1 hour and 20 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 10' FIBP-UDC 10' Mixed 10' PD 10' FdI 10' IV-PSI 10' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u40	The Presidency, in accordance with what was decided in the course of the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, the amendments 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 1.0.6, 1.0.7, 1.0.8, 1.0.9, 1.0.10, 1.0.11, 1.0.13, 2.3, 2.4, 4.0.2, 4.0.4, 4.0.8, 4.0.9, 4.0.10, 5.0.1, 6.11, 6.12, 6.13, 6.14, 6.0.1, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.6, 7.0.1, 7.0.2, 8.2, 8.0.5, 8.0.6, 9.0.2, 9.0.3, 9.0.5, 9.0.6, 9.0.7, 9.0.8, 9.0.0.10,0.10,0.10,0.11, 9.0.12, 10.62, 10.0.11, 10.0.14, 10.0.15, 10.0.16, 10.0.17, 9.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.10,0.12, 10.62, 10.0.11, 10.0,10.0,10.0,10.0,10.0,0,0.10.0,0,0,0.10.0,0,10.0,10.0,10.0,10.0,10.0,11,11,11,11,1,1,1,1,1,10.0,11,1,10.0,11,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1 I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u41	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of amendments 1,200 and 1.10. I call for amendments 1.3 and 1.5 (text 2) to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against. The opinion was opposed to Amendments Nos 1.11 and 1.12. Mr President, I would like to ask for a brief suspension because there are no amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u42	I am suspending the sitting pending the distribution of the files. (The sitting was suspended at 2.11 p.m. and resumed at 2.21 p.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work. I would like to ask the rapporteur, who has pointed out to me that he needs some time to analyse the dossier, what he needs. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u43	I apologise, Mr President, but I think it is also in the interests of my fellow Members, because the files are not yet available and there are different numbers than there were before, so there is a need to coordinate. I think we need to have until 3:15 p.m. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u44	Colleagues, please. The sitting is suspended for an hour. It will resume at 3.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.22 p.m. and resumed at 3.21 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would once again ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u45	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,200 and 1.10. Invitation to withdraw amendments 1.3, 1.4 (text 2), 1.5 (text 2), 1.11 and 1.12, otherwise the opinion is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u46	Let us turn to the opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u47	BRESSA, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of the G1.1 agenda with the following rewording of the commitment: by the end of May, to assess, on the basis of the evolution of the epidemiological framework, as well as the progress of the vaccination campaign, the updating of the decisions taken by Decree-Law No 52 of 2021, including by reviewing the time limits for movement. I also express a favourable opinion on the G1.2 agenda with the following rewording of the commitment: "by the end of May to assess, on the basis of the evolution of the epidemiological framework, as well as the progress of the vaccination campaign, the updating of the decisions taken by Decree-Law No 52 of 2021, also reviewing the possibility of reopening the commercial activities and also the catering activities, also within the framework of Decree-Law No 52 of 2021. I am against the G1.3 agenda. I am also in favour of the G1.4 agenda if reworded as follows: I am in favour of the G1.5 agenda. As far as the agenda is concerned, G1.6, I welcome the first reworded commitment by putting forward the words: "to consider whether it is appropriate and contrary to the second commitment." Finally, I would like to express my support for the G1100 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us turn to the opinion on the additional amendments. BRESSA, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 1.0.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u48	The remaining additional amendments are all unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u49	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u50	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by the Commission. We are waiting for colleagues to take their seats, hoping that they will not abandon him until the end. Colleagues, the measure is made up of 11 articles and a whole host of amendments and on average we have at least two hours behind schedule. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.1 and 1.2 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, up to the words "once a day". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.5 (text 2) are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.6 to 1.9 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.10 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u53	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, with Amendment No 1.11 you are asking, as from 1 May, to be able to move all over the national territory to another private home without restrictions. We are still talking about this crazy and useless limitation that they have taken away practically everywhere and in so many nations there has never been. In Switzerland, which is glued to Italy, they have never had and do not even know what curfew is. There's no reason to stop people from leaving the house. Perhaps it is mainly used to prevent people from meeting and perhaps exchanging ideas and opinions, thus forcing them to only be able to work, eat and sleep; to work, if they can work, and to eat if they can eat in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u54	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u57	BRESSA, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to amend an opinion on the G1.3 agenda, signed by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. I voted against the basic text, but I voted in favour of text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u60	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). I would ask you to be able to add the signature to agenda G1.3 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u63	COLLINA (PD). I would ask, on behalf of the whole Group of the Democratic Party, to be able to add the signature to the same agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u64	I note that they ask to add the signing to the agenda G1.3 (text 2), in addition to Senator Toffanin and all the members of the Democratic Party Group, also the Senators of the Movimento 5 Star Group, the remaining members of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group and the Senators of the Per le Autonomie Group. I now ask Senator Augussori if he accepts the proposals for reformulation on agendas G1.1 and G1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u65	Mr President, since the G1.1 and G1.2 agendas commit the government in a very short time to review curfew rules and reopening rules, I accept the proposals for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u66	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.1 (text 2), G1.2 (text 2) and G1.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Pharaoh if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.4. FARAONE (IV-PSI). I accept the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.4 (text 2) and G1.5 will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Stabile if she accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.6. STABLE (FIBP-UDC). I accept, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.6 (text 2) and G1,100 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.0.1 was withdrawn and transformed into the agenda G1.100, which was accepted by the Government. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.3 has been withdrawn. Amendments 1.0.4 to 1.0.13 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u67	Mr President, as mentioned earlier, almost everywhere abroad didactics are always in attendance. I am referring in particular to Switzerland - which practically closed almost nothing, except the restaurants indoors - where the pools are currently open, people are free to go out 24 hours and students have always gone to school. Amendment 2.1 calls, at least for this end of the school year, for the presence of pupils at school to be 100%.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u68	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u69	Mr President, as far as Amendment 2.1 is concerned, I am calling for it to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against it. The opinion was in favour of amendment 2,200. On the G2.1 agenda, I am in favour of the adoption, provided that it is reworded as follows: "to consider whether the results of the necessary in-depth discussions in the relevant technical and scientific bodies should be adopted...." I am also in favour of the adoption of the G2100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u70	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u71	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2,200 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.2 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.100. Amendments 2.3 and 2.4 cannot be proposed. I would ask the signatories of the G2.1 agenda if they accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u74	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to add the signature to the agenda and accept the proposed rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u75	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1 (text2) and G2100 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 2.0.1 and 2.0.2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u76	Mr President, on Amendments 3.2, 3.3 and 3.5, I am calling for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of 3,200. I call for Amendment 3.6 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it, as it is against 3.8 and 3.11 given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. As regards the agenda G3.100, I support the acceptance, as well as the G3.101, provided, for the latter, that the words: "in the next decree "Sostegni -bis " are replaced by the following: "in the next useful measure". The opinion was also in favour of the adoption of the G3 102 agenda. Finally, I am in favour of the additional amendment 3.0.100 and against 3.0.3 if it is not withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u77	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u80	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, amendments 3.2, 3.3 and 3.6 were absorbed by the various rewordings, so they had already been withdrawn, as the Parent Company was rightly trying to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u81	Amendments 3.1 to 3.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.6 and 3.7 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.13 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G3.100. Let us move on to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u84	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 3.8 has been reworded in a text 4, which is included in the Commission's amendment 3.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u85	Amendments 3.8 to 3.10 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 3.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u88	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, as I have tried to explain this morning in general debate, our amendment tends to ensure that the legal costs to be borne by the health care workers who have been vaccinated, as a result of the opening of criminal proceedings at an unfortunate event during vaccination (whether it is a death or a disease), are borne by the State. There is no criminal shield in the world that can prevent the opening of criminal proceedings. I have already explained this morning that Article 3 of this decree-law is fresh water and has no influence on the judicial system (we will talk about the rapporteur's amendment later). It therefore seems to me that the State should at least cover the legal costs to which health care will be obliged.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.12 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G3.102. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.100 will not be put to the vote. Senator Mantovani, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G3.101? MANTOVANI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G3,101 (text 2) and G3,102 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 3.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u92	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, on Amendment 3.0,100 we will vote in favour even if we have a concern that I wish to remain in the proceedings. The rapporteur does not listen to my advice: I gave him one and he did not listen to it, so I try to give him another. When the Commission writes in this amendment that, with regard to the offences referred to in Articles 589 and 590, i.e. injury and manslaughter committed in the exercise of a health profession and which are caused in the emergency situation, in my opinion the expression "found cause" is misunderstanding. In fact, Article 40 of the Criminal Code clearly states what causality is and expressly provides that the offence is attributed to the agent only when the event is a consequence of the action. This is the causal relationship. If you want to talk about the cause in this text, it can be interpreted as meaning that when criminality is excluded anyway, because there is a cause determined by the emergency situation, then the situation poses no problem. The problem is that whenever there is no such cause, having automatically used this term in this article can only mean that the liability of the agent exists and therefore once again this rule, although dictated by good intentions, risks not achieving any concrete result. I would suggest that the rapporteur simply remove the words: "and that they find cause" so that the text becomes: "Committed in the exercise of a health profession in an emergency situation." This wording would be much clearer for each interpreter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u95	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too would like to say that the Group of the European Forza Italia voted in favour of this amendment, which - I do not hide it - is of great satisfaction to my group. It arises from a good comparison with the Group of Brothers of Italy; I have listened carefully and with esteem to the words of my colleague Balboni, but it is clear that this final solution seeks to meet, on the one hand, the category of doctors, who have been under physical and professional stress for over a year, and, on the other hand, the relatives of the victims of those who have suffered serious losses or even only those who have been sick with permanent consequences. It is clear that a solution had to be found; this was the one that went well for everyone, particularly the Ministry of Justice, which obviously had to be the notary of this solution. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u98	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I agree with the considerations put forward by Senator Balboni and, in another respect, I must say that it remains an indeterminate case, which means that the magistrates, with their discretion, will determine what is cause and what is not. Therefore, I am sorry that the Ministry of Justice, the Government, gave a favourable opinion on this amendment which - let us not forget - is part of a decree-law that talks about vaccinations, so it is right that the side effects of vaccinations are not put at the expense of health care, but to widen the panorama of irresponsibility by fault up to this point it seems to me that it is not allowed in our system. However, there is another point that may not be considered. This rule will enter into force after it will be published in the Official Journal, therefore it will create a difference of treatment between those who have dealt with the trials and investigations previously and those who have dealt with them after the publication of the decree-law itself. Therefore there will still be a difference of treatment, an unconstitutionality for inequality that I think is absolutely visible and detectable. For this reason, in a personal capacity, I am voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u101	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, on a personal note, I am voting against Amendment 3.0.100, which - as has already been said - certainly has constitutional illegitimacy profiles and I do not think that the appeals will be late. Furthermore, the amendment is not intended to achieve the objectives on which it was agreed, namely to provide a criminal shield for vaccinated doctors. I myself, in view of the situation, was quite in favour of widening the audience of the beneficiaries of the rule, but with this rule it is done indiscriminately, without putting any limit. Regardless of paragraph 1, which presents the criticalities of which my colleagues have spoken, with paragraph 2, in fact leaves free field to the evaluation using a very abstract concept of gravity of the penalty, which is excluded in all the circumstances in which there is a shortage of staff, limited scientific knowledge and imperishment of the staff used not only to the issues of care of the Covid. I had proposed to limit it at least to the care of the Covid in general and, instead, the norm has expanded completely to understand any kind of medical fault. In this way we are objectively constituting an amnesty for any kind of medical guilt on which one cannot agree. It is a pity that we miss a good opportunity and run the risk, if this rule is challenged, of frustrating the objectives that we all set ourselves. Therefore, in a personal capacity, I would like to say that I voted against Amendment 3.0.100. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u104	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the whole Movimento 5 Stars, I am voting in favour of Amendment 3.0.100, which I believe has been correctly formulated by the Government for all the facts that are causing the health emergency. He was absolutely armored for the coronavirus health emergency. President, we have called the doctors and nurses heroes and angels. Today, with the amendment we are going to vote on, we give them real, effective and concrete protection to protect them and to allow them to work peacefully, without the nightmare of the criminal trial. [[Applause]] President, this is also a rule for young medical graduates because they are deserting the calls for specializations, terrified of the emergency and this disease. We want to help these categories and all healthcare professionals, raising them in their responsibilities, making them work in serenity. But, Mr President, this is also a rule for citizens because they have the right to be treated and to find doctors at their disposal. Citizens will always be able to ask the civil court for compensation if they feel damaged. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u105	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Pagano, do you insist on voting on Amendment 3.0.3? PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 3.0.3 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3.0.4 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G3.101. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u106	Mr President, the amendment I have tabled seeks to delete Article 4, which introduces, for the period up to the full implementation of the national strategic plan on vaccination against Covid-19 and, in any case, not later than 31 December 2021, the obligation of such vaccination for health professionals and health professionals. However, as already stated in the debate on the question referred this morning, this is a rule which violates Council of Europe Resolution 2361 of 28 January 2021, which stated that no one can be forced to vaccination and can suffer discrimination of any kind if he is not vaccinated. The Council of Europe is the executive body of the European Court of Justice. Therefore, this rule exposes the extensors to the civil and criminal consequences resulting from the violation of principles laid down in legislative sources of superior degree and of immediate application in the internal system. It also violates the special laws on access to the profession, which prevail in the hierarchy of sources over this ordinary law. A doctor, who is entitled under the law to practise the profession, cannot be prevented from working under a vaccination obligation outside the requirements of the special law and European laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u107	Mr President, as I have already had the opportunity to say in this morning's speech, I find the possibility of including and approving the compulsory vaccination for a professional category worrying, because we risk creating a precedent, which may in some way be the basis for widening the audience. Today they are the medical and health workers, tomorrow they can be those of public transport or the world of school. Therefore, I absolutely ask for the deletion of Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u108	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u109	Mr President, on Amendments 4.1 and 4.2, I call for a withdrawal or I am against it. On Amendments 4.4 and 4.200, the opinion was in favour. Amendments 4.17, 4.20, 4.21 and 4.22 were rejected by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. Amendment 4.23 has been withdrawn and transformed into the G4100 agenda. Amendment 4.26 was rejected by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion was in favour of the G4100 agenda and the G4101 agenda. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 4.0.5 and 4.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u110	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u111	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Paragone, identical to Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.3 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u114	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to speak on Amendment 4.26 to express the surprise at the expression of improcability, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on an amendment which cannot be charged. Amendment 4.26 basically calls for the possibility for AIRE nationals temporarily in Italy to be vaccinated. This possibility, in fact, the Government has already foreseen it, through the order of the Extraordinary Commissioner for the execution of the vaccination campaign, General Son. The order, dating back to April 24, 2021, where we go, precisely, to predict, on the list of persons who are entitled to vaccination, also the Italians enrolled in AIRE temporarily in Italy, expressly says that the implementation of this order does not result new or greater burdens on public finances. This order, in fact, has not yet been implemented. Hence this amendment, which essentially reiterates the same concept, namely that these citizens are entitled to vaccination where they are temporarily in Italy. If reference is made to Article 81 of the Constitution, it contradicts what the Government has already resolved through the Order. I therefore call on the Government to re-evaluate the matter and the possibility of the amendment being put to the vote in such a way as to give effect to what the Commission has basically already decided and which does not entail any additional costs, as already provided for in the order.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u117	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak on the issue now posed by Senator Garavini and on which I agree, mainly because I think - I address everyone, speaking constructively - that these things happen because we work too quickly. If there was more time to discuss and evaluate the amendments and to deepen the issues, without always having to run to prevent the House of Members from then having time to approve the measures, we might all be able to do a better job. I hope that these unpleasant incidents can help us in the continuation of all the parliamentary work that we will have to do, especially with regard to the decrees. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u118	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.6 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.7 to 4.16 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 4.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u121	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, as I have just said, compulsory vaccination does not really make sense. Amendment 4.17 proposes that, in the event of a lack of vaccination, at least one should stop at the time when demand is forecast, since Article 4 of the measure even provides that the worker may be suspended until 31 December without remuneration. With the amendment that we are going to vote on, we propose that the maximum forecast should be that of demand, with the maintenance of salary. They are people who, like all of us, must arrive at the end of the month and have the right, as workers, to receive remuneration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u122	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.18 and 4.19 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 4.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u125	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to announce my Group's support for this amendment, of which Mr Pillon is the first signatory, aimed at removing an incomprehensible limit in the measure. The correct consideration of protecting the health care staff in contact with Covid, through the vaccine, replaces a punitive intention that completely overturns logic in the sense of a compulsory vaccine that is not present - and cannot be - in our order, or in the European treaties signed by Italy. As a post office, the rule is widely open to appeal in all fora as it conflicts openly with our Constitutional Charter and the numerous treaties signed at European level. We therefore welcome a shift in the number of workers who refuse the vaccine to another job and a reduction (if anything temporary and partial) of the remuneration by virtue of the new functions carried out, but it cannot be expected to put at home in compulsory leave, without compensation, such staff because this is likely to be large and easy recourses. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u128	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, we in L'Alternativa will also be voting in favour of amendments 4.20, 4.21, 4.22 and 4.23, which gradually restrict or eliminate sanctions against health care workers who refuse to immunise themselves. It is also right for us to change their duties; it is not right to sanction them and, if the amendments that prevent sanctions are not adopted, we shall be voting gradually in favour of the subsequent amendments, which provide for their reduction, i.e. the reduction of salaries. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u130	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u131	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to explain my abstention vote because the wording here does not solve the issue. It is right not to oblige and if anything move the subject to another task, but the salary must be calibrated to the task and must not have any punitive aspect. As has been said several times, in fact, this is contrary to our rule and to those arising from the Treaties, so it does not solve the issue. I shall abstain because the amendments seek to be, to some extent, contentious with the damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u132	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senator Pillon and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.23 and 4.24 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u135	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, Amendment 4.26 is what Senator Garavini referred to. I would like to stress this, because our Group will naturally vote in favour and I also renew the invitation to the Government to review a decision that is absolutely irrational, given that the amendment is objectively not burdensome. I ask the government to reconsider its position. However, we shall vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u138	Mr Bergamini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I would need a few minutes' suspension to examine it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u139	Since we are still waiting for a number of votes, I would prefer to put it aside and continue with the examination of the amendments. Without comment, Amendment 4.26 is set aside. Amendment 4.27 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4,100 and G4,101 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 4.0.2, 4.0.3 and 4.0.4 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.5, which is identical to Amendment 4.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u142	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to add my signature and withdraw Amendment 4.0.5, since we have come to the conclusion that we are turning it into an agenda in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u143	Senator Pharaoh also withdraws the amendment at his signature and turns it into an agenda. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G4.0.5 and G4.0.6 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4.0.7 has been withdrawn. Amendments 4.0.8, 4.0.9 and 4.0.10 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u144	Mr President, I call for the amendments tabled to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u145	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u146	Amendments 5.1 to 5.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u149	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, the reason for this amendment is that, in the case of persons who have not been admitted, the functions of support administrator must still be covered by a family member and cannot be delegated to third parties. That is why we are calling for this amendment to be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u150	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.5 tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u151	Mr President, I call for amendments 6.6 and 6.10 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 6,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u152	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u153	Amendments 6.1 to 6.5 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.7, 6.8 and 6.9 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.10, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.11 and 6.12 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6,200 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.13, 6.14 and 6.0.1 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u154	Mr President, I call for amendment 7.4 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendments 7.5 (text 2) and 7.0.1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u155	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u156	Amendments 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.4 tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.5 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.6 is not possible. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.0.1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.0.1 and 7.0.2 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u157	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 8,500 and 8,200 and the G8,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u158	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. The Government then accepted the agenda G8.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u159	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 8,500, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.1 has been withdrawn. Amendment 8.2 is unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,200 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.100 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 8.0.1 has been withdrawn. Amendments 8.0.2 to 8.0.6 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u160	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendment 9,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u161	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u162	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.0.2 to 9.0.12 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u163	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendments 10.1, 10.2, 10.19, 10.21, 10.25, 10.31, 10.32, 10.35, 10.40, 10.44, 10.53, 10.55, 10.60 and 10.65; otherwise the vote will be against. The opinion is in favour of Amendments 10,22, 10,500, 10,27, 10,200, 10,50, 10,52, 10.57, 10,1000, while against Amendments 10,9, 10,10, 10,12, 10,41, 10,42, 10,47 and 10,59. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of the adoption of the G10.1 agenda. On the other hand, I am against the G10.2 and G10100 agendas. I therefore support the adoption of agendas G10.101, provided that the second commitment is reworded by pressing the words: "to assess the appropriateness of "." G10.102, provided that the commitment is reworded by replacing the words: "to take initiatives" with the following: "to assess the possibility of hiring "G10.103" and "G10.104" (text 2) but limited to the second commitment. As regards the additional amendments, I support Amendments 10.0.8 (text 2), 10.0.22 and 10.0.39 (text 3), as reworded at the request of the 5th Commission. I am against Amendments 10.0.1, 10.0.2, 10.0.3, 10.0.4, 10.0.5, 10.0.6, 10.0.150, 10.0.151, 10.0.9, 10.0.10, 10.0.12, 10.0.13 and 10.0.35.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u164	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I agree with the rapporteur, but with a specific amendment referring to Amendment 10.0.8. Following further technical insights into the burden of the Commission's amending proposal, the Government's opinion is favourable provided that paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: To the expenses deriving from the paragraph 1, pairs to euro 61,200 for 2022, euro 262,500 for 2023, euro 213,100 for 2024, euro 334,400 for 2025, euro 204,600 for 2026, euro 219,600 for 2027, euro 330,200 for 2028, euro 302,900 for 2029 and euro 424,500 from 2030, is provided by means of corresponding reduction of the authorization of expenditure carried out by article 1, paragraph 1, letter a) of Decree-Law 29 March 2004, n. 81, converted with modifications from the law 26 May 2004, n. 138.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u165	This is a rewording of amendment 10.0.8 on the vexed question of coverage. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.3 and 10.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 10.22 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.5 to 10.8 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 10.9, tabled by Senator Paragone, until the words "delete" (c) ; ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 10.10 and 10.12. are therefore excluded. Amendment 10.11 was withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,500, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.13 to 10.18 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.20 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.21 tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.23 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.24, tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.25 tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.26 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 10.27 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.28 and 10.29 have been withdrawn. Amendment 10.30 is not possible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.31 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.32 tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.33 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,34 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Fattori, identical to Amendment 10,35, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.36 to 10.39 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.40 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 10.41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.41 tabled by Senator Rampi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 10.42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.42 tabled by Senator Rampi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.43 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.44 tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.45 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 10,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.46 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 10.47, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.47, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.48 and 10.49 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.50 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10:52 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.53 tabled by Senator Quagliariello, identical to amendment 10.55, tabled by Senator Corrado and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.54 and 10.56 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.57 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 10,1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.58 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 10.59, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.59 tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.60 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.61 and 10.62 cannot be proposed. Amendments 10.63 and 10.64 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.65 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.1 will not be put to the vote. Senator Grassi, do you insist on voting on the agenda G10.2? GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.2, presented by Senator Grassi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G10.100 agenda has been withdrawn. I would ask Senator Doria if he accepts the proposed reformulation on the agenda G10.101. DORIA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Mantovani if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the agenda G10.102. MANTOVANI (M5S). I welcome the proposal for a reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.102 (text 2) and G10.103 will not be put to the vote. I would ask Senator Mantovani if he also accepts the proposal for the rewording of the agenda G10.104 (text 2). MANTOVANI (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.104 (text 3) will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 10.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.1, tabled by Senator Richetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.0.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 10.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 10.0.3 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators, up to the words "in the new role". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 10.0.4 to 10.0.151 are therefore excluded. Amendment 10.0.38 has been withdrawn. Amendment 10.0.7 is unlikely, as regards amendment 10.0.8 (text 2), I would ask the President of the 5th Commission to give an opinion on the current reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u166	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u167	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.8 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.9 which is essentially the same as Amendment 10.0.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u170	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, on Amendment 10.0.10, which is identical to the previous amendment, which has received favourable opinions from the Ministries in the Commission, but which has been declared impossible under Article 81 of the Constitution, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to be able to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u173	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I agree with the request made by Senator De Petris and wonder if it is possible to turn Amendment 10.0.9 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u174	I would ask the rapporteur to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u175	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u176	Mr President, the Government accepts the agendas G10.0.9 and G10.0.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u177	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.0.9 and G10.0.10 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 10.0.11 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 10.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.12 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.13 tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.0.14 to 10.0.21 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.22, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.0.26 to 10.0.34 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment 10.0.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.35, tabled by Senator Angrisani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.0.36 and 10.0.37 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.39 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u178	Mr President, I am in favour of amendments 11,200, 11.0,100, 11.0,1000 and 11.0.7. I am against Amendment 11.1 if it is not withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u179	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u180	Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to make the point that I have already made in the Commission: that a slum can fall under the heading of an article of a decree-law to me seems strange. Perhaps a more suitable term could be identified. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 11,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Quagliariello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 11.0.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 11.0.1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 11.0.2 to 11.0.6 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 11.0.7 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us resume the examination of amendment 4.26, which was previously put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u183	Mr Bergamini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, with regard to amendment 4.26, first signed by Senator Garavini, in the face of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, the Government is committed to rapidly establishing a table with the Special Commissioner for Emergency, General Figlio, in order to arrive at a timely resolution of the problem that was raised by Senator Garavini and then collected by Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u184	Senator Garavini, do you withdraw the amendment to turn it into an agenda that concretely commits the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u185	Mr President, having taken note of the Government's commitment, I would like to thank my colleagues who have made themselves available to support the amendment and withdraw it, appreciating the fact that we are trying very quickly to respond to the proposed motion, precisely because in theory it should already be implemented. The fact that it is not yet so, more than two weeks after the deadline, makes it necessary for the table to be implemented as soon as possible, precisely because of the interest not only of our compatriots temporarily in Italy, but clearly of the whole citizenship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u186	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u189	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, a few weeks after the entry into force of this decree-law, we can say that the prudent approach of Minister Hope and President Draghi on the period after Easter has led to good results: the contagions have dropped, the pressure on intensive therapies has decreased and also the vaccination campaign is progressing. It is understandable that the request for more openings comes, if not for a real cancellation of the restrictions. Despite the euphoria, we must continue on the path of reasoned risk, of step by step. The differences between the regions, on which we have insisted from the beginning, must be maintained, even if with a change of the criteria. It is right to pass the RT to give more weight to criteria such as the maintenance of the health system and the vaccination index. In addition, the green pass must finally be used for access to closed places. Honestly, we do not understand why being vaccinated, cured or tested is valid for foreigners who from May 15 will want to come to Italy, but not for other activities. As we know, the European green pass will be the means for free movement between our countries. It's good if everyone gets used to this new tool using it then also for accessing closed places. Furthermore, we must not forget that the green pass is an impulse to screening for the vaccine. As Israel shows, if we are to achieve flock immunity, we must create incentives for the vaccine and promote information campaigns to counter the fake news circulating on the Net. The vaccination obligation can only be an extreme solution. It is different when it comes to health workers, who have a moral duty to vaccinate in order to protect the patients with whom they are in contact: it is therefore worthwhile the vaccination obligation for them. Unfortunately, although it has already taken place since April, there are still 85,000 operators who have not immunized themselves. The practical difficulties in enforcing this commitment are also heavy: the decree-law provides for too much bureaucracy and too many loopholes, and there is to be feared an avalanche of appeals before the end of the vaccination campaign. Above all, there is a risk that in the RSA and hospitals many operators will go on leave to avoid the vaccine. This is why a vaccination obligation should be introduced not only for the pandemic emergency phase. A healthcare professional who does not believe in science and medicine is a contradiction in itself. On the criminal shield I think that, already with the rules in force, every magistrate would have assessed the emergency circumstances in which the subject acted. After all, whenever there is talk of criminal shields it is a failure of the judicial system, but it is good that a mediation has been found that reassures the health personnel, as the president of the national order of doctors Anelli has emphasized. Mr President, this is the decree-law with which primary and childhood schools have reopened also in the regions in the red zone. I would like to remind you that, at the time we were a few weeks ago, it was not an easy choice, but it was right. Now we need a gradual policy of openings and not a "free all" as someone has lived over the past weekend. It is very positive that Germany and Austria are also anticipating the times of the European green pass by removing the quarantine obligation already in the next few days, but this will only produce results for Italian tourism if we continue to be a low-risk country. It is with this hope that I will announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies to the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u192	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and senators, with Decree-Law No. 44, which we are converting to law today, closes a period that has seen the government introduce rules for the management of the emergency phase, especially with regard to the first part of the decree-law, which paid attention to the restrictions on the population from 7 to 30 April; restrictions that - as we have seen today - have produced important results with regard to the decrease of the contagion index, the data of health structures and also the number of deaths. This measure had the fundamental aspect of defining even more of the paths of attention for health protection in everyday life. School and educational activities were divided among those possible in the presence - I am referring to educational services and childhood schools - and other years of education such as the first grade secondary school that, depending on the red or orange areas that characterized our country, could be carried out in presence or not. The measure also dealt with other aspects of major importance, such as the extension of the vaccination obligation to those who work in the professions of health interest, including in socio-health and social welfare structures, both public and private. This is an important signal, because the issue is not to open a debate on the vaccination obligation, as some have done in a colourful way within Parliament. The vaccination must be encouraged. The theme is not to leave freedom, but to encourage vaccination and the imposition of obligations within health and social health structures goes in the interests of health and social and health workers, as well as those of citizens who must go within those structures to cure themselves or to undergo other benefits. Let us therefore welcome these rules which strengthen the credibility of the country and of our activities to protect public health. It is important to have introduced rules which also concern evaluation for medical staff. Our Group has expressed different positions on this point, but there is still a rule that introduces particular attention, providing a limitation to punishable. We have discussed whether it should be more or less stringent than the formula that has been laid down; but in any case it introduces a principle whereby for the criminality of medical personnel there must be serious fault and the facts that fall within the penal code must find cause in the actions that concern the emergency connected to the phase of explosion of the virus and the treatment of the same in the health structures. It is also important to have introduced - and I believe that this is a merit note to be written to the rapporteur, because that article has been improved - the rules on administrative simplification, especially for the completion of competitions that - thanks also to the amendment of the rapporteur, to whom I should like to thank him - will take greater account of the qualifications and, therefore, go in the direction of the protection of many young people who acquire a degree even in a short time but who are often limited and penalized during the competition. The amendment opens up a perspective for the most deserving young people, with qualifications obtained in a short time and with important votes. This measure has opened a new phase. Now in the face of these norms, however, we must give intensity - and it is the push that Italy Viva also wants to give in the last few days - to a path of openness and revival of the country. In this sense, we had put the issue to the attention of the Commission - for example - with the amendment on the reopening of shopping centres, with the attention given to curfew. There is a need to give a strong impulse to a new path to relaunch the country through new openings. And all this concerns the malls, the swimming pools, more generally the sports facilities, the lightening of curfew, certainly always with a strong responsibility, because the virus still circulates and still produces death. But the numbers we have recorded in the last few days must be taken into account, especially with regard to the course of vaccinations that continues in a sustained way. We are, in fact, at over 24 million vaccines, with over 6 million people who have completed the cycle. There is still little, but there is a strong push and Commissioner Figlio in this sense is achieving important and hoped results and this must be recognized as merit both to him and to the government that has chosen him. In addition to the important data recorded on the vaccination side, today the foundation Gimbe has evidenced that in the last month the deaths have dropped by 15 percent and the number of admissions has halved, especially those in the intensive therapies, that are basically the central point of the trouble of the hospital structures, being few those present in our country, even if with the measures Covid of the last year have increased. This serves to say that there are all the conditions for a strong relaunch and to think of a phase two. The government in this sense is strongly committed because it seems to me that impulses have been given to increase even more the vaccination campaign with the opening to forty and fifty-year-olds, that it has wished and on which the Commissioner Son is working. And then attention was also paid by the President of the Council in the past days on the need to open our country especially to tourists and people from abroad. The green pass is a theme we will hear about in the next few days and it is fundamental because we must give the image of a country that starts again and is relaunched. It does not mean closing your eyes to the problems that the virus still causes in our country; the danger of the Covid-19 has not passed, but certainly the current one is a new phase: compared to a year ago the vaccination cycle goes on; we have more immunized both because they have completed the vaccination cycle, and because in the past months they have contracted the virus; and we have signs of awakening the economy. On this level Italy Viva will give its contribution, as it has given it in the elaboration and improvement of the decree-law under consideration. We are convinced that the Government will play its part in the coming weeks and for this reason we vote with conviction the conversion into law of Decree No. 44 and we will fight the future battles to revive our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u195	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, thank you for leading this House into a truly unenviable situation. It is a strange way of looking at what the House and its colleagues are doing in an emergency which I believe has not been the same since the post-war period in an atmosphere of apparent disinterest or, in any case, inadequate involvement of their attention. It is not a cramp, but a bitter observation that is immediately brought back to the circumstance, repeatedly denounced by all and by us first, that these measures do not make us protagonists, aware and, in most cases, educated of what we are approving. We are doing this hard in the Commission; we are not doing it at all in this House. I would therefore also like to express my full sympathy with the Presidency, which has to deal with such measures. Another moral understanding is for the majority of our colleagues, who are forced to vote with conviction and enthusiasm. All these adjectives frankly do not understand and, above all, do not coincide with the numerous statements and interventions that, on the other hand, contradict a supposed conviction. The measure under consideration is based on all the measures of the damn emergency that we have been engaged in in the last fifteen months. It is a measure that comes from the government in a virtually ineminable way. It is only the Government itself that acts, sometimes, with its own measures and this is an absolutely censorable subject. Then there are obvious errors that will be challenged and appealable relative to the action for appeals that will undoubtedly come and that will find easy to grasp in the enormous and gigantic ways of working and compiling texts. This morning we dealt with a number of them in the question referred for a preliminary ruling. It refers to a DPCM which expired on 6 April which, as such, does not have any effect. The measure acts on gigantic issues that engage the debate of the scientific community and civil society for years, such as that of vaccination obligation. Think of the whole battle of the so-called no vax. And someone was in here, too, but then, as a result of what's happening, he disappeared like snow in the sun. These are issues that have basically been addressed and have filled the pages of the newspapers and also the chronicles. You will also remember violent manifestations, which claimed the sacred right to choose whether to vaccinate or not. Today we, probably unaware, in some cases, even of ourselves - sometimes we also act in dissension from ourselves - have decided that there is a vaccination obligation at least for the health care staff. Colleagues, you have decided this today, and I say this because we do not vote for this measure. On the contrary, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of this passage to announce Brothers of Italy's vote against this text. You are now sanctioned, established, by voting on this measure, that in Italy, in spite of all its legal and judicial system and the European treaties signed, there is a vaccination obligation for health workers, penalty being sent home without salary. And this is a measure that will be challenged by the first ordinary labour judge. And the measure will be burned in the burning of ignorance, in the burning of the superficiality with which certain texts are proposed by the Government and fired by the House. However, we have, ladies and gentlemen, although we have probably not noticed it, put our hands on another subject which has involved civil society and the scientific community, especially the health community, which is medical responsibility. We create a precedent and, in this case, we do so with an amendment from the Government. Although there are a number of obscure points - on which I thank Mr Balboni, as always, for his comments - this amendment has seen us very much in doubt whether to vote on it or not. All in all, however, the issue had to be addressed and the health workers had to be shielded, who, if it had not existed, would have been caught up in numerous judicial stumbles. You know that there is already so-called defensive medicine, which is a serious damage to the freedom of care and judgment of our healthcare professionals. He obviously expected a more comprehensive measure, a more serious measure, and above all a more serious debate, which would have been at least appropriate on this occasion, with the necessary time. After that, the right objections of forces that stand in the government or participate in this majority also sound badly, when they admit, confess or even denounce in this House that there has been insufficient time to avoid making mistakes even in the compilation of texts. All this tastes like crocodile tears. In my opinion, even more so in the presence and in the presence of what is happening in the country, each of us, apart from political reason or belonging to an incomprehensible majority, should have the doubt that, where there is an epidemic that still kills today, it is absolutely irrelevant that we cannot object to something that is not shared. We believe that those who sit between these benches have an obligation to represent precisely the opposite objections, because we sincerely do not need the favourable objections in this House, since for those there are the government and the majority, who vote pedestically on the basis of the instructions of the Commission. As has already been said during the examination of the amendments, I would like to remind everyone that we are administering vaccines (including ourselves, since many of us have already received them) in an experimental way. Why can't an obligation arise? Vaccines are all in experimental form, using the conditional marketing authorisation method provided for in Article 14 of Regulation No 726 of 2004. This is an authorisation conditional on a trial period. By virtue of this, to provide that health workers who are not vaccinated and cannot be reemployed in another job should be thrown at home and no longer paid is something that is disgusting. This aspect will certainly be the subject of the judgment of the first judge who will be called upon to give a ruling on this matter. Colleagues, we need another piece of responsibility and - as we have been saying for a long time - we also need another minister. Pfizer says that the second dose of the vaccine should be administered after twenty-one days, while a regional council member (even of a region as important as Lazio) says, literally, that every host tells about his wine. In a condition like the present one in which so many people are waiting for certainties, speaking in these terms is truly outrageous. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know what else we need. None of us is unaware of the urgency of a different and further step, which we hope will become apparent in the coming days. With regard to this, Brothers of Italy will never fail their constructive contribution, as they tried to do with the measure under consideration, unfortunately with little success, but not because of their fault. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u198	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, today we are called for the conversion vote of Decree-Law No 44, also created to react to the pandemic and its effects in the various sectors of collective life. As stated by those who intervened before me, the decree-law under consideration contains measures to ensure that the emergency of the pandemic can find a response from the point of view of the recovery of school activity and the guarantees to be provided to the vaccine workers. An important guarantee to avoid a limitless legalization is that of the criminal shield instrument, ensuring that there is no juspenalistic responsibility where the vaccineers have complied with the protocols. Clearly this is not just any rule, as it allows our health care system to function, take measures, have proportions and put in place what is needed when there is an epidemic: vaccination. One issue was the vaccine; another issue is vaccination; another problematic level is how to allow vaccineers to vaccinate. This makes a legal reflection, nourished from the point of view of political, cultural sensitivity and of the overall vision. With the decree-law under consideration, we allow vaccine workers the criminal shield on condition, however, that the terms of the protocol are respected. Similarly, another element of guarantee is determined: that vaccination is compulsory for those who are in charge of the health service. This is what the legislator does: norm. Norma is not the proper name of a person, even if I know a woman called Alfida Norma; norm is equivalent to the level of virtue. A system, when it encounters the breakup of civilization, produces a level of recovery of virtuous conduct giving rise to the norm. The rule organizes its operation with the sanction and with the recognition, with the premiality. We must ensure that vaccine workers and health workers are aware of the requirement to immunise themselves in order to prevent the system from crashing. This measure also raises the question of the functioning of another fundamental element: justice, jurisdiction. Can a society and an order live and regain vitality if jurisdiction is blocked? Decree-Law No 44 of 2021 also raises the issue of how to recover the full functionality of jurisdiction. There are areas of jurisdiction where frontality is fundamental. I have been a successful user of civil, administrative and criminal justice; frontality is fundamental (in addition to documentary) and the measure under consideration is also on this front, i.e. how to react by organising operating guarantees. What I am most concerned - and that is why I thanked the Group of the European People's Party - is the initiatives contained in the measure to ensure that the supply of human resources by the public administration starts again. We are one of the last countries in the relationship between human resources employed in public administration and the number of general employees. We are the country with the least amount of human resources employed in public administration. We need to bring about a recovery of skills, numbers, training opportunities and skills, so that all measures contained for economic reactivation find in the public administration the adequacy and capacity. The decree-law that we are about to convert provides flexibility and facilities, making it possible - for example - that, alongside the examination committee for the provision of resources by a public administration, there are also sub-committees and decentralised bodies. There is the possibility of making sure that the previous training period is also valued. It is a choice of field: never again quiz at random, with discernments of casual awareness, that perhaps in the past selected the engineer who had to deal with works of art (not the works of artistic beauty, but the bridges, the viaducts, the galleries). What does an engineer do with it, if he needs to know how to do this, whether or not to know - for example - Garibaldi's marriage date? It is clear that the quiz, built on the genericity of the general culture, will no longer give rise to the selection of engineers, but there will be a correspondence, a selective consistency, so that the activity of identifying the deserving is consistent with the subsequent activity that the deserving one must put in place. Sure, that's not all. We must continue to work, making sure that the construction site of public administration reforms is opened: continuous training, use of technology, smart working, having verified workloads and allowing, downstream, to find results; less technical assistance from outside, more production of expertise within public administration spaces. We create the deputy manager, the sole head of the procedure (RUP), the high responsibility that allows the financial resource to become objective, achieved goal. We're not in this condition today, but we can get there. This decree-law raises the question with ambition, with adequacy. I want to address the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration Brunetta: this is the right time. It is in the face of the broken civilizations that the best reform efforts are being made. The cities of our Europe have been able to react adequately during the pestilence phase. What we have suffered with the pandemic gives us the opportunity to question and really find the way out. In our public administration we can find the ability to make sure that really the wheel of the economy starts to spin again. We have something like EUR 240 billion that needs to be sung. We need figures, skills, adjustments. We need to know that our public administration has the ability to do, but we need to keep paying attention. It is for this reason that the Democratic Party has defended and also improved the measure in the investigation activity in the Commission. And it is for this reason that I am intervening with such expressions, saying that this is an important point, that it does not exhaust all that there is to do, but it opens a dispute, a construction site, through which we can make modern our public administration, allowing also exchanges between public and private, with a kind of Erasmus, ensuring that what we learn in private, from an organizational point of view, goes also to the places of work of the public administration. It has been done elsewhere and it can also be done in Italy. Some cities are experiencing this capacity for dialogue and I believe that the whole country system can do so if we make this field choice. With this will and with this reasoning, in conclusion, I announce and communicate the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u201	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, there have been a great many decree-laws that have been put to our attention since the important decision, which has given Parliament power again, to use not only the DMCs - then also the decree-law, because there had already been this process of change - but also, for all restrictive requirements, rules of primary rank. As with all the similar decree-laws that we have examined in this House, for one part we are called upon to convert rules which have already exhausted their effect. I would like to point out here that the first part of the decree before us - in particular all the indications and requirements of Article 1 - was exhausted on 30 April. Obviously this can only be so, because we are in the process of converting the decree-law. I wanted to make this argument, recalling many of the polemics that we left behind, with which we complained a total expropriation of the executive power towards Parliament. As you can see in establishing prescriptive rules and restrictions of certain freedoms and as you can see also with the decree-law at our examination, the problem is solved only in part, because today the Senate and even more the Chamber of Deputies find themselves discussing a decree-law that, for one part, has already exhausted its effects, because the rules were in force until 30 April. The decree-law then intervenes on some very sensitive aspects and I do not want to hide behind the issues that emerged in the debate in the Commission and also in this House and I want to address them directly, for what they are. I am thinking of the question of the introduction of the vaccination obligation: as you know, the current government, as well as the previous one, has made an absolutely fair choice, namely not to resort to the vaccination obligation because our Constitution only in some particular cases can provide for an obligation of health treatment. Why then do we intervene in Article 4 with the vaccination obligation? We do this for health workers, all the social workers and health professionals who obviously have contact with the sick and the citizens and must absolutely ensure that they are not a means of transmission. We've had cases that have caused a lot of discussion. Of course, this is always a very sensitive issue and Parliament must therefore always examine it with particular care. It is also clear that with these rules decisions are taken which produce the fact that there is in some way a sanctioning form, in the sense that those who refuse to immunise themselves are subjected to an internal mobility system. I do not want to pick up on the obvious delicacy of this issue, but to ensure the health of the citizens, I believe that this was a right choice. I would like to point out that there is another sensitive element in Article 3 because, as far as vaccine workers are concerned, it is not punishable, if, of course, they comply with all the protocols for vaccination itself, and I think that is absolutely right. We have made a great appeal, we have made bans, we have mobilized the best resources in the country to which we have asked to help in the vaccination campaign. As we will see also after with the agenda, we are very passionate about the debate on openings and closures, shopping centres, weddings and curfew, but we all know that the real challenge we face - and this should be clear for everyone, sometimes putting aside the controversy - is vaccination, the success of the vaccination campaign. On this I say that there is still a lot to be done and to produce further acceleration because this means that, beyond the reasoned risk, it will allow us to predict and make a schedule of reopenings in safety. And that is crucial. On the vaccination campaign there are still in some way problems related in particular to the same issue of the supply of vaccines, to the choices that have also been made at European level with contracts, on which it is useless to continue to ignore anything: someone has spoken of a mess, I say that it was probably not even random to conclude contracts without sanctioning clauses. At the same European Union summit last week, at which we all expected a clear and unequivocal statement on the issue of patent suspension, this - alas - was not there, despite, as far as Italy in particular is concerned, four times Parliament has spoken to commit the Government to this and the Commission has taken steps from this point of view. It is not by chance - in my view - that there has been much lukewarmness and even an explicit veto of Germany. The challenge before us is therefore that of the vaccination campaign. Coming to another issue, we have also dealt with a very important issue which Mr D'Alfonso mentioned just now: I am talking about the issue of competitions now. We must be clear that the initial text of the decree-law has also been modified by an amendment by the rapporteur and we have welcomed the changes made to the initial text of the decree itself, because there was a problem in it, which is among other things the problem of the public administration and the country: there was even the danger of limiting or preventing the access of young people to competitions, while the great challenge facing us is precisely this. In the reworded text, which fortunately we approved earlier, it is clear that the titles are somehow assimilated to the pre-selection system only in the cases of the highly specialised technical management and, of course, this is absolutely fundamental. The great challenge that must accompany us, also because we have before us the issue of the implementation of the PNRR, is to reform the public administration. But when I talk about reforming - it's the issue we've been obsessively pursuing for more than a year - I'm finally going to get a lot of high-skilled staff into public administration, young people and qualified figures. This is the new season we have to open. That is the beginning of this decree, but I believe that we must quickly come to a reform of recruitment in public administration by speeding up young people and qualifications, because we are too far behind and we must quickly catch up on lost time. For this reason, I am voting in favour of the Senators of the Leu component and part of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u204	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decline in infection and, above all, in death, as well as all the other indices of data that are gradually improving, shows what should have been obvious to all: the country is engaged in a choral effort, finally harmonious, to combat the pandemic. The greatest merit of this decree is the centrality it gives to vaccines after the rewriting of a plan that finally imposed the need to accelerate with the administrations. We are therefore all the more pleased to have seen three of our battle horses immediately followed by the effectiveness and pervasiveness of the vaccination campaign. I would like to start from what is particularly dear to me, having presented a special bill on compulsory vaccination for healthcare professionals working in contact with patients. I am grateful to the Government for introducing this rule by decree, so as to speed up the long time of the parliamentary process. It is not conceivable that those who have as a professional mission to save lives risk instead of endangering the health of patients, perhaps lighting up outbreaks in the places of care. [[Applause]] Some pockets of resistance, unfortunately, are still there. I won't lose a second to convince these people of the great privilege they don't even know they have, but I'll use one to tell them that they don't deserve to wear the coat and leave it to those who are not afraid and without hesitation are increasingly in the trenches to defend the health of the most fragile. [[Applause]] And I'm talking about a privilege that millions of people can't and can't afford, just because destiny has given birth to them at different latitudes, where there are still 4,000 deaths every 24 hours, as in India today, we're talking about three deaths per minute. A principle of civilization has passed, according to which the freedom not to vaccinate, which also exists, finds a limit in the right of others not to contract the Covid. In this way a great service has been done to the country. It is the affirmation of rationality about ideology, about science about the absurd and harmful no vax theories that, unfortunately, have sometimes been favored in this House too. We have finally moved from the aiding of absurd propaganda on the granting of spaces and the right of stand within Parliament to the obligation of vaccination. On one of our agendas, we have also partially unblocked the problem of doctors who, in order to vaccinate, should have lost their right to retirement. With this initiative instead retired doctors will be encouraged to vaccinate [[Applause]] ; a further contribution to strengthen the vaccination campaign, because we need so many vaccines, but also so many vaccineers. [[Applause]] In this regard, I would like to thank the thousands of nurses, doctors, health workers, the military, police officers and all the volunteers who have never stopped. [[Applause]] , that they have not known the smart working and that they serve to guarantee the safety of the people and the supplyings of the vaccines, that once again have been decisive in order to guarantee the survival of our nation. A separate chapter also deserves the so-called criminal shield for health workers, since always a great battle of the Senators of Forza Italia. I warmly thank Secretary Sisto for his enormous contribution on this subject. [[Applause]] , which has then become fortunately also a great battle of all. One could not remain indifferent to those who, with a noble choice, risked their lives to save others. We couldn't ignore it and we couldn't leave them alone. [[Applause]] Ignoring that the pandemic, especially in its most dramatic phases, needed an advanced level of responsibility compared to the ordinary one would have been a gesture of pure irresponsibility and unprecedented institutional cynicism. With this rule health professionals will be punished only if death or injury will be attributed to gross negligence. It is also a rule that allows for reasonable management of crime reports on the part of the prosecutors, excluding automatisms that often turn out to be only harmful to the operator. It is a rule that overcomes the fear of action, which defeats the pathology of defensive medicine, freeing doctors and nurses from the fear of intervening. It is a rule that avoids what would have been a useless process and media clamor, and of media process unfortunately often dies. Finally, it is regrettable that in this context of great synergy between history, law and Parliament, there has been a demeaning race for the appropriation of this amendment as if it were the flag in turn. For Forza Italia what mattered were the doctors, the nurses, those who lost their lives - and there are not few - those who got sick by healing, and there are so many. We also dedicate our smile to them because for us it does not matter who arrives first, but it is important to protect those who are last. [[Applause]] Then there is the chapter of recruitment in the public administration. Thanks to Minister Brunetta the season of 19th century competitions has ended; no more paper and pen: a single digital written test and an oral one. The selections have finally been unlocked, simplified, digitized and even speeded. Before a contest could last up to four years, now at most a hundred days. It is a reform on the side of young people and the value of training, skills, but also on the side of citizens and businesses that deserve quality public services. We will never tire of remembering this: a functioning public administration is the best weapon against inequalities. Operations, such as those of the competition course in Campania, have not done a good service to the young people concerned, nor to the administrations that await recruitment. We want to say this loud and clear: we do not play on the work of young people, we do not make fun of citizens, we do not advocate the violation of the rules governing public administration because of promises that cannot be kept. [[Applause]] Now let's go ahead and look at the next steps. If scientific data allow us to do so, we have a duty to restore freedom to people; not only individual freedom, but also freedom to work, that is to say to keep oneself and the family; freedom to travel and to resume sociality. [[Applause]] And this will be made possible thanks to the effort we are making for a widespread vaccination campaign. Now there are logistics and organization, hubs and vaccination centers throughout the national territory. The goal of the 500,000 vaccinations, which seemed like a mirage, was not only attainable, but today it has also been exceeded. From next week, vaccinations will begin for 40 years, then they will start dosing in pharmacies and finally in the workplace, as we have been asking for a long time. [[Applause]] After months of clashes and oppositions between the Regions, political speculations that have not been taken away from some party of the majority, a climate of collaboration has finally been created, which allows not to waste the doses and to rationalise the distribution on the national territory. It is thanks to this that we can loudly ask to eliminate the curfew as soon as possible, to reopen safely, where possible, even the activities still closed [[Applause]] We are calling for the shopping centers to work on weekends as well and to plan the restarting of sectors that do not yet have a certain date and that need organization and planning. It is with these perspectives, with this common intention for the future good of the country, that I announce the favorable vote of Forza Italia to a measure that has allowed and will still allow us to approach as soon as possible to a return to normality, making Italy safer also from the health point of view. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u207	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before dealing with the substance of this decree-law, I would like to refer to the way in which Parliament worked during the conversion phase of the decree itself. We have joined the majority in order to ensure that the previous majority does not give birth to a count-b and we have certainly made some progress. We are faced with legal decrees and no longer with decrees of the President of the Council: it is the right path and it is the road that marks the sense of our participation in this majority. [[Applause]] However, it is not yet enough, because it must be clear to the Government that if the decree-law is adopted, the style cannot be that of the decree of the President of the Council. This Parliament, during the conversion phase, has worked badly; we have been forced to pursue constantly changing amendments and sub-amendments, putting us in clear difficulty, making it difficult to understand the texts. I appeal to the Minister for relations with Parliament, because it is his job to ensure that the relationship between the Government and Parliament takes place within a principle of loyal cooperation: this is very important. So, yes, the road is right, but more can be done to restore centrality to the Italian Parliament. We come to the merit of the decree-law, a provision that contains heterogeneous aspects and also this must be emphasized. The criminal shield that my colleagues have already mentioned is very welcome, but I would like to draw attention to one aspect of the criminal shield, without entering into the technical analysis of the rule. Shield means defence, but from whom must we defend the angels who have assisted us, who have saved our lives, who have saved us at the cost of their own lives? Who do we have to defend them from? Alas, we do not hide behind a finger; obviously we must defend them from the judiciary, from investigations. [[Applause]] We must understand that, if we need to introduce a criminal shield, there is obviously something that does not work properly in the administration of justice, because we are not asking to exempt those who acted badly from responsibility. Let us not forget that criminal liability is based on a judgment of rebukeability: this is the essence, at least of guilt. But what rebuke can we give to those who find themselves, perhaps with bare hands, because in the beginning it went so, to counter an invisible enemy who does not know, without protocols, without indications or with contradictory indications? And we have to "scud" - excuse the use of a term that I find horrible in Italian - these people at risk of being investigated? Perhaps we should give more thought to this issue; perhaps the introduction of the criminal shield tells us that we need to look at justice carefully, because attention also means analysing problems and looking at them in the face. A great deal of respect for the judiciary, but obviously something does not work and it is our job, it is this Parliament's task, to find the causes and, with balance, with respect for one of the fundamental powers of the State, to intervene so that the three powers of the State can work in harmony. As far as public administration is concerned, it is time to speed up competitions, but it is also time to intervene on positive administrative law in order to make it clearer, simpler, more understandable; also on this front the decree-law contains a cue, a signal, an indication; it gives us the route to follow from here to the next few months. The vaccination obligation is a very delicate subject. Article 32 of the Constitution provides that health treatments may, by law, be made compulsory, but we also realize that we are facing recently introduced vaccines. It is a point of balance; what we have before us is extremely delicate and this is the reason that led the League to leave freedom of conscience on the issue. I personally vaccine myself, consider vaccines important and claim my freedom of choice as an important choice for the future of the country, but always with the utmost respect for the choices of others. There is still a reference to the rule that allows the competition to take place in the judiciary; a rule that may seem less important, but that I personally, on the other hand, take as linked to the criminal shield. This rule provides for the conduct of the competition in simplified mode: not three tests, but two, and - very important - provides that the tests are carried out not in eight but in four hours, and the candidate is required to be able to synthesise. Well, I believe that this competitive mode can be used in the future to carry out at least one test, because the ability to synthesis is a signal of intelligence, is a signal of the ability to understand the concepts and principles and to manage those principles that, if well applied, would not make the criminal shield necessary. On behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I therefore vote in favour. [[Applause.]] (17.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u208	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u210	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about another measure to contain the Covid-19, with the aim, already carried out by the Count Government, to control the infection and control more and more the spread of the virus; in short, to protect public health. Often, in fact, someone in this House seems to forget that the objective of the government and of all of us must be to protect the health of citizens because, as we have said so many times, without health protection there will never be economic recovery. Today we are talking about reopenings, moving curfew hours, and we can do so thanks to the improvement of the data of the infection and the employment indices of intensive therapies, thanks to the vaccines and the vaccination campaign that is going on. We must not, however, forget that all this must take place gradually and gradually, in order to ensure that they are finally reopened and reasoned, not the result of uplifting and political propaganda. This process cannot and must not be linked to abrupt accelerations under the pressure of electoral ads or unfavorable polls, but must be part of a project and a path commensurate - this is true - with objective and scientific data. One of the measures that is reiterated in the decree-law under consideration is the absolute necessity and improrogability, as always supported first by Minister Azzolina and then by our undersecretary Floridia, to bring back the school activities in presence, starting from the early childhood schools until the first medium, and for the high schools from 50% to 75% in presence in the orange area, thus reserving the teaching at a distance only to particularly critical situations and for periods of time however limited. A fundamental choice, because it is right that the first to return to normal - where possible - are our boys. It is clear that the openings of schools must be implemented with the appropriate and irreplaceable means of security and protection of staff and students. On the other hand, as can be seen from a large national clinical study proposed by the Italian society of pediatrics, it is confirmed that most of the infections from Covid-19 in children take place in the family context and certainly not in school. It is important, however, for the purposes of contagion for children and teenagers is the failure to comply with the recommended anti-Covid behavioral norms that occur in the extracurricular contexts and the modes of use of the means of transport, the latter burdened moreover by another factor of promiscuity and overcrowding for the limited number of vehicles and races available, if compared to the load of travelers. Another fundamental aspect of this decree-law is the rules that exclude the criminal liability of health personnel engaged in the vaccination campaign for manslaughter and manslaughter personal injuries. It was essential to legislate in this respect. It is necessary that this measure has retroactive effect in respect of cases which have already occurred, provided that the use of the vaccine has been in accordance with the indications contained in the marketing authorisation measure. It is a necessary act to give serenity and security to all those who have voluntarily joined this vaccination campaign, despite the many environmental difficulties and the internal and external pressures that accompany it. It is not enough to call them heroes in words and speeches, but concrete and tangible signals are needed. [[Applause]] the right recognition due to their self-denial and their sense of responsibility. If you sign contracts for manufacturers, as the European Commissioner for Health has done, in which contractual clauses are accepted that disclaim from all responsibility the manufacturer after the simple delivery of the vaccination doses, you cannot discharge to health professionals the costs and consequences resulting from any damage or side effects linked to the administration of vaccines. In this sense, another huge step forward was made thanks to an amendment wanted by the 5-star Movimento, at the first signature of Senator Evangelista, approved in the Commission, so during the state of epidemiological emergency by Sars-Cov-2 [[Applause]] the facts referred to in Articles 589 and 590 of the Criminal Code committed in the exercise of a health profession and which find cause in the emergency situation will be punishable only in cases of serious misconduct. We are talking about a fundamental aspect, because our healthcare professionals have been confronted with an unknown virus, with means that are not always adequate and certainly not because of them. The criminal shield is a measure, in my opinion, just and particularly awaited, which represents an important signal to those who have been engaged in the front line. Another important achievement, achieved thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, is the amendment amending the Brunetta rule on public competitions, which blocked access especially to young graduates. Thanks to our change, the titles and professional experience will weigh on the final score only to a maximum of one third. All this in order to avoid that in the drafting of the final ranking there is a disproportion between the value assigned to the securities and the service and that obtained instead in the competitive test. We of the Movimento 5 Stars have heard the alarm of the many young and less young competitionists who risked being cut off from the competitions because of a rule on which the same Government has understood how necessary a deep rethinking. The Movimento 5 Stars has always fought to protect the merit and the result achieved goes in this direction. Finally, there is a vaccination obligation for healthcare professionals, subject to the conditions under which such an obligation constitutes an established danger to the health of the operator. In my opinion this passage is indispensable for two fundamental reasons: first of all to protect the operator himself, for the risk of being able to become infected in the performance of his duties and his profession; secondly it represents a condition sine qua non because he himself, because of the close interpersonal contacts during his daily activity, can favor the contagion. The prevention of diffusion also goes through the protection of personnel, with their complete vaccine coverage, for the protection of them, of course, but of course also of those who benefit from their skills, availability and professionalism. The success of the vaccination campaign and the victory over the virus are gradually built, with the contribution of all, each for its part, small or large. In reaffirming this concept it is obvious and consequent the need to have sufficient doses of vaccine for all countries. The 5 Star Movement strongly calls for Italy to promote and demand temporary suspension of vaccine patents in Europe [[Applause]] Moreover, this measure has also been reiterated by the President of the United States; a request, the latter, no longer differs. We are experiencing a pandemic; therefore, exceptional measures are needed to counter it. Only if an increase in the production of vaccine doses is achieved can a successful worldwide vaccination campaign be carried out. Vaccines must be a right of all, not a privilege of a few. Only if everyone is protected will each of us be protected. On all the measures that put the health of citizens first, the protection of work, the protection of rights, the attention to fragile people in difficulty or that respect the values and objectives for which the Movimento 5 Stars has always fought with strength and courage, we have and are ready to give our contribution to lived experiences, skills acquired and social solidarity. We must look with due respect to the commitment of those who work every day even in silence and without proclamations. Our political strength is with them, with the citizens and for the citizens. Without controversy, we must be concrete and think only about their good and the collective growth of our country. Announcement therefore the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u211	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u212	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u213	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, of course we must take into account - and we have done so - that we are in an exceptional world pandemic which has justified confusion and uncertainty of initial management over many and perhaps too many things. This uncertainty is no longer tolerable today, one and a half years after the beginning of the health emergency declaration and cannot be tolerated now that it comes from the so-called government of the best, of national emergency, of all and of no one. I shall vote against this measure for various reasons: certainly for the measures for the conduct of public competitions, referred to in Article 10, which have not been completely resolved by the rapporteur's amendment. But there are two other things that I would like to dwell on; I would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur for the excellent work they have done on this subject. I press - and it is necessary as well as necessary - that Sunday my son voluntarily vaccinated with AstraZeneca is that tomorrow I will be vaccinated by age group with Pfizer. This does not mean that the vaccination obligation, especially in a situation of such scientific uncertainty, worries us, also because, as the norm is written, it is clearly thought of on a punitive basis, in violation, as has been said, of the resolution voted by a very large majority by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe n. 2361 of 2021. The situation is aggravated by the fact that all vaccines have been approved by the so-called conditional authorisation method (Article 7 (7) of European Regulation No 726 of 2004, which provides for derogation from the common prudential standards for testing). Experimentation by way of derogation, uncertainty and confusion are reiterated and emphasized by Articles 3 and 3-a as a condition that requires a necessity, the medical criminal shield by way of derogation not only for vaccine workers, but also for healthcare professionals. Mr President, serious blame is excluded - says the article - for the limited scientific knowledge, at the time of the fact, on the pathology of SARS-Cov-2 and on the appropriate therapies, and - but this is another issue - for the limited and scarce human and material resources available. Here we come to the responsibility of who caused this scarcity, almost all the political parties present in this majority. Since 2010 37 billion were taken from public health assessed as necessary. In 1980 we had 922 beds per 100,000 inhabitants; in 2017, only 275 beds. From 2009 to 2017 we lost 8,000 doctors and 13,000 nurses and I said everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u215	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u216	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, today we have missed an opportunity: we have missed the opportunity to expand the rights of Italians, to eliminate curfew immediately and to reopen all activities. Yet many forces of this majority in the country say they want this, but in here they vote against the amendments that could achieve these results. In the measure there is a vaccination obligation for health care, penalty for the suspension of the salary. Even in this case some forces of the majority have even tabled an amendment to remove the suspension of salary and sanctions, but then voted against. There is a criminal shield, for example, for vaccine workers for mild guilt. We are against this: if someone is wrong and does damage, even at this very particular time, he must pay. The principle of recruitment for public competition in the public administration is infringed. The titles are put before the exams, damaging the right of access to the public administration of the youngest and in favour of discretion and against merit. Then we have a gem, which perhaps none of you have realized that you voted. The master's degree in the sciences of religions has been equated with the master's degree in historical sciences and philosophical sciences. It means that those who teach religion can teach history and philosophy. It is an amendment signed by the PD. ( [[Comments of Senator Garnet).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u217	I can't figure out who Senator Garnet is mad at.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u218	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). I appeal to all those who voted in favour. This has nothing to do with it; it is a shameful thing and we shall also vote against it and say that we are ashamed of you, because you have not even read what you voted for.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u219	Senator Garnet, I didn't understand why you were upset. No one has understood it; it will remain a mystery. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 44 of 1 April 2021 on urgent measures for the containment of the outbreak from COVID-19, in the matter of vaccinations against SARS-CoV-2, of justice and public competitions". (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u220	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00353 by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, 1-00356 by Senator Bernini and other Senators, 1-00359 by Senator Malpezzi and other Senators, and 1-00361 by Senator Pharaoh and other Senators, on restrictions related to the emergency Covid-19. I call Senator Rauti to explain motion 353.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u221	Mr President, Fratelli d'Italia has tabled motion 353 on restrictions related to the Covid-19 emergency. The content of our motion has three fundamental points: reopening, freedom and security. The motions received by the Presidency, beyond ours, are three, by majority, but, as they say, there will be only one: it would be ours, of course. I have read, in fact, agency launches that talk about a withdrawal of majority motions and the presentation of an agenda of the same. We come to our motion, however, the one that will survive. The motion contains: abolition of curfew; elimination of that limit, still in force, of visits to relatives and friends (of course if made in safety); above all, reopening of all sports, commercial and cultural activities in compliance with safety protocols. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the government continues to fail to fulfil its commitments and to postpone decisions over time. We do not understand whether it is the line of the bishop Hope, the bishop of the restrictions, to prevail, along with that of the Movimento 5 Stars, or that of other souls, who would nevertheless want to remove curfew. One point, however, is clear to us and the Italians: curfew is an illegitimate, unconstitutional, liberticidal and useless measure, because, in order to contain the pandemic, it has no basis for scientific validation. The government continues to take time, instead of making decisions, which are the ones suggested by our motion. Postpone the reopenings and also the abolition of curfew. In fact, it's not pronounced. This is called passive expectation. It's not reasonable. Reasonableness would be to find, in forced coexistence with the virus of the Covid-19, a point of balance between freedom and security, between the right to health, the right to work and also the fundamental right not to die of hunger. Almost all political forces are calling for reopening. Today they have the opportunity to vote for our motion and to show that they really want to do so. It's easy. No more voting for or against. Already on 26 April last, an agenda against the curfew of Brothers of Italy sent in tilt the majority, which then presented a motion that committed the Government, which then did not commit itself. Even today there is a short circuit, because if the news of this agenda is true (but we will talk about it later), it would, as Minister D'Incà said in an interview, be your response to our motion. This means that it is the merit of Brothers of Italy if, in this Chamber, we discuss this; and also that the motion of Brothers of Italy is the answer to the needs of Italians that the Government obviously does not want to listen. So let's move on. I would also like to say the following. Remember when Manzoni had Chancellor Ferrer say, since his carriage was encircled by the people in turmoil by the famine after the plague epidemic, adelante, Pedro, adelante, but with judgment, if you can? Well, that distant image in time could be a useful metaphor today. What is certain, though, is that it is not adelante here. We all agree on reasonableness, but we went back a year ago, when, for example, without vaccines and in full pandemic, there was no curfew, we had lunch, we had dinner in and out of restaurants (without penalising those premises that do not have outdoor spaces) and above all we had not missed a million jobs. With regard to this, after a year and a half of restrictions, it is impossible and unacceptable to hold the Italians hostage with measures, prohibitions and restrictions that are killing our economy and today we will see who is on the side... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u222	Senator Rauti, you have no right, but we will gladly give you another minute as an act of courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u223	RAUTI (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. Today we will see who is on the side of the damaged companies and the Italians who are prisoners and hostage and who is not. You take responsibility. Italy does not start again unless it reopens everything, immediately and safely. If you proceed like this, other than Chancellor Ferrer: the metaphor will be that of the Brancaleone army that today says one thing and tomorrow another and above all proceeds without effectiveness and strategy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u224	I would like to say that the G1 agenda was presented by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh, Unterberger and Romans, whose text is being distributed, which is intended to be illustrated. Consequently, the motions have been withdrawn, as anticipated by Senator Rauti, nn. 356, 359 and 361. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u225	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as Mrs Rauti has already said and explained very well, we must return for the second time, after our motion at the end of April, to the issue of freedom and reasonableness, which unfortunately seems to us not to belong to this Government, which even, in some respects, seems to be lagging behind the previous governments. On the other hand, Mr Sileri - and I would like to address your Minister and your President of the Council - would have to be asked why so much stubbornness. We would like to know and understand why a person distant from us, but as intelligent as the secretary of the Democratic Party Letta, a few hours ago said on television that we will be able to overcome the curfew when technical and health values allow us to do so. Gentlemen, a fifth grade child understands that curfew is nothing more than a measure that favours the concentration of people and that, therefore, is against the decrease of the spread of the virus. How can you continue to be so stubborn? Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that if the Italians can go to the restaurant between 8.30 p.m. and 22 p.m. there will be much more crowding and that it would be better to allow them to go there until midnight? I don't think this is a Nobel Prize-winning intelligence! We are sorry that what the ordinary people, the people you find in the streets, you say you ignore, not to admit the mistakes you have been making for months, unfortunately behind the Italians and those entrepreneurs to whom you are not able to give real compensation, which, however, you keep closed, with the shutters lowered or however with limited capacity for work. It was not enough to manage the whole epidemic in bankruptcy, all year round of lockdowns; these lockdowns that - I want to remind our allies above all - have been more difficult, more numerous, heavier. But why? Do you not have the courage to look at the numbers of Sweden or Japan, to look at cities like Madrid? Why won't you admit that you've made a mistake? Why do you not admit, ladies and gentlemen, that your stubbornness is irrational and does not stand? You have renounced the primacy of politics, you have entrusted yourself only to technicians, when it is precisely the virologists and epidemiologists, who have made stars, to say everything and the opposite of everything. How can you give them the exclusivity of politics? Politics must have the merit of knowing how to take decisions that a country and an economic system can afford. Friends and colleagues, I appeal to you; allies, friends of the center-right, friends of the League, friends of Forza Italia, you must vote in favour of this motion: we must reopen. There's no alibi left. You cannot go to the streets by the entrepreneurs to say that we are with them and then, however, leave them closed. Let's think about the bars, the restaurants, the gyms, the operators of the legal game, which have been closed for a year. Everyone pretends not to notice this. Our motion - and I conclude, Mr President - calls for reasonableness and freedom. No curfew, it must be eliminated, today, now, all together. Let's just say the outdoor masks don't help, if there are distances. Let's say friends and relatives can go and see each other. Let us say that all activities can be reopened safely, because we are not able to support them and we must relaunch our country. Today or never, all together for Italy! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u226	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u227	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion expresses what are currently shared ideas, which are widely reflected, not only in public opinion, but also in the evaluations of experts who analyse the Italian epidemiological situation. The political forces that are responsible part of this Government want to contribute institutionally in support of the Country, directing governmental choices according to the interest of Italian citizens. The epidemiological situation from Covid-19 is recording encouraging signs of improvement in our country and all the data confirm this trend, as noted also by President Brusaferro of the Higher Institute of Health. Even as far as the immunity of our country is concerned, the vaccination campaign has started and is now on a regime, exceeding half a million vaccinations every day. In this context there are the conditions for a revision of the parameters adopted to date with reference to the spread index of the virus, which determine the changes in the colors of the Regions that, in the opinion of the majority of the Presidents of the Region, seem by now not reliable. There are conditions for a regular recovery of the Italian economy. It is all the more urgent and essential, with particular regard to activities such as bars, restaurants and the cultural sector, therefore the theatres, cinemas and live shows, and those of wedding and sports, with particular regard to swimming pools and gyms, as well as to the commercial, thematic and aquatic centers and parks, which have suffered major limitations, restrictions and closures greater than other sectors and which, with the necessary safety protocols, could reopen their activities immediately. In Italy, according to the current provisions, there is still a ban on movement from 10 p.m. to 5 p.m. the following morning. This restriction is causing considerable problems to the activities and sectors mentioned above, in particular to catering, and constitutes a considerable limitation on the personal freedom of our citizens, who throughout the period of the pandemic emergency have demonstrated an extraordinary sense of duty and attachment to democratic institutions. Today there are the conditions for assessing the overcoming of curfew, in line with what other European partners have done, to give a tangible signal of gradual return to normality, with positive and important repercussions in social terms and economic recovery. Also for this reason, we ask that the green pass release operations be enhanced and speeded up, proving the state of vaccination against Covid, the healing from infection or the carrying out of a rapid antigenic molecular test, with negative result. It is also necessary for our country to interpret, at European level, a common line, which includes uniform measures, in order not to create unequal treatment, which could lead to diseconomy of scale relating to tourist flows. It is important that you work to carry out vaccinations even in places of vacation. The Regions, in agreement with Commissioner Figlio, could shortly foresee the possibility of vaccinating people who move to other regions also on vacation, in order to avoid that in the summer months the vaccination campaign suffers significant and significant slowdowns. The text of which we are asking the House to accept therefore takes note of the current situation and, according to the calculated risk method, great intuition of our President of the Council Mario Draghi, commits the Government to take measures to eliminate the restrictions no longer justified. The end trend of the wave of contagions, associated with the important progress of the vaccination campaign, ensures that, respecting the fundamental anti-Covid measures, i.e. the social distance, the prohibition of assembly and the use of personal protective devices, we can finally return to freedom and a new normality, which covers the health needs with those of the real economy on its knees, which can no longer wait. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u228	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u229	Mr President, the fact that we are now examining motions for reopening here in the Senate is, I believe, an extremely important message that we are giving our fellow citizens, after this year and a half, which have been in serious difficulty with the Covid-19 epidemic and the serious crisis that has arisen. Mr President, allow me to use a metaphor: it is a bit like spring, which has just begun. We all know that it doesn't start when all the sky is cleared and when there is the sun shining, but when you start to come out of the winter, calmly, and there begins to be a warmer sun. We know there will still be rainy days, but we must be determined to say that what we are facing is a season of growth and recovery. [[Applause]] This statement must be made not only from the numbers of the pandemic, which decrease and comfort us on the choices made by the government, which we are supporting for the vaccination campaign, but also with a clear message to the productive activities, to which we have asked to remain closed, to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Mr President, a number of motions have been tabled (we have tabled two motions by a majority) and we have discussed a great deal on this day in order to arrive at an agenda. If the signing of Brothers of Italy were to be added to our signature, it would be a useful, important, beautiful, positive and credible message for the country, because everything that is needed is summarised in the text of this agenda. I read the device, Mr President, because it is the most synthetic thing that can be there: it commits the Government (...) to foresee any useful action to progressively overcome the so-called curfew regime: to continue with the progressive reopening of activities most affected by the restrictions, with appropriate security protocols, in particular: shopping centres and parks at weekends, sports facilities with public readmission, bar and restaurant activities, places of culture (libraries, theatres, cinemas, museums, live shows), theme parks and water parks, ceremonies and events. They are all those who, as I said, have been forced to close at the worst moment of the pandemic and who today can reopen their activities safely, while guaranteeing, at the same time, the economic recovery of the country. [[Applause]] We have been saying this for a long time, since the numbers comfort us in this determination. We have seen undeniable political framings and positions that have seemed more made to say no and to make a disrespect to the League than to look at the real interest of the country. [[Applause]] Let's move on, let's move on. We have accepted and agreed on this agenda, to which I once again invite my colleagues from the Fratelli d'Italia Group to join us. [[Applause]] , because he reopens the country, passes the curfew and says to do it safely. Look - and I say this on one side and on the other - that this is not about doing a favor or a spite of the League, but about looking at the real interests of the country. [[Applause]] and to use ideology at this time is the wrongest thing that can be, because we need a pragmatic and concrete approach, that looks at numbers, at the reduction - fortunately and not by chance - of the places occupied in hospital, at the ability of contrast that our health system is giving compared to the spread of the pandemic and the increase of vaccinations. In a word, we must return to living and working. Let us not forget that the new growth of the country and the rebirth are not done with subsidies, but with work. [[Applause]] and, where people can be allowed to return to work safely and to live, this must be reactivated. Mr President, I shall conclude. It is a phase of great responsibility. Yes, we took this responsibility, entering the government. We've also seen the provocations I said before. Maybe someone says, "But what are you doing to the government, if they continue to put stakes, when there are reopenings to do?" We say that this government will definitely go towards reopenings, because the League, within the Government team, is keeping its commitments and is telling the country that we want to reopen safely, not reopen everything or keep everything closed by political position, but pragmatically looking to the overcoming of the emergency phase. [[Applause]] That is our objective, Mr President: to tell the country today that we have left winter behind. Let's look ahead: let's do it together, safely. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u230	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u231	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as epidemiological data show clearly and unequivocally, there is a directly proportional relationship between the progress of the vaccination campaign and the reduction of infection, as well as the spread of the virus. The higher the number of doses given, the more the virus narrows and circulates less. Consequently, the improved overall framework allows and will allow a gradual and progressive relaxation of the existing restrictions, including those related to the limits of opening times and reopenings, even if partial, and of the same movements, all this always in compliance with the preventive measures of distance. With regard to the openings of activities or structures so far closed, as they could not ensure adequate security measures or could facilitate aggregations or possible assemblies, we are all in favour of a gradual and gradual reopening, always after a careful evaluation of the data relating to the contagions and the progressive impact of the vaccination campaign. It is necessary to be realistic and consequent in the choices, not to ride the wave of the polls or shout slogans destined to injure the souls of the people, already very touched by the pandemic situation and the difficulties that live every day. It is not necessary to create illusions, but to be objective and continue along the steep and difficult path, but of a constant and progressive return to normality. If we have come so far, despite a thousand difficulties, the resilience programme will have had some merit and will have produced tangible results. We must not forget, all of us, that even different European countries, until they have reached an adequate level of vaccine coverage, have applied strategic prevention plans to broad lines quite similar to ours, with closures and lockdowns more or less extended and prolonged, night curfew and limitations of the movements of their citizens. Some may say that the aid and support for the different productive and entrepreneurial activities in these countries has been faster, more appropriate and consistent, but perhaps someone forgets, deliberately or not, that unfortunately our availability and economic potential and our territorial organizational network of assistance to work and companies are not at all comparable to those of some European countries, first of all of Germany, and are the result of decades of economic and social policies and wrong policy choices by political forces and governments of which the 5 Star Movement was certainly not an integral part. [[Applause]] We reaffirm that the main way out of the pandemic crisis is mass vaccination, capillary and homogeneous throughout the national territory. We must not give a signal of "free all" or dangerous shots forward, otherwise we risk going back and taking other restrictive measures again. Only with a calibrated and gradual path, with political choices perfectly in line with scientific data, can the progressive reopenings required in safe conditions be achieved even of the activities that have suffered most from the pandemic impact from the economic point of view. These activities need to be continued, because I believe that they are more damaging to the reopening and alternating closures. Sharing choices is crucial to finally getting out of the pandemic emergency. It is not a matter of being strict or open-minded, but simply realistic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u232	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u233	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u234	Mr President, it is clear and understandable that, after many months of restrictions, there is a need on the part of the community and of each of us to have a more definite outlook on reopenings, to have clear indications on curfew and the gradual resumption of social life and to know whether and especially when, in the light of the steady decline in the number of contagions, it will be possible to gradually resume habits and daily lifestyles, albeit in compliance with all security measures and anti-contagion protocols. This need, obviously appreciable and acceptable, is requested by each of us, but it must be contemporaneous with the need to avoid any behavior that can affect the positive results that, with difficulty, with pain and sacrifice, we have, albeit slowly, progressively achieved. If you check the numbers of the weekly report that comes from the data coming from the Regions, you will notice that it is true that the number of admissions in the medical departments and our intensive therapies has dropped to an important extent and it is also true that there is a decrease in the number of infections, but all this still is not enough to be able to say that we are out of the emergency. The decrease has been progressive and slow and it is possible that in the coming weeks there is a recovery of the contagions, following the reopenings that have occurred in those, seen, and that this number of contagions is rising, I hope slightly, in the population group that today moves more, but that still is not vaccinated. It is therefore appropriate to continue to pursue the reduction of the number of cases also through mitigation measures aimed at reducing the possibility of aggregation. These rules must be complied with and it is precisely in compliance with these requirements, with the control of the numbers we detect every week, that progressive reopenings can be carried out without having to go back. This gradualness and this maximum precaution of openings will not make us take steps backwards. Decree-Law No 52 of 22 April 2021, which outlined the chronoprogram for the progressive elimination of restrictions made necessary to limit infection by viruses, also provides for the introduction on national territory of the so-called green certifications Covid-19, which prove the state of vaccination, a recent negativity to a molecular or antigenic test or the healing from the disease. In the light of these considerations, it is therefore necessary to balance safety and health rigour, on the one hand, and to resume all forms of socialization in the various forms of interpersonal aggregation, on the other. I agree with what I have just heard in this House. As you know, I have always tried to have a position that does not reflect any political idea, but an idea of public health superior to any ideology. It would be really nice if Brothers of Italy could somehow withdraw its motion and sign the G1 agenda in order to give an idea. I'd like the curfew to end, too, is that, first, although I'm a doctor, I can't give you a date. Curfew will be removed, but we still don't know when. We know we're working on progressive reopenings. It would be nice if all 315 of us could vote together what is desirable: progressive reopenings as soon as possible, because it is the desire of each of us. Mine is an invitation to be united together, regardless of the political color, because this is the desire of each of us. I'm sorry, speaking as a doctor, to see that there are these differences. Honestly, I am also sorry to have to give an opinion against it because, in the end, it would be nice to give a positive opinion on a single agenda, shared by each of us, and see everything green behind me when it is voted. [[Applause.]] I shall therefore, unfortunately, express a negative opinion on motion 1-00353 tabled by the Brothers of Italy and a favourable opinion on the G1 agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u235	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u238	[[Comments.]] FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Castaldi for the affection he shows me every time. I would also like to begin by contesting your negligence, Mr President, and the Presidency, for not distributing the text of the agenda that we are about to vote on to the Members of the Brothers of Italy, since those I am listening to from the senators are speeches that I would have imagined before the presentation of the agenda G1. In fact, on this agenda (which, thanks to the service carried out by Senator Candiani, I will not read again, because he read it very well, as a good television host or almost), there is written everything that is also written in the motion of Brothers of Italy. I would therefore like us to avoid using arguments such as those we are dealing with today to build elements of propaganda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have made a note to the Presidency for not distributing the agenda, but I will tell you after it is incorrect. FARAONE (IV-PSI). It was clearly a joke. I would never allow myself to be with you, Mr. President. I was saying that on this agenda there is everything that my colleagues of Brothers of Italy have proposed, correctly and rightly, and that we as Italy Viva share with respect to the need to be able to invest in reopenings. Mr President, given the economic investment that the country has already made in this year and a half of pandemics, mainly on support for productive activities, now the only possible economic intervention to restart, unfortunately, is to reopen. This is what we must do in the coming weeks and we must not, of course, fail to have the economic resources provided for in the Support Decree two, which is being discussed and which will be voted on in the Council of Ministers in the next few days, but it is clear that this measure continues to be a buffer solution. Today leaving is the only antidote to the economic crisis in this country, so the agenda we have presented has these characteristics. Of course, reopening makes sense thanks to the vaccination campaign, which finally works and with which we were able to shelter first and foremost those who risk the most. The average age of the deceased is 80 years: vaccines on those age groups are the most effective weapon to avoid further deaths in this country. 97 percent of Italians who died because of Covid still had one or more pathologies. Taking action on those people is therefore the most effective way to make the vaccination campaign work. And after a stunted start, in which in fact the "free all" was risked even on vaccination, fortunately we got to the regime and today the General Son can afford to say that we can also reach the million daily doses. Therefore, since the vaccination campaign works, you can reopen. Keeping the same game scheme - that is, closures, curfew and everything else - when the vaccination campaign works, it would really be foolish. Instead, thanks to this agenda, will be convened a directing booth in which will also be the theme of reopening to tourists in this country. We are the country that the year before the pandemic had recorded 221 million overnight stays; after Spain, it is the first in Europe. We must return to that level and this means planning tourism and also the access of foreign tourists, since we are the country with the most attractive tourist and cultural cities in Europe. There is the theme of curfew: we would be to abolish it, but in the meantime it is also okay to extend the opening time for those who have a catering activity. There is all the topic that concerns the centers and the commercial parks: it is incomprehensible that they are closed over the weekend, being places where there are people counters, temperature meters and protective devices. I believe that putting shopping malls back in the position of reopening on weekends is a choice of common sense. Then there are the sports facilities, with the release of the public; the activities of bars and restaurants; the places of culture, Mr President, such as libraries, theatres, cinemas and museums, live performances, theme and water parks and the area of ceremonies and events: I believe that everything is in here. In summary, therefore: reopenings, support for the transition phase and National Recovery and Resilience Plan, thanks to which we can plan the future years and economic growth of our country to come out of this pandemic. I therefore call on you to vote unanimously on the G1 agenda so that we can stand together in front of the steering booth that will meet soon and take the decisions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u239	Senator Pharaoh, although yours was a joke - but those who listen to you cannot know it - I want to confirm to you that the text of the agenda is distributed to all the senators, just as it was to the motion, then withdrawn, of which you were also a signatory. So there are motions and the agenda, so everyone can vote in full knowledge of the facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u240	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u242	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, the majority political forces and the Government hope that the only opposition force will withdraw its motion, because they are not happy that 95% of parliamentarians are part of the government, but they also hope that the opposition will not do its job. This, unfortunately, cannot be done, not yet; I know that you are working so that this can also happen in Italy. Thanks to Brothers of Italy, today we talk about the possibility of reopening. It is curious how a theme that is so dear to everyone had to wait for a motion from Brothers of Italy so that we could talk about it. Since it was so important, perhaps someone else could have tabled a motion on it; we have done so and we are happy to have been a stimulus for the majority and the government. Brothers of Italy presented the motion "Freedom and reopenings" to try to highlight the absurdity of the measures in force in Italy. It is more than a year that the fundamental freedoms of citizens and businesses are trampled on without a real reason: subjected to curfew, with an obligation of mask in the open and prohibition - with some concession - of visiting relatives and friends; our closed activities of empire, on the knees, with a million jobs lost (and we risk many more); people are prevented from operating, working and opening their own business; the enterprises are condemned to closure and abandoned; thousands of tourists give up to book in Italy, not knowing what the rules in force in our country will be from here to the next weeks. Why all this? To stop the pandemic from Coronavirus. This is false - I stress - and those who continue to repeat it continue to lie, Undersecretary Sileri. It's fake. They say that if we reopen, we end up in Brazil in Bolsonaro. These people do not even read: Brazil has 423,000 deaths which, in relation to its population of 211 million inhabitants, are less than those of Italy (i.e., 0.19 percent, compared to 0.2 percent of Italy). Spain, which has opened much more than us, has 0.16 percent of deaths; so why does Italy have the highest Covid mortality rates in the West, despite having the most restrictive measures in the West? Did you ask yourself that? Because it is not there that there is infection, that there is instead on public transport, where people mass and get infected. The virus comes with mass illegal immigration, which favored, with 13,000 illegal landings in four months. It is only the tip of the iceberg of illegal land arrivals and ghost landings: such data tell us that about 10 percent of those arriving are positive for Coronavirus. [[Applause]] That's where the contagion is. Undersecretary Sileri, since you have asked us to withdraw the motion, at least listen to us. [[Applause]] The infection is mainly in hospitals: that's where people get sick, because they enter health facilities, where they get the coronavirus and die. You don't have the courage to say that. The truth is that a state unable to do what is necessary to stop the pandemic is looking for scapegoats. And who are the scapegoats? The young people who make the mood, the barbarians who go to the gym or who have a restaurant and a business: these are the barbarians to strike, for your incompetence. [[Applause]] There is, however, an even more serious aspect and that is why we cannot withdraw our motion: you must understand that the Government does not have the right to restrict the fundamental freedoms of citizens and businesses. The government has a duty to establish behavioral rules to avoid infection and there it must stop: it cannot enter the people's house, churches and commercial activities. The government has to say what distance it needs and what security protocols have to be, and that's it. If I go out at midnight, 1 or 2 o'clock to do what I want, Undersecretary Sileri, that doesn't concern you. It's not about where I go and what I do. Or do you want to spy on me from the lock hole, see where I go when I go out at night? [[Applause]] The truth is that the curfew of the citizens serves you to make the curfew of democracy, because a people accustomed to holding the chains and to being locked in the house is easier to domesticate. Then it is okay for this Parliament to count for nothing: look at the squalor of empty seats, when it comes to the freedom of the Italians. And then the people are happy with the abuses that continue to be committed and the systematic violations of the law, as in the case of the Copasir; or it is also good for them to arrive searches of the ROS to journalists and professors who have dared to criticize the Head of State, as if we were Iran with the Ayatollahs. But we're not a theocracy yet. Here comes the motion of Brothers of Italy: we want to reiterate that the Government does not have the right to limit the fundamental freedoms of citizens and businesses. It is curious that you have presented a series of very copious motions and then it is all on an agenda. When you say synthesis! Congratulations. No, they are not the same: the majority motions beg the ruler to loosen the leash put to the Italians: please, instead of 22 hours, let's do 11 p.m.; please, will you let me work? That is not our motion: let us say that you do not have the right to restrict those freedoms. The agenda is quite singular. Why don't Brothers of Italy vote for him? We read it together: it asks the Government to anticipate any useful action to gradually overcome the so-called curfew regime. But why, is there a suspicion that you won't take it off sooner or later? This is also news. And then: "to continue with the progressive reopening of the activities most affected by the restrictions". But is there any doubt that sooner or later these activities will not reopen? What are you saying? What do you want us to vote for? We don't vote for this stuff. We vote on our motion, in which we ask for simple things, namely: enough with curfew, because you cannot do it; enough with the masks in the open, because they are useless (science tells us so); reopening of all activities. If you are capable, make a protocol and establish who must do what and, if I have the opportunity to respect it, I will open it; I must not have his permission, Mr. Undersecretary. The truth is that a delegitimized, frightened and conscious Parliament that would be swept away by the popular vote is willing to accept anything. This is the only reason why we continue to absorb these total violations of constitutional principles in Italy. For us freedom is affirmed, it is claimed, it is defended and does not beg; we are not here to beg an extra hour of curfew. The agenda of the majority is a mockery; we could sum it up even more, so we have an even greater sum than that of the majority: and even today, perhaps, it opens tomorrow. Well, we don't vote for it. Today we will see who is on the side of the freedom of citizens and businesses: Brothers of Italy has already made his choice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u243	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u245	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, it is roughly the twenty-fifth time in fourteen months that the Senate is discussing the measures to contain the epidemic, or if we want to say it more elegantly, the balance between the restriction of individual freedoms and national security, between health and economics or, if we want to say it in a more vulgar way, the relationship between closures and openings. I wanted to stress how many times Parliament has spoken on these issues, to clear the field from a couple of doubts that are often (I also think deliberately) left behind in a certain ambiguity: that Parliament has been mortified by the Government about the management of the pandemic and that those 25 passages have been useless. It is obvious that the management of such an extraordinary event has served some asymmetry between the data available to the choices of the Government and those of Parliament, but I do not think that we were useless and yesterday President Romeo was right, hoping that today's debate was not useless too, because every time we tried to feed the combination of choices of the institutions and behaviors of the citizens and we know well how important it was. Every time, in fact, we tried to take a picture of the feeling that the country was expressing, of the concerns, expectations and needs of certainty and I think we have often succeeded. The first thing we have to ask ourselves is what is the photograph of the country that we have to take today and therefore what are the commitments that we have to ask the government. Before going into the substance of this, however, allow me to dwell a few moments on the motion of my colleagues from the Brothers of Italy, which has just been presented, because I find something serious in that act. I quote: These restrictive measures have led to an unprecedented crisis on an individual, social and economic level and, despite this, the number of deaths and contagions has remained and remains, one year after their adoption, among the highest in the world. Again, Italy has become the extreme model of restrictive policies in contrast to the approach of other states that have limited little social life and civil liberties (...), without achieving any worse results. These three statements testify that, behind the common sense camouflage of the four commitments (via curfew, via masks, via restrictions in the houses and immediately open all the activities still standing still), there are very precise and dangerous theories for me, which do not render a good service to the credibility of the institutions: that without restrictive measures the results could have been better (and it is false); that there is a direct correlation between the number of deaths and the action of the Governments (and it is false); that someone is drawing a political advantage from the state of emergency (and it is false). For me these three theories are frankly unacceptable, so the colleagues of Brothers of Italy are free to think so, it is absolutely legitimate, but here there is the real difference between the meaning of being part of the majority that supports the Draghi government and choosing to be in opposition. I don't know if I've made myself clear enough. Having said that, I will quickly enter into the substantive proposals that the Democratic Party intends to make to the Government for the next steps. I think that the majority agenda is a good synthesis and I would like to highlight a few things in particular, especially in view of the important and delicate directing booth on Monday 17 May. In all the passages we worked starting from a basic assumption. First, the approach was progressive and proportional, where progressiveness was not meant to be slow and unilateral, but ready and fast to more restrictions, if the situation so requires, but just as ready to loosen them. Today, thanks to vaccines, the situation is: the openings must gradually be completed so that they are irreversible. That is the first point. Secondly, if reopenings are to tend to irreversibility, the risk calculation method needs to be changed. We have proposed this at several majority meetings for a few days now, and it is good that the Government is confirming this. It is clear that the indicators of pandemic development, on which the zoning of the regions depends, must be linked to the progress of the vaccination campaign and the burden on health structures. Otherwise, it can happen trivially that, on the one hand, we say that the country from here on out can only open and, on the other, it can happen that from a certain Monday a region is still orange and, therefore, it must close again. It must be clear that this cannot happen, except, of course, important and unforeseen aspects. I come to the third point. It is now everyone's awareness - as has been said in the debate so far, albeit in different tones - that the so-called curfew must be loosened. I would add that I hope that on Monday there will be a clear answer to what is the size of the loosening and what is the sequence with which the reopenings will take place. Moreover, certain times are needed - also for this reason I trust in what will happen on Monday - for some reopenings that we consider essential - we have written on the agendas - such as those of the shopping centers, of the ceremonies and events, of the places of culture and sport, of catering and theme parks. The fifth and final theme requires special attention and the Democratic Party has called for a specific commitment on the agenda and had already written it very clearly in its motions. In a few weeks, the tourist season opens. Needless to say, tourism in Italy is important and its weight on GDP is close to 13%. It is quite clear how much a significant part of this 13 percent depends precisely on summer seasonality. I therefore think that we must ensure that tourism is strictly safe. This means that there can be no leopard-spotted security on our shores, on our mountains, in our cities of art and in other places of attraction. This also applies to any correction of the vaccination campaign. If at some point we realize that the rhythm of the vaccination campaign does not put these places in complete safety, I think that in a few weeks we must be ready to make specific corrections, such as, at the end of May, at another important moment of verification, have a definitive word on the green pass, which is another crucial element for tourism to bring to Italy that strategic contribution that we know. In this case we play a lot both towards our fellow countrymen, to whom we give a demonstration of starting a piece of fundamental economy, and because that is the face with which we present ourselves to the rest of the world, which, as always, looks to Italy as a great destination to reach. Whatever anyone says, it is clear that the last mile of this pandemic still hides pitfalls, requires prudence, responsibility and even more determination, out of absurdity. Our citizens are tired; no one hides it, like no one hides that they have a desire to return fully to their lives. Therefore, I can only say, as I did last October, in the course of communications from the then President of the Count Council, that everything we have to do is still very difficult, but it is possible and necessary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u246	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u248	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I think it is honest to acknowledge that the regression data of the pandemic are linked to two fundamental factors: the first is the difficult and painful policy of closures and limitations. I hear we're the most closed country. It's not like that. I remind you that the UK reopened pubs a few weeks ago, having reached over 60% of vaccinations. But it is true that it is like the National football team: when you talk about these topics, each one says things in his own way. I don't want to argue, though. I think it is correct to recognise this, because it is so in fact; because data on intensive therapies and admissions are related to the fact that we have managed to lower the curve and, at the same time, we have increased the vaccine capacity, which is the other strategic element. Let me tell you something, even undersecretary Sileri. I appreciate the work you're doing on vaccinations. I would appreciate less communication availability; I would appreciate an effort to give more certainty to Italians. Sometimes, in fact, there's a risk that you don't understand where you're going. I say this constructively and appreciating the work that is being done. That said, the virus is not defeated. It's a banality. We have to keep our attention. There is the problem of variants and there is another issue, which we may be underestimating, but which is essential to me. When the numbers of the infection are reduced, it is necessary to strategically resume the tracking that, together with vaccination, is the tool that can give certainties to the Italians in relation to the government and the full management of the issue of the virus. Let us now come to the political aspects. I want to reassure the friends of the League. I never thought of proposing closure of activities to spite Salvini or the League. You can have the opinion you want, but we're not that crazy. Please, let's not use these arguments. Remember that you used, even at other times, arguments according to which we said that there was a pandemic to keep the Count Government alive. Let's get past it and move on. We no longer use these arguments, which are really inadequate at the moment and the effort we are making. With this order of business, together we debunk another silly commonplace, according to which the right closes or opens and the left closes or opens. Yes, because, depending on the statements and the moments, in fact it seemed that way. No, we have found an important summary which I would like to summarize in very few words at the end of the explanation of vote. In relation to the pandemic trend and vaccinations, we all want to reopen safely so that there is no going back. We all remember last summer and the boomerang effect we suffered. I wish we had at least the memory of a few months behind us. We all want to go beyond the constraints we have now, the moment we have the conditions to go further. Our debate ends here because, unlike other situations in which political dialectic can best be expressed, we are all convinced that the economy must be reactivated, but we are equally convinced that to do this we must give a signal of safety from a health point of view. This synthesis, which I can be trivial and which holds us together, means for me, at this point, that we delete all the things behind us (including the banality about who closes and who does not) and give a signal to the Italians: we are united, we take seriously, we look at the data and we do not escape from them because they are important and we give a secure message to the Italian citizens. It is in fact very clear that Italians are very tired and that the message we give is very important so that there is not - we all agree on this - the so-called free all. These are the examples and the seriousness that lead us to win this very hard battle. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u249	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u251	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, at this stage, Forza Italia insisted that the Government should take note of a number of issues, starting with the evolution of the health situation in improvement, even if no one underestimates the dangers, nor states that the emergency has been overcome. We must say that the birth of a new government has led to the correction of some errors and delays, because the main thing of these times is the vaccination campaign, which is leading to a reversal of course. There are some delays. For example, in Lazio, beyond what is said, there is a considerable difference between the doses available and those used. Lazio should reach the levels that in recent days has reached Lombardy, paradoxically thanks to a Roman who went to Milan to speed up the rites of Lombardy, which is generally more efficient than other realities of the territory. The course of the vaccination campaign is certainly important, but we have also made demands within the Government (our action is transparent). Our Head of Delegation and our Ministers have put a number of questions to the President of the Council in order to speed up the process of opening up. Although the agenda may be considered insufficient and limited, it notes a positive development in the situation, the discrepancies and the asymmetries that have penalized certain sectors. We think of theme parks, some cultural areas such as libraries, theatres and cinemas, as well as water parks and the theme of ceremonies that have been blocked and limited. It is obvious that they are moments of encounter, even of affectivity, therefore more dangerous occasions than others from the point of view of the spread of the contagion. But now one can begin to imagine a resumption of what is not only a social dimension (marriage, celebration, recurrence: these events mark the lives of people and families), but it is also an economic and productive activity that in Italy has become in recent years also a resource, because people from various parts of the world choose our country to celebrate weddings, to make our villages and our thousand appreciateable places also a resource for events that connect the ceremony to a location - as is said today - of great prestige. There is, then, the problem of contradictions, which we want to emphasize on this occasion too, in catering, in bars. It is now open to external action. However, through this agenda and this debate too, we call on the Government to reflect on contradictions. There are restaurants that do not have the possibility to carry out external activities and there are restaurants that have very large indoor spaces, where, with respect for distances and rules, you can probably carry out an activity in complete safety, with greater distances and crowds smaller than a series of tables. There are contradictions between the canteens that can carry out a certain activity, with crowds or however with remarkable presences, and other situations. I understand that the sporting event generates an unpredictable crowd: in this city you win the championship, in that other you get in Serie A. It is difficult to manage the public, even if in some cities, opening stadiums and admitting 3,000 people to celebrate, separated by stands, in a stadium of 50,000 places, nothing would have happened, while leaving them on the street was worse. I am also thinking of some political demonstrations, which I have seen on crowded television: those made by a certain sector can be done, others just say a sentence out of place and are persecuted. There's some widespread hypocrisy. We call on this debate and this agenda to come out of hypocrisy. With the new government some things have changed; some rules are changing; the vaccinations have started; some people who had not given the appropriate answers have been switched. It seems to me that now, from what I read in the newspapers, Parisi is also leaving the post, that he was supposed to take care of his job and that he had very expensive travel records. We applaud the changes also in other structures; I am thinking of the appointment of Ambassador Belloni to the DIS; it changes a political conditioning that had very characterized the debate before the crisis of government, when the delegations to the Services became widespread discussion. It is not that everything is already going well, so we want to urge the government to have more courage. Monday there will be other meetings: great. The Regions are making demands, in the State-Regions Conferences that with the Minister for Regional Affairs Gelmini happen continuously. The development of health, on the one hand, and the spread of vaccines, on the other, makes choices. We call - and I call on the representatives of the Government - on the removal of certain contradictions. Yesterday in Rome the employees of the shopping malls showed because they have to stay closed on weekends. But then (I quote the name of a company but I don't have it with them) from IKEA, which is like a shopping center for size, but it's monobrand, so it's not a shopping center (it's a big "negotion," like La Rinascente) crowding is the same over the weekend. Instead a mall, which has vigilantes and private security, so it can also regulate people's entrance and exits and make an evaluation, did not have the opportunity to carry out its activity on weekends. There are some brain decisions. I emphasized the things that the government does well but frankly sometimes, when I listen to Professor Locatelli, with all due respect, apart from the language a little woody and aulic, some things I don't understand. It may be language or my inadequacy to certain levels of science, but some empirical assessments must be made. In the transports there are crowds much higher than those that would register in a restaurant from the wide premises, that even indoors, with the distances, could work. Why can the IKEA have crowded and the shopping center cannot have a regulated entry and activity on the weekend? We need, in short, to give signs of trust. I conclude on the issue of curfew and timetables: not only is it important to make the decisions that we hope the government will take in the next few hours, reviewing the timetables and a social organization that has been compressed for the reasons we know and that today can breathe again; but there is also the prospect of the tourist season. So being able to say that there is an evolution in progress will help those who have to make reservations at the hotel and who has to win, with the Italian beaches, mountains and cities of art, the Spanish and Greek competition, which is being proposed these days. So it is not enough just to make some commercials on a Covid free island, somewhere, but it is necessary to reassure those who, slowly - because unfortunately the path will be slow - make reservations and want to come to Italy, to have a perspective and a dynamic that allows them to imagine, compatible with the data of the epidemic, to carry out in Italy an activity of tourism and enjoyment of our beauties. I therefore hope that, even in the wake of this debate, the Government will take a more incisive and faster pace and remove some contradictions. Professor Locatelli takes a metro ride and goes to see the difference with the department store or the mall, because, frankly, some of these people may have never seen such realities. There is therefore a need for greater consistency in regulation. We have never been on the side of the negationists, we have always emphasized - first of all President Berlusconi did - the situations of danger that our country has lived and still lives, as well as the need for caution, prudence and wisdom and we are active supporters of the vaccination campaigns. From Forza Italia came the proposal to involve the world of health of the territory, the world of businesses and the world of pharmacies. The 500 000 vaccination plan a day was first delivered by our party, during the consultations that preceded the formation of the current government. So we have always been objective, with our feet on the ground and with realism. With the same realism, we tell the Government to have more courage and more determination, because Italy must return to live and grow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u254	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are very pleased that the attitude in the debate has changed a great deal, especially by some political forces, compared to the last time we spoke about the subject of reopenings, when we examined the motion of distrust presented by the Brothers of Italy Group towards Minister Hope. We record very different and more aperturist tones, from some political forces, that until yesterday strongly supported the idea that it was necessary to use as much prudence as possible, without giving the opportunity to regain a little 'freedom to many citizens, who have seen it taken away in the course of time, gathering also - I say and am proud of it - the invitation that the League had made to get out of the debate between opentourists, chiusurists, negationists, health extremists or supporters of health extremism [[Applause]] , addressing the problem in a pragmatic way, using common sense and prudence, certainly reopening with appropriate security protocols, but trying to make sure that citizens can return to normal life as soon as possible. Of course, further important aspects have taken place, such as the vaccination campaign, which is progressing in an increasingly significant way, with ever higher numbers, respecting the chronoprogram of General Son. The data also undoubtedly go in the desired direction: we have a decrease in intensive therapies, a decrease in the number of people admitted, there is an increase in the number of people cured and there is a decrease in the positive cases recorded daily. So all this, of course, along with the desire to bring citizens back to life, has meant that many political forces - of which we are pleased - that perhaps initially were very hesitant, have instead convinced themselves that this is the time to be able to reopen. Moreover, the logic that has always distinguished our thesis is to be careful because it is proven that the longer the restrictions are and last too long - on this I mentioned a study at Harvard University - the more people tend to ignore them. [[Applause]] The real risk was therefore to make measures that remained only on paper, then making the government make a bad figure because, while putting restrictions, it is seen that substantially few people respect them. I would add that it is also difficult to put in place controls, if there are 20,000 or 30,000 young people who go to piazza Bologna and who basically remain to celebrate well beyond 22 hours, just to give an example. This agenda, on which we have all worked together and which I also invite the Brothers of Italy Group to sign and vote, shows that we have come out of that debate and that we have managed to convince many of the political forces that were reluctant to understand that it is time to reopen: I would say that for a political force to be able to say that we managed to convince others is a good result and we could not ask for more. [[Applause]] How could we ask for more than the fact that we were able to convince you? This is something we are absolutely proud of and proud of. We would also like to be able to convince our colleagues in the Brothers of Italy, not so much about reopenings, because I think we are quite in agreement on this, but on the subject of the motion. In fact, the first commitment contained in the motion of Brothers of Italy - I say this to my colleagues, to my colleague Rauti, in particular - speaks of curfew and says: "[...] remove the unnecessary measure of curfew at 10 p.m.." But if I had wanted to remove curfew completely, I would have written to remove the unnecessary amount of curfew and that's it. Why is it written at 10 p.m.? [[Applause]] Because obviously, colleagues of the Brothers of Italy, you too are convinced that this can happen in a progressive and gradual way, exactly as the agenda signed by everyone says. This testifies to the fact that even on a sensitive issue such as curfew we are all in complete agreement. [[Applause]] We do not therefore explain why you too should not sign this agenda, given that curfew is the most important political issue, which has had a stronger media aspect. As I always say, in the end motions, documents and decrees must be read to the full and then a political force that becomes a government force - I am happy with this - must still be ready to confront and find the right mediations with everyone else, at least we think so, because governing, as we all know, is not that simple. [[Applause]] On the shift of curfew I think I understand that we are all in agreement; then it will be 11:00 a.m. or 1:00 p.m., it will be what the government will decide, but in the meantime Parliament will give a basic input in this direction and we are happy with that. The other issue I would like to highlight concerns shopping malls. In this regard, when Minister Hope came I said that I understand the logic of creating a deterrent, so, keeping the shopping centers closed on Saturday and Sunday, there are fewer people around. The problem is that unfortunately this does not happen because, whether the shopping malls are open or closed, however the people around go anyway, it is the same, indeed, there is the risk that it will focus more in some areas, in some squares, in some places, in some areas, creating gatherings. [[Applause]] I am not an expert, but to use some common sense and a little rationality leads me to think that, if the same number of people, instead of concentrating them, I distribute them on more places, I have less gatherings; all the more, if in these places you also do the temperature controls, there is a minimum of tracking, there is the willingness to put the counter-people, in addition to the car count of the cars that go in the parking lot, I would say that we are absolutely in perfect safety. It no longer makes sense to keep shopping malls closed in prefectures and public holidays. This is what we are asking for and I am pleased that many political forces have worked on this issue and that is why we are absolutely satisfied with this too. There is also the theme of sports facilities. We have seen the fans gathering, well let them enter the stadiums in a minimum number, spaced, in the open air, as happens in many European countries ( [[Applause]] ), and in the end maybe we can also avoid possible infections here, without doing all that terrorism that, given to the hand, has proved not to be very well founded. Good sense, prudence security and willingness to reason together: this is the path of the Dragon Government. [[Applause]] We have also addressed other issues, such as the activities of bars, restaurants, theme parks, ceremonies and events. As for the limit of 15 people who can participate in the wedding ceremony, we consider it appropriate to allow people who marry, for whom that is the dream of a life, to celebrate outdoors. I refer to all ceremonies, as well as communions and baptisms. The road seems to me well set, we agree to do things gradually, with confidence, but really starting to return to normal life. Today we can only be satisfied. There is this only question on which we would so much like for the Brothers of Italy to come with us, because if we all agree we will certainly have rendered a service to the country, without having to repeat all the times, even before voting. [[Applause]] Having to take or leave is a situation that bothers us regardless of who proposes it. Discussing all together is the best way to do an excellent service to the country, leaving behind ideology and politics, which should not enter into these events. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u255	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u257	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, more than a year has passed since Covid-19 turned our lives upside down, a year in which this virus has taken away, only in Italy, more than 123,000 people: children, parents, friends, work colleagues, people with a history that has been broken. We faced a national lockdown and unthinkable moments before February 2020, scenes like that of military trucks loaded with coffins leaving Bergamo, which we will never forget. We were at war, a war that was not fought by soldiers, but by doctors and health workers. The Italian National Government, led by our Giuseppe Conte, has done extraordinary work to protect the health of all Italian citizens. Over 13 billion have been allocated to strengthen our National Health Service. We have hired doctors, strengthened structures, we have tried in every way to fill the gaps left by ten years of bad health policies that cost our health care as much as 37 billion cuts. [[Applause]] In the same way, refreshments have been introduced to cope with that economic crisis that came violently soon after the health crisis. It's been more than a year and we're all exhausted, but this tiredness fortunately doesn't put our lucidity in trouble. There are those in this House who are asking us to reopen everything, to go back 15 months as if nothing had happened. We'd love to, no doubt. We are talking about finite patience as if we had fun being gradual and progressive. These days we talk a lot about various bonuses for some decrees, we are aware of it; the best bonus for all those activities that have stood still for months is just the reopening and the turnover is the best compensation because the Covid has literally ripped the economic fabric of our country. Bars, restaurants, hotels, shops, shopping malls, gyms, swimming pools and down to descent; the list of sectors, sectors and productive segments torn apart by the months of epidemic is exterminated. With the Government led by Giuseppe Conte we have put in field more than 160 billion euros in 12 decrees; a cure from horse for our economy, ascended to 202 billion in this short glimpse of Government Dragons. Of course, when faced with global disasters of this magnitude, money is never enough and the torments of those who had to stop working were ours. We have approved measures for liquidity, grants, various types of relief, facilities for any risk and cover for fixed business costs. In the decree-law support- bis we will develop a double track of compensation; alongside those related to the losses of turnover we will also act on the Ebitda. Not only that, in the decree-law support discussed here last week was removed in the area of Cesarini as much aid as possible to give real liquidity to the companies. The amendment on the cedibility of tax credits that mature with transition 4.0, the maxi package of aid wanted by Minister Patuanelli in maneuver, that supports those companies that invest on themselves in technology, innovation and new capital goods. Here, this measure, real lung to give oxygen to our productive world, must be recovered immediately. [[Applause]] Let us be one voice, let us all commit ourselves to the availability of tax credits. Italy does not need propaganda, but solutions and this measure is a solution. Just as the 110% superbonus on construction - be careful - must be refinanced up to the whole of 2023 without waiting for the next budget law because this expectation would have deflagrating effects on a measure that has already started 1.8 billion jobs throughout the country. Not only that, it is necessary to extend it to hotels, bed and breakfasts and other private buildings that host activities that in recent months have not cashed a euro. It would be a concrete aid to re-launch small and medium-sized enterprises and to restart our economy. In short, there is a lot to do on the economic front and we are perfectly aware of it. Attention, however, there is also one thing not to do: to think, as the colleagues of Brothers of Italy would like, that everything is over, that everything has passed, that the time machine has brought us back to February 2020. It's not like that. I repeat: solutions, not propaganda. [[Applause]] With regard to what Mr Fazzolari said just now, I would like to point out that he has said things that are not true. You get sick in hospitals, it's fake. Curfew has no scientific basis, it's false. Migrants bring up the contagions, it's fake. There's no need for locks. It's fake. [[Applause]] To reopen everything and then maybe to have to go back would be not only imprudent, but also silly because we would certainly go to give the blow of grace to our economic system, but also to the health system. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to lose sight of the objective that, for a year now, is only one: to limit the contagions to protect the citizens and defeat the Covid-19, a goal that we can finally reach thanks to vaccines. Although the pandemic has shown all the limitations of the reform of Title V of the Constitution, with Regions that unfortunately failed to react to the shock wave and with Regions that have not shown up to organize a vaccination campaign, following the priority criteria indicated by the Government we are moving forward. I come to the sad note, colleagues; in Italy the opposition has decided to campaign on coronavirus, has decided to speculate on the despair of the citizens and on the weariness of the Italians, squeezing the eye in a dangerous way to what could be the easiest solution to make propaganda. I repeat, solutions are needed to resolve and not solutions to propaganda. [[Applause]] Then, it must be clear to everyone that if today we are in a position to start reopening it is not thanks to those who shouted it in a broken way, to those who threw gasoline on the fire of the anxieties of the Italians. No, it is only thanks to the sense of responsibility, to the strenuous and unpopular measures, which have allowed us to reach a situation in which we can think of reopening. [[Applause]] This too must be clear to everyone: the decree that allowed us to resume our lives from 26 April, one piece at a time, does not represent a "everything and immediately" or a "free all," but represents a gradual path, because taking the longer step of the leg would not help anyone. It would not help to open everything and then have to close and that is why from the beginning there was talk of a coupon to do to the decree after two weeks. It is clear that if the data improve, if the situation allows us to do so, we can intervene, without underestimating, however, that although there is a decrease in the overall incidence of SARS-Cov-2 and a progressive progress in the vaccination campaign, the epidemiological situation is still of serious concern throughout Europe, considering the situation of the SARS-Cov-2 virus variants. And to pretend nothing, ladies and gentlemen, will not eliminate the problem; he will propose it again, only in a more violent way, in a few weeks' time, if we are wrong today. And we can't afford it. We don't care if there are games between right-wing parties, who shoots the biggest, but the Covid-19 emergency cannot become the object of political propaganda. [[Applause]] You can't play with the expectations of the citizens. You can't play to try to tick a few percentage points in the polls, perhaps putting the tourist season at risk this summer. For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars certainly asks that measures be relaxed, but always and only based on the evolution of epidemiological data and on the vaccine coverage of citizens, in a progressive and intelligent way. [[Applause]] I repeat, in a progressive and intelligent way. In the light of what has been said and thanks to the great work of my Group in formulating a unitary agenda among the majority forces, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars on the agenda G1. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u258	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u259	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u260	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I will be very brief. It is not true that we should not and cannot be political on this issue too, because you have heard that the nuances and sometimes the political differences have emerged and it is right that they are. Moreover, the point of drop on the agenda signed by the majority is indefinite and it is difficult to find an element of certainty. The Government is committed to verifying, strengthening, etc.: we are practically the "dear friend" or little we miss. On the other hand, however, I cannot fail to read a precise commitment, because it says 'to make immediate the reopenings': so it is a matter of making a clear decision. There is an attempt to hold together the different positions that have emerged in the parliamentary dialectic in these last speeches. On the other hand, there are those who propose - then one is free to support this decision or not - an immediate reopening. I will therefore vote in favour of the motion tabled by Brothers of Italy, which calls for immediate openness. As this, however, all in all, is an agenda with rose water, I will abstain, because it says nothing. I thank the Presidency for allowing me to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u261	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 353, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh, Unterberger and Romans. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u262	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00349, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, 1-00354, tabled by Senator Bergesio and other senators, 1-00355, presented by Senator Nastri and other senators, 1-00357, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators, 1-00358, presented by Senator De Lucia and other senators, and 1-00360, presented by Senator Marino and other senators, on the Turin candidacy to host the Winter Universiade of 2025. As established by the Conference of Leaders, the discussion will be limited to explanations of vote only for a period of five minutes in the Group. However, it seems to me that there is an agreement between the Groups that the Senators Garavini, Nastri, Laus, Berutti, Tiraboschi, Bergesio and Pirro, who had asked to speak in an explanation of vote, put their speeches to the record. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the motions that have been tabled because they give me the opportunity to express my opinion. It is my intention to confirm Turin as the venue of the event in case of final award to Italy of the Universiadi 2025 and to ensure, in accordance with the resources available, an appropriate financial contribution, provided that significant appropriations will have to come from the territory to cover the commitments undertaken and able to meet the financial obligations related to the event. [[Applause.]] I shall now turn to the various motions for resolutions. With regard to motion 354 tabled by Senator Bergesio and other senators, I am in favour of the premises as well as the operative part, with the following rewording: It commits the Government to support in all appropriate locations the candidacy of Turin to host the 32nd edition of the 2025 Winter Universiade and to ensure, compatible with the resources available and in case of final award, an appropriate financial contribution. With regard to motion 357 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, the opinion is in favour of the premises and arrangements, subject to the following rewording: "Impegna il Governo: 1) to collaborate with the Piedmont Region, the Municipality of Turin and the entire committee promoter in the preparation of an action plan and an accurate estimate of the costs that the realization of the event and the infrastructures connected to it involve; 2) to support Turin's candidacy to host the 32nd edition of the 2025 Winter Universiade and to ensure, in accordance with the resources available and in the event of final award, an appropriate economic contribution. On motion No 349 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, the opinion is in favour. With regard to motion No 358 tabled by Senator De Lucia and other senators, the opinion is in favour of the premises and the device up to the words 'Winter Universiade'. On motion No 360, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators, the opinion supports the premises, with the exception of the last three paragraphs, and the operative part. With regard to motion 355 tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators, the opinion is in favour of the premises and the operative part, subject to the following rewording: The Government is committed: 1) to support the candidacy of the city of Turin to host the 32nd edition of the Winter Universiade 2025; 2. to ensure, in accordance with the resources available and in the event of final award, an appropriate economic contribution; 3) to collaborate with the Regione Piemonte and the local authorities in the preparation of an action plan and an accurate estimate of the costs that the realization of the event and the infrastructures connected to them involve.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u264	Madam Undersecretary, I have to tell you that you did some slalom by reversing the motion order. Above all, it should give us the texts of the proposed rewordings because it is almost a rewriting of some. Let's go one at a time. Senator Bergesio, do you agree on the reformulation? Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tapes, do you agree on the rewording? NASTERS (FdI). Yes, Mr President, I agree with the rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bernini, do you agree on the reformulation? BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Lucia, do you agree on the reformulation? DE LUCIA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marino, do you agree on the reformulation? MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, I would ask all those who have expressed their intention to speak in an explanation of vote to hand over the text of their speech. I am referring to Senators Garavini, Nastri, Laus, Berutti, Tiraboschi, Bergesio and Pirro. We shall therefore proceed with the votes. [[Brusio.]] I'm not speeding up. I'll proceed with the time. I call on Senator Laus and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on motion No 349. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 354 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bergesio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.39 p.m. and resumed at 7.59 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u267	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. It has been two days for Parliament to stand still for continuous shameful postponements. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u268	It seems to me that we can allow ourselves to intervene. Please, Senator Fazzolari.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u269	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Imagine if people like us get intimidated. They can scream all they want. Mr President, I would like to point out, when it comes to responsible opposition, that the famous agenda so vital for reopenings has passed only thanks to the fact that the Brothers of Italy guaranteed the quorum. [[Applause]] Without the Brothers of Italy the quorum would not have been guaranteed. I would point out that this is not wonderful for Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u272	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to say that we do not take lessons from anyone, especially bearing in mind that the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work went to Brothers of Italy, when the Member of the Commission was not there, because we all voted. So perhaps you'd better thank us, or else claim the role of the opposition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, please stick to the order of business and not a controversy. [[Senator Romeo's comments.]] He spoke of this work and not of those of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u273	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u275	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, it is clear that the Five Star Movement tonight is full. We do not fear the quorum and, if it were up to us, the quorum would never have been a problem. We don't take any lessons from anyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u276	The lack of quorum is an objective fact. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 354 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bergesio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 355 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 357 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 358 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Lucia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 360 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u277	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-326.ana.u278	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 18 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.05 p.m.
