ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u6	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, yesterday, at the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, many people, particularly my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, saw the intention of postponing the vote on the Rai Board of Directors, also in the light of the fact - and there are certainly other considerations - that the House itself postponed it. It is a well-established practice, with strong logic and motivation, for the two votes to take place together. Of course, we cannot set the date at this time, but there will be a Conference of Leaders to do so. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this item be referred back to the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u7	On the proposal put forward by Senator Malan, I have the right to speak a senator in favour and one against.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u10	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am absolutely opposed to postponing the vote on the Board of Directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione Italiana Spa on two issues. The first concerns the need to equip the company with governance as soon as possible and not to leave a situation that puts the company in difficulty. It is not a good signal that Parliament will postpone the vote of the Management Board after it has been scheduled, when we are ready to vote on it. President, the other issue that really bothers me is that among the parties that have requested the postponement of the Rai Board there is the Movimento 5 Stars. The reason they do not want to vote on the new board of directors is that they are not ready because the party is not organized to give an indication: they still do not have clear whether it should give the name Grillo or Conte. Honestly we did not expect this attitude from a Movement that taught us about Rai's autonomy from the parties. [[Applause]] Therefore, Mr President, I am convinced that Rai needs to change structure. We have presented, together with other parliamentary groups, a legal measure that we will discuss in order to transform the RAI into a foundation. In the meantime, however, it is urgent to give the Rai a governance that is up to date, immediately and without a lottery; I address first of all the Movimento 5 Stars that requested the postponement.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u13	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out to my colleague, Mr Pharaoh, that we are not talking about batching, but about the choice of members of the Rai Board of Directors, i.e. the public information service, as laid down by law. It is true that there are problems of timing, of which I regret, with the choice of member by the Movimento 5 Stars, but I note that there are also from other political forces. I want to say that I regret it because undoubtedly the Rai is exhausted. It is an appeal that I call for the choice of the names of the members of the Board of Directors, even if we are voting for an extension today. Allow me, President, to add a note on the date foreseen by Prime Minister Draghi for the presentation of the CEO, scheduled for July 12th. We will see whether it will respect Parliament, give it a name later or if it will advance. I would also like to focus on the ways that Prime Minister Draghi used to choose a CEO for the RAI who needs - today as never before, at this very delicate moment, which risks seeing her crash for various reasons - also resources that Parliament should increase and recognize as right. It is not possible to entrust to a company of head hunters the name of a CEO for a company such as Rai, so complex and difficult to manage, when the political forces could have made a common axis and propose an internal name (turned various names, one of which was Del Brocco, a transversal figure) or in any case the name of a person who knows internally the systems and mechanisms of management of the Rai. The operation of Draghi risks further sinking the public service, already in difficulty.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u16	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to confirm that, although I appreciate Mr Faraone's speech and the issues raised, which obviously deserve a much wider debate, as the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we will vote in favour of the postponement, because the Lega Group has also asked the House for the same thing. I only spoke to underline the reason for our vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u17	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, without registration of the names, of the proposal to postpone the election of the two members of the Board of Directors of Rai, made by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. We can disassemble the catafalk. He asked the President of the 11th Permanent Commission, Senator Matrisciano, to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 2267. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u18	Mr President, the Commission is completing its work. So, let's ask for a little more time. We need all morning to finish them in order to be in this House presumably this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u19	If I have to suspend work and fix the shooting, can you give me a timetable? MATRISCIAN (M5S). We'd be okay with 3:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u20	Colleagues, I have a request from the President of the Commission, who is reasonably the most informed person on the progress of the work, who proposes to begin the examination of the measure in the Chamber at 3 p.m. If there are no objections, I accept the President's request and suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.44 a.m. and resumed at 3.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2267. The rapporteur, Senator Laus, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission, particularly the President and the offices, for their valuable cooperation. Today we are called to convert into law Decree-Law No 79 of 8 June 2021, which brings temporary and temporary measures pending the implementation of the delegation discipline provided for in Law No 46 of 1 April 2021 on the reorganization, simplification and strengthening of measures in support of dependent children through the establishment of the universal single allowance. It is an epochal reform, that of which the law delegates, of fundamental importance for all the families of this country, so important that with the decree-law in conversion it has been intended to temporarily anticipate its effects, extending them also in favor of families that, because of the subjective profiles of its members, do not fall within the scope of the institution of the cheque for the family. This measure intervenes temporarily - I would like to reiterate this, as the Commission has confirmed with the approval of specific amendments - to give a signal of seriousness and closeness to the Italian families in this very complex historical phase, but without wanting in any way to remove the full implementation of the delegation by the Government. What we convert today is a temporary measure, which at the same time gives a clear signal: on economic support to families Italy is serious, promoting in an active and concrete way parenting in our country. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for the serious and thorough work we have done together on a subject of high technical complexity, but always in the awareness that it is affecting the concrete living conditions of people, families and children. This is an example of good policy, accurate and competent legislation. This, too, seems to me to be an important fact, especially if it relates to the context of the measure under consideration and its importance. The temporary and transitional measure brought by the decree-law, payable from 1 July to 31 December 2021, therefore for a period of six months, consists of a monthly allowance subject to the requirements of Article 1, paragraph 1, the amount of which is determined by reference to the level of ISEE and the number of children underage. As mentioned above, the temporary allowance under consideration is in favour of households which, because of the subjective profiles of their members, do not fall within the scope of the institution of the household allowance. I would remind you that the latter is recognised under certain conditions relating to income, the composition of the household, the presence of underage children, conditions of incapacity and with variable amounts, in favour of employees and workers who are exclusively members of the so-called separate INPS management, holders of pension treatment or other social security benefits resulting from these activities. The temporary allowance referred to in Articles 1 to 4 shall be recognised if the applicant fulfils all the requirements laid down in Article 1 and only for the period during which they are present. The application for the temporary allowance under consideration shall be submitted electronically to the INPS, i.e. to the institutions of patronage and social assistance, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the INPS, by 30 June 2021 at the latest. The allowance, within the maximum period of application (constituted, as mentioned above, from the second half of 2021), shall start from the month of submission of the application with the right, however, to the deferred monthly amounts for applications submitted by 30 September 2021. The cheque is paid by credit to the bank or postal account of the applicant, or by home transfer. In the case of shared custody of the child in relation to whom the cheque is paid, half of the amount may be credited to the bank or postal account of the other parent. The allowance in question does not help to form the tax base of the income tax of natural persons and is compatible with other benefits in favour of dependent children provided by the Regions or Autonomous Provinces and by local authorities, as well as, in the more than implementation of the legislation of delegation referred to in law n. 46, with the measures, with the exception of the above-mentioned institution of the household allowance, indicated in article 3, paragraph 1, of this law. For households receiving citizenship income, the temporary benefit in question shall be paid within the framework of the above-mentioned overall ceiling on expenditure referred to in Article 2 (3) of the INPS to supplement the citizenship income and in the same way as the latter. In any event, the temporary allowance under consideration is excluded from the concept of family income assumed on the basis of the calculation of the citizenship income tax. Article 5 provides, on a transitional basis, for the period from 1 July 2021 until 31 December 2021, for an increase in the monthly family allowance measure. The increase relates only to cases of families with children; the monthly increase is equal, for households up to two children, to EUR 37.5 for each child and for households with at least three children to EUR 55 for each child. Article 6 provides for an increase of EUR 30 million in State funding for the agreement between INPS and tax relief centres for 2021, in view of the increase in volumes of unique replacement declarations. Article 7 lays down rules on the financing and financial monitoring of wage integration treatments with a causal Covid-19. Article 8 provides for the financial cover of the measure. Colleagues and colleagues, I am referring today to the results of the hard work carried out by the Commission, in the course of which we have been guided by the awareness of some fundamental points that I want to reiterate here: first of all, the temporary nature of the measure and the absolute need to proceed in parallel with its delivery, the rapid implementation of the delegation provided for in Law No 46; second, the strong attention to support for parenthood; third, we have clearly perceived, in the course of deepening in the Commission, some criticalities, especially regarding the strong progressiveness which is inspired by the criteria for identifying the ISEE threshold, with the consequent proportional reduction in the amount of the allowance to improve the economic situation of the household. We are aware that this can lead to the risk of discouraging the work of the second percedent of income of the household, coinciding, in most cases, with women. This is precisely why, while not directly intervening in the Commission, an agenda has been deposited which commits the Government to take charge, when implementing the delegation, of this issue, especially in order to fully implement the purpose expressed by Article 1 of Law No 46 to promote employment and in particular that of women. We are thinking, ladies and gentlemen, of a temporary measure and at the same time, as I said, we are giving a signal of great seriousness and vigilance to all Italian families. I am convinced that the work carried out by the Commission in the examination of the draft law on which I refer to the Assembly has allowed to deepen the essential and potential critical junctions of the same discipline that will have to be adopted in implementation of the delegation. This is also what we are delivering to this House today. On everything, however, colleagues and colleagues, we were guided by the certainty of doing an important job to give Italian families and parenting immediate, concrete, fundamental support at a stage like this and of this we can say proud and proud.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u23	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are called upon to express ourselves on this measure: the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 79 of 8 June 2021 on urgent measures for temporary allowances for minor children. We therefore find ourselves having to make a choice, more or less shared, on a measure that we thought we had already taken. Given that it is absolutely acceptable, in a moment of pandemic emergency, such as this which seems postpandemic (and we really hope it is) and in which families have encountered management difficulties, it is important to specify some aspects. We mean the measure as a child's allowance (previously unique, now temporary); in fact, it is yet another income support measure. I say that because it is important that things be called by their name. This is also evident within the text, in the indications of the requirements. It is clear that credit is made, within the household, to one of the parents or, in some cases, to both. The point, however, is not about the technical formula. As this is a measure of income support, it is as if the value of the person in himself were diminished. We have so many others, such as citizenship income, which is another, yet another, income support measure. The peculiarity of this, however, lies in the fact that, while in the draft law delegates, which clearly became law, we witness a combination of funds and therefore the lack of possibility for some nuclei to benefit from tax reliefs, in this case such amalgamation is not done. It is therefore yet another bonus for six months granted to families, according to a criterion of graduality which is also questionable. As we have said so many times in recent years, in fact, this criterion refers to the ISEE, which is an indicator that we consider obsolete and does not take into account the real income of the core. However, I should not like to dwell on the question, which we shall have the opportunity to discuss in more detail at another time. As the Brothers of Italy, we have proposed amendments to evaluate calculation alternatives, always taking into account the concept of progressiveness: and we will also talk about this, perhaps, further on. An alternative, in particular, could be that proposed by us: raising the threshold from EUR 50,000 to EUR 60,000. We know very well, in fact, that an ISEE of 50,000 euros corresponds to a couple in which they both work and with an average salary. Always keeping the same proportion (30 with two children and 40 for each child with three children and up), the idea was to raise the ISEE to at least 60,000 euros. The decree intervenes with a view not to investment, but to spending. We have tried to limit this with an intervention: to recognize the allowance to young people and children who reside and have their domicile and study in Italy, from North to South, but in such a way that there is an investment perspective, that is that the quotas are invested on the Italian territory, creating a virtuous circle on the macroeconomic level. This too has not been taken into account at all. Yet another agenda has been adopted and we have finally better detailed a period of 90 days, if the Government takes it in full, within which to consider this amendment of the ISEE. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u25	Senator Serafini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u26	Mr President, in 2100 the Italian population, according to international studies on demographic trends, will fall - if we do not reverse the trend - to about 30.5 million people. The Chambers, for a long time, have been calling attention to the progressive halving of the population in Italy, due to zero growth, resulting in faster ageing from us than in the rest of Europe. Forza Italia has always been in favour of political, social and economic initiatives that are aimed at supporting families, a reform of the tax system that is to support them and consequently to the birth, which must be defended and encouraged with specific long-term interventions. The single universal allowance is one of these support measures that could help the Italian birth rate if, of course, its implementation took place in a context of economic growth, employment, reduction of precariousness, reorganization of public expenditure for minors and reduction of the tax levy. The decree-law under consideration represents the bridge measure from 1 July to 31 December 2021, intended for families in compliance with the requirements for each child under 18 years of age, including children adopted or in foster care. This applies to households with an equivalent economic situation indicator (ISEE) of less than EUR 50,000 per year, until the entry into the universal and single allowance scheme for each child, which will take place from January 2022. The expenditure costs foreseen for 2021, for Articles 2, 5 and 6, shall be EUR 3 million. Under this measure, the temporary allowance is paid to families with minor children who are not entitled to family allowances under the legislation in force. The allowance is paid according to the number of children, so the amount of the allowance decreases as the ISEE increases and is higher for families with three or more children. The cheque to be paid is zero reached the threshold of ISEE 50,000. The temporary allowance shall be paid monthly by the INPS on the basis of the application submitted. The hearings of the 11th Commission revealed some critical aspects of the legislative framework of the Decree-Law, which I believe can weaken the universalist principle to which the Decree-Law would like to tend: first, the threshold of 50 000 euros of the ISEE, compared to those States, including Europeans, with strong policies of support for the birth, where having children is considered a personal choice, in the interest of the nation, similar measures are not proportionate in relation to family income, as the ISEE indicator penalizes family incomes compared to the individual ones and the use of the ISEE risks causing distorting and unequal effects, in particular for certain categories of citizens. It has been pointed out that for the universal single allowance the use of the ISEE's own income component for the definition of the benefit instead of the whole indicator would be much preferable. Very rapid progressivity, which reduces the amount of the allowance by half, discourages families with low income to increase it. Another critical issue is the accentuation of the benefit to families with at least three children: as has been pointed out by the business world, guaranteeing a monthly allowance that can be combined with the measure of citizenship income could lead to paradoxical situations, in which companies find themselves in even more difficulty in finding a workforce, constituting the concrete possibility that the average guaranteed salary of the company is lower than the grant guaranteed by the State and therefore this measure acts as a possible disincentive to employment. In order to improve the effectiveness of the measure, Forza Italia has decided to table some amendments relating to the ISEE, which have not been made admissible under art. 81 of the Constitution. Not on a personal basis, I believe that a serious reflection is needed on the use of Article 81, in the sense that sometimes it does not seem absolutely clear the financial criticality that an amendment determines. In particular, the amendments we have proposed take part on the ISEE thresholds in order to calculate for the calculation of the income and wealth situation only the net income actually received by each individual member of the household during the reference year. Moreover, we believe that the possession of a single dwelling where the person or family lives should not be considered as an element that could affect the right to certain social benefits because the good determines a growth of its own indicator of the economic situation. Despite the rejection of our proposals for amendments, Forza Italia, who is always attentive to legislative proposals that concern policies for the family and children, still believes to be in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u27	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Article 3 of our Constitution has finally been implemented, with the equalisation of the different categories of Italian citizens. In fact, this measure puts an end to discrimination between employees and self-employed persons, since the latter will now be able to receive the allowance for dependent children. With the progressive lowering of the birth rate of Italians, new laws are needed to encourage the fruitfulness of our young people. Officially, the law that is currently under discussion and valid until the end of the year should do so, but I think that the small number of cheques provided for by this method of calculation penalises, instead, the birth rate of Italians. It creates rather onerous expectations for future budgets, even if the measure that will be in place from next year will follow in the same footsteps. In fact, if a couple of young people, both workers, wanted to have children, it is very easy that the resulting ISEE is close to 40,000-50,000 euros and the cheque designed to encourage their parenthood would be only 30-40 euros per month, really too little to encourage them in this sense, also because a kindergarten costs an average of 6,000-7,000 euros per year. Instead, a couple with low or incomeless ISEE, having five dependent children, gets to receive 1,089 euros monthly, to add then also the income of citizenship, so there could be a concrete possibility that the subsidy guaranteed by the State is higher than the average salary guaranteed by any company. This law, therefore, could in practice discourage the search for a job. If Italy really wanted to encourage the birth of its fellow citizens, it could be much more useful for the cost of maternity to be entirely borne by the State, without charges for employers, including the contribution relief for staff in place of maternity workers. The above, if added to a good welfare system, to the accompaniment and integration of our young people into the world of work, offering them working and economic stability, would be a real flywheel for a robust birth in our country. In order to remain with the measure before us today, it seems to me that the great weight of the ISEE in the distribution of the allowance creates considerable disparities in the treatment of children. This does not happen in other European countries that have adopted suitable policies to stimulate the birth, as well as in other countries it is not recognized the allowance for children to non-European foreigners without the status of political refugee or international protection, which instead with the bill in question will be bestowed in Italy almost all. This bill, therefore, more than encouraging the birth of Italians, seems to me yet another welfare measure against poverty: I think we are really a good and magnanimous country. Too bad that the expenditure of all this is a deficit and borne by future generations of Italians and that, precisely with this measure, we run the risk that they will not be born enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u30	Mr President, Italy has been going through a very long period of denatality: it has been thirteen consecutive years that we have been less born every year than the previous one. Moreover, these are absolute records of the history of the Republic: more children were born in Italy when the Italians were less than 40 million, just arrived at the Unity of our Country, than those born today. A little more than a third of the time I was born, and this despite the fact that between 15 and 20 percent of the new born - a percentage not always easy to detect by Istat, if not after a certain period - are foreign children, in the sense of children of both foreign parents (so, foreigners to all effect); sixty years ago, instead, of foreign children in Italy there were some, for example children of diplomats, of some passing worker and little more. 15.30 a.m. (Following MALAN). The collapse is therefore truly epochal. Assuming also that next year there was a sudden recovery of the birth rate, the effects of this situation will continue for decades. More children may be born from 2022 to 2023 - although very little makes us assume that this happens - but the seven, ten or twelve age groups that have remained with very few births will remain at that level, with all the repercussions that this will have on our workforce, on the social security aspects and also on the general development of society. There is also a further effect: people, particularly women - before certain laws are passed only give birth to women; then, when certain measures are adopted, it must be said that men who feel women also give birth to women. [[Applause]] , but they are men - they will be reduced when this major decline in birth rate comes to fertile age. So the effects are very heavy. There are a number of causes, of course: the growing instability of families, even if much lower than other countries; the ever shorter average duration of marriages or couples' relationships (also according to the Constitution, which is likely to be updated, is the environment in which children are born preferably). There are other causes, but there is no doubt that there is also the economic one. Today a couple with an average or even medium-low income level, in which they both work, if they have no children, can behave with some relaxation: of course, with attention to the family budget, can also pay for some luxury, some vacation and some exit to the restaurant. If this same couple has one or two, not to mention three children (which, among other things, is the number that can guarantee the balance of the population: considering all couples or people who do not have children, it is really the indispensable number), we are on the threshold of poverty: people have to measure the cent, because the state today gives couples with children - if it gives something in terms of tax deductions, because above a certain level, very low, it gives absolutely nothing - much less than it cashes in more for everything you have to buy when you have children, from the crib, to the cot, to the bigger car (because a couple can have a small car, while one who has two children needs a car and a bigger house). [[Applause]] It is a bad business to have children at a time when there is already a general economic difficulty. So let the universal single cheque come. Beautiful the name and purpose (to meet the needs of those who decide - courageously, in our country - to have children), which however, at least for now, have to do with a great lack of funds, beyond modulations. There are those in the Commission who have done a commendable job (Senator Floris, Senator Toffanin and Senator Serafini, of course, along with colleagues from other parliamentary groups). However, just make the general statement: today the children of age are about 10 million and the money allocated is 3 billion euros for six months. It is easy to calculate: we are about 50 euros for each child. Therefore, when it comes to figures like 140, 200 or 500 euros it is beautiful, but the average (the one known for a Roman poet) is 40 or 50 euros per month. This evidently does not cause any couple to have children. It is always better than nothing, but the problem is not that there is nothing today: next year these measures will also replace others, even if they are insufficient, that are there today. Therefore behind the name and purpose there is a great risk that the result is even negative, because the resources are those that are and cannot be unlimited. However, when we see that with this rule, in conjunction with the citizenship income allowance, a couple in which no one works can get to take, with three children, 1,700 euros per month, we do not expect that there will be money for those who really should be given it, nor that a person seeks or accepts a job. [[Applause]] In fact, if you go to work, the expenses increase enormously. Even if you receive 1,700 euros (apart from the fact that you don't always like working at all), this amount must be deducted from the expenses for babysitters, kindergarten and all the expenses that you incur for going to work; instead, if you are at home, you take care of your children personally, even with greater human satisfaction. [[Applause]] So let's start with a nice title and get to a nice substance, because for now there are big deficiencies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u31	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u32	Mr President, the League believes that the object of this measure and this debate is of fundamental importance for the future of our country and our society. We are talking about a universal single allowance for dependent children, therefore an instrument that must protect the family, especially if it decides to have children. In a society like ours, in which Christmas is an increasing problem, with data that are not improving over the years, indeed getting worse, it is clear that policy intervention, Parliament and the Government are absolutely necessary and indispensable. Today we are actually talking about a measure that serves to fill the interim phase, which runs from 1 July to 31 December of this year, with the introduction of a temporary allowance for minor children. This against the measure approved in recent months, which instead wants to establish with delegation to the Government a universal single cheque, which will be realized from next year and for those to come. It is therefore a temporary and experimental measure which must only be conducive to a more comprehensive reform. However, we already see in the measure before us the allocation criteria and the resources available, and that is what we want to focus our attention on. The approved measure of delegation to the Government set out to rearrange, simplify and strengthen measures in support of children. The Lega Group calls for an effective guarantee that, when it comes to tidying up and simplifying, there will be an effective strengthening of the resources made available and their effectiveness. [[Applause]] Mr President, as the agenda presented by Senator Pillon, whom I think he will then present, asks in particular, we do not want families to be reordered and simplified so that, rather than receiving more resources, according to our understanding when it comes to strengthening, they can receive fewer. This is something that must be avoided and the agenda presented by the League and approved by the House goes in this direction, because we have a certain habit of distrusting the term simplification. There are often measures in this House that talk about simplification and that in the end do not represent an improvement, but in some cases, for some categories and, in this case, for some families, could be a worsening. We will monitor these aspects and of course the Government's implementing decrees so that this does not happen. Then there is the question of resources. It is clear that those allocated to this temporary measure are inadequate. We are talking about 3 billion resources that have already been allocated for these six months and that we confirm with this type of measure, but there are thresholds for accessing the cheque that is absolutely underestimated. For those who have an ISEE income above 50,000 euros there is nothing. Also in the range between 15,000 and 50,000 euros we speak of 30 euros per month for each minor child in the nuclei with one or two children. These are the criteria that I read in the provision and that I say to the Government and I believe that what is written in the provision is the reality of the facts. There are therefore resources that are inadequate from our point of view. We therefore hope that the resources that will be allocated subsequently, starting next year, will be strengthened and represent effective help to families and not only a commendable attempt to address the issues of birth, of help to families, of the tax burden and of the costs that bear those who have large families. We will look to ensure that this principle is respected and that there is therefore access to these allowances to a larger number of households, that there is a review of the ISEE criteria that do not always represent the actual welfare of families and that there are adequate resources, that do not represent a palliative to a much wider problem. This is the challenge that awaits us as a Parliament, but which obviously concerns the Government in particular. For our part, we can only monitor, because the principle is correct, but the answer must be absolutely adequate and in line with the expectations of our citizenship. Families are in a serious crisis and we must all be aware of that. The issue deserves much more attention and insight than the current ones that other parties want to put first on the political agenda, which must certainly be addressed. The real challenges of our community, however, are these: denatality, the protection of families and those who play a fundamental role in our society. The League on these issues is there and will ensure that the Government's answers are adequate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u33	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u34	Mr President, it is not only thinking of our dramatic demographic policies that we are a country with zero growth that looks with sympathy, hope and optimism at a measure that favours children, but it is also thinking of the strong glue that in family life constitutes the possibility of maintaining between the spouses and the people who make up the family that minimum level of serenity and positivity that ensures that the blessed effort of daily work, when there is, can also open up to a look of hope for the future in order to offer the children something more than is strictly necessary. The measure, which, on the one hand, in some way would like to be an incentive to birth and, on the other, a cohesive glue within the family unit, is born in the best intentions and - I dare say - among the broadest expectations on the part of all of us. We want the country to grow more cohesively and in solidarity; we want the children to have among their rights also to complete their studies, for example university studies, without making Italy a taillight country within Europe itself. Precisely because we believe in the value of a positive measure that meets the needs of families and the specific needs of children, we believe that this runs the risk of being a commercial measure. It is true that the risks are of two types and my colleagues have denounced them both: on the one hand, in the face of particularly low incomes (I think of those who receive a citizenship income and who, to my amazement, do not even have to ask the question, because it is automatically credited to them, without having to take the trouble to "throw away" to get that cheque), there is the possibility that people - we experience it in this period of economic recovery of the country - will adapt to measures to combat poverty, rather than incentive to the birth rate; on the other hand, there is also the possibility of those who consider them completely inadequate. In this transitional period, which separates us from 31 December, for families already receiving family allowances we are talking about an increase of 37 euros. Probably a significant figure. Each of us, if he goes out with a friend one night for a happy hour, spends 37 euros; probably, if two guys go out, like last night, to celebrate Italy's victory to Europeans, with a beer and a pizza they spend 37 euros. How can this figure become, even on a symbolic level, an incentive to birth? How can a parent feel encouraged to have a child? We know the anecdote that says that everyone would like to have three children; then they marry and want two, possibly a male and a female, always referring to well-established identities, and then instead they are satisfied with a single son, because they cannot keep more. How do you think about this figure? Here we have a total meltdown: on the one hand, the plan of desires, what we call of having to be, which we perceive as the ethically sensitive plan, what a State should do to meet the needs of families and the desire for motherhood and fatherhood of couples who have consolidated their relationship and their lives together; on the other hand, the total and absolute inadequacy of the measure related to needs. And we know that, when they are not due, the rights, in a certain sense, are like from the feet of clay, that in fact end up not even being such. During this transitional period, in these famous months, from now until December, this measure should be an encouragement. However, we are faced with the economic inadequacy of the proposal and very often, even with the difficulty for families, of meeting this type of aid in relation to a fact that, - attention, it is important to bear in mind - that a certain level of inflation has been threatened. While the economic measure comes from poverty that currently makes the income received and the income actually obtained very low, at the moment the fragility of the results is such that we run the risk that the families that can access it in the first instance are very few: in just two days they have asked to access this transitional allowance 75,000 people. It's very little. It is not enough to live with symbols, which, it is true, are important, as it is that promises broaden the heart, but if they do not turn into a concrete reality, from illusion comes disappointment, and this can be very dangerous for our families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u35	Senator Carbone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the measure we are about to adopt is the result of a very long work, born from a proposal by Italy Viva and already recognized by the previous Government. The conversion of this decree-law allows a real revolutionary reform that the country has been waiting for years and that comes at a time when it is extremely necessary to support Italian families and help them plan the restart after the dramatic crisis caused by the pandemic. The single check is a big piece of the largest and most general family act that the government has approved and that Parliament will also discuss at some time. As is well known, it provides financial resources from the seventh month to the eighteen years of age; it extends to the twenty-one years when there are important training and education activities and has a specific formulation also in terms of financial indications for children who have disability problems. It is a measure that offers an important contribution, ranging from 168 euros per child up to 217, if they have more than two. To date, seven days from the start, more than 150,000 questions have arrived. You can apply for access to the benefit until September 30th, taking back checks from July 1st. This large number of questions received makes us understand all the goodness of the norm that we strongly wanted. At the heart of the action of the measure, therefore, there is finally the family. Italy Viva and this Government have finally - and I stress the adverb, Minister - put the family at the center not only of the action of the Executive, but also of the development of the demographic policies of our country. From 1945 to today, in fact, the births have halved. The Istat in the latest data shows resounding figures: little more than 400,000 births a year versus about 700,000 dead. In this natural balance so negative, it is evident that, without urgent interventions for our country, there are only difficult prospects of development and growth on the horizon. Thanks to the cheque we can reverse the fearful phenomenon of half births and get on track with the most equipped countries in the matter of family policies, finally proposing us as a hospitable land for young people, for young couples and for families who want to continue to believe and invest in the future. Italy is a country that has built, over the years, many tax advantages: there are about 500 those that are recorded, but of these very few have been dedicated or are dedicated to the family. The check is unique because it reorganizes a jungle of sizes, bonuses and stratified deductions over time. It simplifies the lives of families and families, allowing them to receive a measure of planning and stability over time. It is an activating measure, as we often say, because it stimulates the family to project into the future and to make courageous choices. Family policies bear the best fruit when they have a stability character, because they give autonomy in the economic design of life. Thanks to the single allowance, each month a family will know that they can count on a fixed amount up to twenty-one years of age of each child. We are facing a real revolution for our country. We should be able to allow the same families to request the activation of the universal cheque, as well as the INPS and the CAF, also through the patrons - as I said earlier - who are currently excluded and - let me say - have often, at this particular moment, replaced themselves free of charge to the work of the INPS. It is an investment in social development, which does not make families dependent on spot state aid, like other unnecessary welfare measures. Italy Viva proves to be once again a great reformist movement, which does not propose commercial measures and without vision; it is instead a healthy place to present concrete and achievable proposals for the future of our country. We have at heart the Italy of tomorrow, an Italy that, thanks to the decisive contribution of Minister Elena Bonetti, to which all our gratitude goes for the work constantly and effectively carried out, and thanks to the work of this Government, which we strongly support, makes remarkable and important progress towards civilization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating today in this House is of fundamental importance, because it speaks - and this happens very rarely - of the future. It speaks of the future of the younger generations of us, who will have the honour and burden of being an integral part of our society. We live in a society today, unfortunately conditioned by false myths; the very young generations venerate television characters, musical singers or social stars according to the number of followers on Instagram or Facebook. The real myths, colleagues, in a society like today, are those under 40 who have the ability to make the most revolutionary gesture that can be done today: to build a family and give it a future. [[Applause]] These are the people to whom today's young people should be inspired; and we, who make politics seriously, have the task of supporting them. However - and certainly the pandemic has not helped - we live a historical period in which for the younger generations the work is increasingly precarious, the house a luxury and the retirement a mirage that will never come about. To intervene today, therefore, with a legislative instrument that can help families is a good thing. It is time to deny that popular saying, unfortunately, in which it is said that during the war the Italians were worse than now and yet they brought into the world many more children. This is due to the fact that fortunately in a family often prevails the cultural motivations for having a child over the material ones. However, it is undeniable that today the conditions have changed a lot: putting a child into the world requires much more resources, because the society in which we live today does not allow us to raise a child by dressing him with rags and feeding him with a bowl of milk and bread. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, with the development of modern society, the States have begun to raise the problem of helping families to support their children and Italy has certainly not shone in the past decades. It is known to all that our country is one of those with the lowest fertility rate and, at the same time, it is one of those that allocate less resources for families and children. This is a contradiction, because, of course, if you want to help families, you have to invest in them. According to Eurostat, on average, we are able to allocate 3.2 percent of Italian public spending to family policies, compared with 3.6% of the European average: Germany spends 3.7 percent, France 4.2 percent, Sweden 5% and Denmark as much as 8.6 percent. Only Spain can beat (not only football, after last night's suffering victory), since in recent years their investments do not reach 2%. On the other hand (but we certainly do not want to create a conflict between young people and the elderly), we are at the forefront of retirement pensions, which means 32.8% of public spending against 26.4% in France, 25% in Germany, 21.4% in Sweden, 16% in Denmark. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us welcome the single allowance as a means of helping young generations, provided that it is not seen as a form of combating poverty, which should be dealt with in other ways, certainly better than the income of citizenship, but as an intervention for the benefit of investment in children, which is considered to be a public good. Taking a quick look at some European countries, we find that in France there are about 130 euros per month with the second child, in Germany about 200 euros per month for each child, in the United Kingdom 100 euros to the first child and 60 euros to the next, in Sweden 100 euros to the most child bonus, in Holland 100 euros per child. We also have to worry about the distortions that some short-sighted social policies produce in Italy. The few resources that our country devotes to children produce families with low incomes, which are close to poverty relative to the number of children. We can therefore argue that Italy is a country that discourages birth, so we too are of the idea that it is necessary to intervene on this issue, but this does not prevent in any way from pointing out what could be improved. According to the decree-law it will be the INPS, in fact, to manage the implementation of the temporary single cheque, to which the application for the bridge cheque will have to be forwarded, of which approximately 1,8 million families will benefit. The common objective is that of a universalist system, which will benefit employees, self-employed, professionals, incapients and many other categories. The risk, as was apparent from the hearings made by the 11th The Commission is an unbalanced distribution of the effects to be taken into account when implementing the reform; a reform which would appear to want to keep some existing institutions in place, creating considerable confusion for the family that will want access to these support. Another aspect that we would like to consider is how to reduce the difference in support between self-employed and subordinate workers. The experience of the latter period, linked to the difficulties due to the pandemic for the Covid, has clearly revealed the inacceptability of income support policies often addressed asymmetrically to employees. Some data that have been provided to us in the Commission show that self-employed workers have experienced the largest drop in family incomes since the beginning of the crisis: as many as 51.7% have experienced a drop in income and 8.8% have lost more than 50%. It is a fact that in the field of self-employment there have been differences in the levels of coverage provided by the support measures put in place by the Government, as well as different ways of accessing them, which have systematically penalised the self-employed: this is a problem which must be addressed. Also the resources deserve a reflection, because even as a regime they will not allow to achieve the objective of an average monthly allowance close to 250 euros for each child, up to twenty-one years of age, as announced by President Draghi inspired by other countries of the European Union. Although values are qualitatively appreciable for the benefits, they significantly reduce the impact of the reform and its claim of universality. In almost all the European countries that have advanced important and convinced policies to support the birth, it is noted that these same measures are not proportionate in relation to family income because the risk is that the use of the ISEE indicator to delimit the number of beneficiaries of the single allowance actually produces the effect of penalising family incomes compared to the individual ones. In France, for example, the family quotient has been introduced which divides part of taxable income and the relative rate of levy in relation to family loads, obtaining exactly the opposite effect to the ISEE. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my last concern: the cores composed of five components, of which three minor children already receive citizenship income and possess an ISEE that stands at around 7,000 euros will be able to receive a total of 1,653 euros per month, as much as 19,800 euros per year, a figure destined to rise further if the family resides in a rented house and is entitled to the contribution of 200 euros. Finally, this is certainly positive in a welfare logic, but it could be a deterrent to an active behavior in the search for employment: trouble to stumble into the grip of assistantism that does not have an end and a project linked to the future. For us as Brothers of Italy it would be an unforgivable mistake towards those many families who dream of a family compatible with a satisfying professional and social growth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u39	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u40	Mr President, I believe that this so-called bridge decree, of a transitional nature for the universal single cheque, must accompany us positively towards the full and very important reform that will be in place from 1 January 2022. I would like to mention briefly, although the rapporteur and other colleagues who have spoken have done so very precisely, the value for all of us extraordinarily innovative of this reform which was finally approved in the Senate last March, because the single universal cheque aligns Italy with the best European experiences. I think this was a very important choice. A single universal cheque is introduced: unique because it replaces, as we have said, all current forms of support for families (deductions, baby bonuses, moms bonuses, third child bonuses); universal because it will be paid every month to all, without distinction between workers and employees, self-employed, capacious and not large, with a surcharge for those who have children with disabilities. It was and is a reform expected from the country, necessary, positive, that - I mean - the Democratic Party has promoted since the last legislature, with respect to which we have all returned to be convinced; a reform that simplifies a complex and composite system, closes the season of bonuses in rain and introduces a structural instrument, safe and continuous to meet the needs of families. To this, however, I would also like to add a reflection: it is a concrete and important novelty, first of all because - I would like to clarify this, because sometimes in the public debate there is some different opinion, albeit legitimate - the care of children, the growth of children is not only a private fact, but it is a fact of the whole society. [[Applause]] That is what we are doing with a reform operation with a single universal cheque. Then, because the cheque is universal and, therefore, not linked to any type of work. Moreover, we finally overcome the limits and paradoxes of Italian welfare. This too must be said: we overcome limits and paradoxes of Italian welfare, also because, from this point of view, we include every type of family, even poor families. That's the point, because we put the children, the sons and the daughters in the middle. This is, in my opinion, a particularly important element, also because I want to emphasize that the choice of the single and universal cheque fills a void and marks a profound change of our welfare and culture according to which our welfare has been built. In fact, with this reform we aim to have a universalist approach to welfare, with resources dedicated and distributed differently from previous models and, among other things, from this point of view also particularly effective. So, in our opinion, this reform combines resources with concreteness. Of course, adequate resources must be put in place to complete and effectively carry out this reform, which is moving towards the universal sense of the social protection network. I am aware, however, that we must be able to place this important reform within a broader context: and the Minister knows that. I want to reiterate this concept, because sometimes the idea that the universal single allowance is sufficient to promote women's employment reappears. It's got nothing to do with it. It is a measure dedicated to children, as European experiences tell us. It puts us, however, precisely in a system logic, if we really want to tackle what we all call the necessary system demographic policies. I would like to mention two positive facts here in this House, which are taking place with a view to general understanding. If I am not mistaken, today in the House of Deputies the debate begins, among other things with the rapporteur, a young Member, Chiara Gribaudo, of the measure on equal pay. This is another fundamental part, as is the important discussion that has taken place on the bill, the family act, in which we begin to discuss the sharing of care work. I say all this because, if the universal single cheque does not place it within a system vision, a revival of the centrality of women's employment, we risk having made a great reform, having addressed this issue, but, in reality, not having overcome the broad and system obstacles that prevent support for birth and families. I wanted to stress these two elements because at the G20 our President-in-Office of the Council said something important to me: Italy too is far behind from this point of view, on the valorisation and investments that public and private companies and companies must make to remove all the obstacles that prevent this equality. From this point of view, in thanking the rapporteur, the President and all the members of the various groups of the Commission, I work for the efforts we have made since we have really done targeted and serious work on the amendments, including with the support of the Government, I would like to highlight a point on which we will have to pay attention when implementing this transitional decree in practice. We must pay attention to the second principle of income, because otherwise we risk a contradiction on the establishment and purpose of the reform. Let us pay attention to this aspect. In fact, the second perpetrator is women and, being identified in the decree a very strong roof and progressiveness, there is a risk of discouraging women's work. This, I repeat, is an attention which I ask the House and the Government to pay because otherwise we would not only deny the role of this very important reform, but would do exactly the opposite of what we had proposed to do. That is why I believe that we have worked well and again I thank you for all this. The Democratic Party knows that this is a transitional measure, which lasts six months; therefore, on the one hand it has its contradictions, on the other hand it has tried to ensure that the spirit of the proposed amendments was also exactly in line with the strict set-up of the aims for which we approved the reform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u41	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u42	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today contains urgent measures concerning temporary allowances for young children, and it is - let us remember - a bridge measure to anticipate the advent of the single universal allowance which should have entered into force since 1 July with a lot of other prospects. The latter is in fact a proactive measure that absorbs existing family allowances and deductions, therefore it is also aimed at a simplification system and is aimed at a wider audience than the one that will receive the bridge cheque. This measure, on the other hand, is a transitional measure in its own right and is aimed at families with minor children who are not entitled to family allowances: self-employed persons, self-employed persons, families who have not been employed for a long time, and deprived families. It is a shared objective, especially for the historical moment that we are living and because it is essential to support the family in a structural way. In the same way, however, child support services and incentives to promote predominantly female employment can no longer be postponed, because this is not really the measure to support female employment. [[Applause]] It is undeniable that our country has a duty to engage more with regard to the expenditure of social protection for the family-children function, well inferior to other European countries, with data relating to 2018 - I would like to remind you - distant from each other: about 1.1 percent of GDP compared to a European average of 2.2%. However, the measure under consideration presents some critical issues, as we had already pointed out, Minister, in the discussion of the delegation law on universal and unique cheque and we really ask you to take them into account in the drafting: many families are excluded, starting from those belonging to the middle class, most in need of welfare mechanisms in order to better reconcile life and work. The resources allocated are limited: 3 billion for the next six months. Therefore, more resources are needed to effectively increase the audience of beneficiaries. Here, too, we reiterate that the indicators of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) are used to determine the recipients, but they do not guarantee maximum coverage, because we think that today the capital indicators are no longer in line with the real economic situation of the households: we start from a minimum threshold of 7,000 euros up to a maximum of 50,000 euros. If, on the one hand, this system does not encourage an increase in income (e.g. citizens' income recipients, who are also beneficiaries of the allowance, who do not want to find employment if they increase their income, because they still reduce their income), on the other hand, the maximum threshold of EUR 50,000 will not bring many families among the beneficiaries, especially young couples. We know that the threshold of 50,000 euros will be easily exceeded precisely for the heritage, which are part of the culture of our country. Since this measure is intended as a support measure for the family, as I mentioned earlier, it is also affected by the citizens' income perceptions. And the problem is not so much the intervention of welfare addressed also to them for parenting, but the fact that, as it was conceived - we repeat again - the income of citizenship does not work [[Applause]] and will work even less with the addition of additional benefits. Simulations of the INPS - I would like to remind you - provide income for citizens' income recipients over 1,150 euros per month with three dependent children, so really a disincentive to work. Employment, let alone women, is not encouraged. Too much welfareism is not properly addressed, Minister, it is not the prerogative of proper support for families, but of disincentives to work and it is an obstacle to the world of enterprise which, on the other hand, seeks workers. [[Applause]] Citizenship income must therefore be rethought to finally turn it from passive policies to active policies. The temporary allowance, as well as the universal single allowance, is intended as support for the birth and family, not as support for income. Forza Italia believes in support for birth, believes in support for the family and work and that is why, among the proposals for tax reform recently approved in the competent Joint Committees of the Chamber and Senate, Forza Italia has included an important tax deduction for the second working spouse, which is mainly represented by women. [[Applause]] In this way, in addition to economic support for dependent children, women's employment is encouraged. I believe that a change of pace is also necessary in this respect. The measures of recent years have fostered welfare. Today this welfare must be overcome, in view of a resumption of the country system, with interventions that stimulate active policies for work. Certainly no one wants to question the social and moral value of aid for those who need it, for those who are difficult to integrate into the world of work, but we believe that support should be designed to achieve objectives in relation to the creation of employment and support for the family. Even the bridge allowance, however, is not enough, just as the universal single allowance will not be enough, which will have to be conceived as less income support and more support for the birth, but which all corollaries must not fail to help, above all, mothers in work. If one thinks about the support of parenthood, one cannot but think about the establishment of an integrated system that provides different services to the family, including kindergartens, for example, [[Applause]] , which goes beyond economic sustenance, which must be fair to all, among other things. If we want to achieve a level of development equal to other European countries, taking advantage of the great opportunities of the PNRR, we must necessarily imagine a system that moves organically around the family, connecting the different processes and not focusing exclusively on assistantism. In this process that sees us rethinking and modernising the country system, the state must place itself in a different way than the citizens, must assume the role of accompaniment, also with regard to parenting. Italian families are the real wealth and need to be supported, to have a job in order to be able to raise their children in serenity and this is the real support: looking at children means looking to the future and giving value to our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u43	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that today's issue is not the final one. We are dealing with a bridge check and, however, it is good to start from the words of Senator Toffanin, who just preceded me and whom I fully agree, namely that we must address the issue of birth with a systemic look, with a system attention that cannot be limited to the economic aspect and the issue of the single cheque. I speak for myself in this Assembly about the statements made by the National Association of Large Families, whose chairman, Mario Sberna, who was a Member of Parliament in the last parliamentary term, warned us that the single cheque was - his own words - a lie. I do not know if this is the case, but certainly the data that Mario Sberna brings to this House deserve our utmost attention: according to the research of the National Association of Large Families, the single cheque will never cover the deductions that will be removed and the ISEE mechanism must be changed because it disadvantages families with more children. According to this Association, half of the large families will have to resort to the safeguard clause, which means that this rule is worsening. We then come to the substance of the arguments put forward by the recipients of this rule. I would remind my colleagues in this House that large families, i.e. those with three or more children, are the most exposed to the risk of falling below the poverty line: we are talking about an increase, from 2006 to 2020, which has led large families to move from 3.8 percent to 20.7% below the poverty line. If we want to make policies to support the family, let us at least try to do them well, so that they are effective, that they achieve the goal and that they do not become mere flagship rules. We have removed: checks to the family, deductions for dependent children, deductions for families with four or more children, the check to the third child, the bonus moms, the bonus at birth. All this to give in return a single cheque, which however will be parametrated according to the ISEE module. I was there when the ISEE was introduced, when this unfair system of calculation of familiar substances was realized; I was there and I remember perfectly who was the interlocutor who wanted to write the ISEE as it is written today, unfairly and unjustly. We must have the courage to put our hands on the ISEE and find parameters that are really suitable for evaluating family loads. You have to explain to me what it makes sense in the calculation of the ISEE to introduce the valuation of the amount of money present in the current account at 31 December. We know that families at Christmas get gifts, perhaps from grandparents or uncles, and put them on the bank account, and then they are penalized because the ISEE is calculated on the basis of the amount of the current account at 31 December. If they had indicated the 25th of the month, instead of the 27th, we might have found the bank account empty because many of these families do not arrive at the end of the month. Beyond the jokes - which, unfortunately, are not such but are realities with which our large families are fighting every day - we have asked and obtained - and I thank the rapporteur, who sits next to me - that some of our agendas which contain the great concern in this matter should be accepted. We have already talked about this with the Government, and I acknowledge this to Minister Bonetti that he has paid attention and listened to us. The measure of the ISEE must be changed because it is unfair and because it is built more to favour the patrons who collect the ISEE declarations than to favour the families, who instead have the right to a fair assessment of their wealth. Moreover, as I was saying, this measure also has a very heavy impact on the already very delicate situation of separated families. The latter and those who experience separation and divorce see a breakdown that, in our view, is correct and that is: the single allowance is paid in half among parents who live their parenthood in the shared foster scheme. We know that they are the vast majority in our country, over 90%; both parents deserve trust and both, participating in the child's maintenance and education costs, deserve to receive, at 50% default, except of course different agreement, the single allowance to equal extent. It is equally important - and we have agreed on this - that the allowance be guaranteed and insured also for those who are not parents, but who in fact exercise parental responsibility over the child. We totally agree on that. However, the cultural plan cannot be removed from the economic plan, and that is what I would like to conclude my speech. The measure of the single cheque does not solve all the problems, it is not a panacea, it is not the solution to meet the needs of our country in terms of birth. I am surprised to read that the only check would be the magic wand, when we all know that bringing a child from the cradle to the university costs about 250,000 euros; divided into twenty-four years means 800 euros per month. If 800 euros per month are to be paid by each family, tell me, at best, how much the single allowance affects: it affects to an extent that it is not even a quarter of what families have to spend to bring their children to university. But I ask you one question: who will be paid pensions when those sons and daughters are graduated? To all of us who sit in this House, to all of us who are currently working in our country. Is the fact that our children and daughters can get to graduation and a job that allows them to carry out the activity they prefer or not good for the country? Is the fact that many children are born, that the children that each couple wants to bring into the world are born, or is it not, good for our country? Let us start to tell ourselves these things, we begin to recover a culture that takes care of families who daily accompany their children to school, go back to them, take them to make music or soccer in the afternoon, keep them in their studies, listen to them with patience daily and assist them in their growth, take care of their successes and their failures. We forgot the family. We're forgetting the family and it won't be the one check that makes us remember. They need brave politics. You need to remove the household item from the expenditure chapter to put it under the investment chapter.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u45	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur. (16.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u46	Mr President, more than one reply, my response is to be a reaction to the speeches since I like to socialise with my colleagues in this House. All the interventions were aimed at clarifying. I interpret the points made by my colleagues as support and as accompanying tracks for the implementation of the implementing decrees. These are therefore legitimate concerns. For the rest, there is little to add. I am very pleased and thankful to my colleagues, colleagues, the Commission and the Government. A truly certain job has been done. I thank the Minister for the patience with which she was able to accompany the constructive confrontation in the Commission. Mine is therefore a thank-you reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u47	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u48	Mr President, I will make a brief speech to thank all the Senators and Senators of the Groups who have spoken in the debate. I would like to express my special thanks for the work done in the Commission, of course, to the rapporteur, the President, the parliamentary groups and all the political forces that have contributed, both with the debate and with the proposal for amendments and agendas, to enrich the text and to give a direction to the implementation following the decree-law that we are called to convert and the legislative decrees provided for by the delegation law approved by the Senate at second reading on 31 March. The work carried out has once again seen the transversality of all political forces and I believe that once again we must give an extremely positive recognition to the recomposition of politics that on the issues that concern education, the new generations, families and investment in humanity is showing the image of a cohesive country that finally knows how to make courageous and concrete choices. Just a few words on the demands made in the debate. I want to confirm that the decree-law follows a commitment from the Government, which I myself had assumed, to give full and prompt concreteness to the law of delegation approved by the Senate on 31 March and, after three months, the possibility of already providing a cheque, albeit in a bridge form, follows exactly this commitment. Having to provide for a bridge measure corresponds to the fact that the cancellation of tax deductions and allowances to the household in the middle of the year would create severe hardships for families. We have also worked, in agreement with the Commission, in full coherence with the principles of the delegation law itself. In fact, it is an investment measure in Italian households. The resources of the 3 billion are added to all the other resources that are already in place. To no Italian family will be removed a euro: are added 3 billion euros and this means an increase of 40% of the resources destined to the Italian families [[Applause]] , (an annual of 6 billion is equal to about 40% of the current 14 billion used for investments for our families). It is an investment and not a welfare. I agree with this and I very much agree with this request because it is part of a reform. The measure in our examination is the first piece of realization of a process of systemic reform that materializes with the universal single cheque and that sees in the provision of the family act - among other things in these days under discussion in the House - the full realization. This is an integration of measures concerning education, women's work, sharing of care and investing in young people. The issue of the economic dimension is certainly important. Compared to some advanced demands regarding quantification too, unfortunately in our country we are not in a situation of economic status of children particularly advantageous. According to a recent simulation by Istat, 50% of the children in our country live in households with less than 10,000 euros of ISEE; this means that 50% of the children in our country will receive a cheque between 167 and 130 euros per month, increased by 30% for nuclei with more than three children. A remaining 30% will receive a check between €130 and €70 per month. With regard to the excluded minors, I note that the cores with more than 50,000 ISEE are about 3%. We are talking about a universalistic measure precisely because it also maintains deductions and because it has a distribution also of economic impact. I close by saying that the principles recalled are fully shared by the Government - we have tried to translate them with our colleagues Franco and Orlando, together with President Draghi - and respond to the choice of finally giving concreteness to investment policies to promote birth, parenthood and education. I believe that this means giving our country the full implementation of equal opportunities for all and for all. I conclude with the words of President Draghi, who mentioned the general states of birth, precisely talking about this instrument: time has come to give the new generations of our country back the possibility of having hope and confidence in their future. In order for the new generations to choose to trust their future, our task is to invest ours today in the future. And this check is the first step of that investment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u49	I would like to inform the Presidency that the opinions of the 1st standing Commission and the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report, have been received and distributed. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the contact person, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, amendment 6.0.1 is not possible due to the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled Amendment 1.3 to promote the same treatment as non-European foreigners with dependent children in many European countries, who are not entitled to any cheques if they are deprived of their status as political refugees or of international protection. I put it to you all so that you may possibly want to approve it because it is of fundamental importance. Otherwise, with the measure under consideration almost all foreigners present in Italy or, in any case, the vast majority are entitled to the single allowance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u51	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u52	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 1.1 (text 2), against amendment 1.2 and against amendment 1.100. On Amendment 1.3 just put forward by Mrs Pizzol, I would ask the presenter to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am therefore against Amendments 1.4, 1.5, 1.7 and 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u53	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u54	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Does Senator Pizzol accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.3 extended by the rapporteur? Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr President, and I ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Pizzol and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 are foreclosed following the adoption of amendment 1,100. Having been requested to do so, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u55	Mr President, with Amendments 2.1, 2.4 and 2.0.1 we are essentially proposing calculation alternatives to the ISEE, which, in a sense, everyone has highlighted as lacking. Specifically, with amendment 2.1 we identify three economic evaluation ranges by providing a cheque, for each child, of 100 euros if included in the age range from 0 to 6 years, of 80 euros between 6 and 12 years and of 60 euros between 12 and 18, eliminating as a reference the ISEE. Progressivity at that point would be given by the age of the children present in the household. Amendment 2.4 aims to extend the ISEE maximum threshold from 50,000 to 60,000 because - as many speakers have pointed out during the general discussion - 50,000 is a threshold that includes the average categories and, therefore, those families in which there are two workers who have an average salary. Similarly, 2.0.1 aims to introduce a revision of the calculation methods. This, Mr President, is what we have called for in the Commission for a change of agenda which has been accepted by the Government; it is not included in the agenda. In any case, this is a real modification of the ISEE: we propose the revision of the calculation of income that today is before deductions; in this case we would propose it net of regional, municipal excise duties and also of Irpef withholding taxes, clearly gradually based on the number of members of the household. The share of assets for the calculation of the ISEE does not foresee the fixed part to 20%, but varies inversely proportional to the number of children, and therefore more children are present in the household lower (5, 10, 15 and 20 percent). Finally, we propose other coefficients in relation to the presence of elderly people, minors or children of age, workers or not, students or not. I conclude by saying that another change in calculation is the coefficient that should be set by the ISEE thresholds, and it is a middle way between the family quotient and the household factor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u56	Mr President, Amendment 2.3 calls for a change in the agenda which I believe has been accepted, subject to the rewording that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u57	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u58	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 2.1 and to Amendment 2,100. Amendment 2.3 - as my colleague Mr Floris said - has been turned into an agenda, on which I am in favour. I am against Amendment 2.4. Amendment 2.2 has been withdrawn from the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u59	Senator Fedeli, do you confirm the withdrawal of Amendment 2.2?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u60	Yes, Mr President, Amendment 2.2 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u61	Amendments 2.5 and 2.6 have been turned into an agenda, on which I am in favour. I am against Amendment 2.7 and I am against Amendment 2.8. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G2,100 and G2,101, provided that both are reworded with the inclusion of the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to." Finally, I am in favour of the G2.0.1 agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 2.0.1 (text 2), provided that it is reworded with the inclusion of the formula to consider whether it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. On the agenda, the opinions were in favour of a request for reformulation which had been accepted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u63	If there is no opposition, I consider the proposals for rewording tabled by the rapporteur on the agenda accepted by the proposers. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senators Drago and Maffoni, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.3 has been changed to agenda G2.3 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.4 tabled by Senators Drago and Maffoni, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.2 has been withdrawn. Amendments 2.5 and 2.6 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.5, which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The agendas of the day G2.100 (text 2), G2.101 (text 2) and G2.0.1, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 3, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u64	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3,100 and 3.1 (text 2) and against Amendments 3.2, 3.3. Amendment 3.4 has been turned into an agenda, on which I welcome the inclusion of the formula "to assess the appropriateness of".
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. As regards the G3.4 agenda, a favourable opinion was given with a rewording of the commitment to the Government. It is a change in relation to the assessment of the economic and income situation of both parents and not of the ISEE: it invites the Government to assess the appropriateness of the first line, and then the distribution of the allowance between the two parents can take place on the basis of the income and economic situation of each of them. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Vecchis, do you accept the rewording of the G3.4 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u66	Mr President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u67	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.4 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u68	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 4,100 and against Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u69	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u70	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u71	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 5,100 and 5.1 (text 2) and against Amendment 5.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u72	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u73	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 5.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u76	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 5.0.1 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u77	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion on this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u78	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u79	Mr President, the government is available. Having made the assessment in the Commission, we confirm availability.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u80	Do we already have a text? I would like to address the rapporteur, since he has been discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u81	The opinion supports the commitment to evaluation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u82	Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.0.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 6.0.1 is improbable. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u83	Mr President, I welcome Amendment 7,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u84	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u85	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 7,100 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u86	Mr President, I am against Amendment 8.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u87	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u88	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the agenda Gx1.0.1 referred to Article 1 of the bill of conversion, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u89	Mr President, I am in favour of the Gx1.0.1, subject to reformulation with the Government's commitment to assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u90	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u91	Senator Pillon, do you accept the invitation to reformulate the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u92	I welcome the proposal for a reformulation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u93	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda Gx1.0.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u96	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, today is an important day, because we are discussing a rule that extends rights, resulting in the arrival of resources to the people most in need. A allowance is introduced for families with minor children who have not so far been entitled to family allowances. In particular, the allowance - as we know - is directed to the unemployed parents, self-employed, precarious or direct farmers. We call this measure a bridge because it enters into force from 1 July to 31 December, until 1 January 2022 the delegation to the Government will enter into force to rearrange, simplify and strengthen the measures in support of dependent children through the universal single allowance. In essence, while earlier public policy support went to families because of work or non-work, and therefore the condition of parents, now the single universal grant establishes a principle: the help is to children as children. It is a very important change in size. In this sense, the rule that we are going to vote on is a bridge, therefore, not only because it establishes immediate interventions, but also because before we had separate islands, that is, every working condition had its right to the allowance to the household, while now the right is universal. The measure under consideration, however, is also a bridge to more organic reform. System reforms have been called for in this House, such as the family act, approved just the day before yesterday in the Social Affairs Committee, which is a delegation to the Government for the support and enhancement of families and the autonomy of children. I thank Minister Bonetti and the Government for an orderly development of the rules, which allows us to have a more organic vision, as well as to make a broader reasoning than the norm. After the terrible Covid epidemic, with vaccines we can now not succumb to the virus, but start at least a phase of coexistence and the economy is recovering, so much so that we have a study of Ambrosetti the other day that the wind of optimism is rising. And this wind of optimism must breathe into our citizenship, among families, in order to trigger a process of trust, of desire for the future; confidence that raises the economy and employment and must support the birth rate. With some colleagues, across the board, we also asked for a special session of the Senate on Birth, to address the whole issue. All this goes hand in hand with the reforms and resources of the PNRR. We remember that important resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are on these issues. The Minister recalled this: yesterday Draghi came back to talk about the condition of women, appealing to families, because it is time to engage this topic in economic recovery. Draghi appealed to families and companies, because the reconstruction of the country, starting from the work of women, needs a strong investment in work, in equal pay. This is the most important issue to address. In essence, the rule we are discussing is a great lever of confidence for our near future and that of the younger generations. If we consider it in this framework, we can understand and be aware of the scope of the norm in a more organic design. For these reasons, the Italia Viva-PSI Group votes strongly in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u99	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, everything was already planned. And I say this not with satisfaction, because it is a sad confirmation, but with a mixture of anger and regret, interpreting also the feeling of all those families in which the government has, carelessly, created expectations that have been disappointed. Everything was planned and we could resume the proceedings of the session of 30 March last, in which we unanimously approved the measure of the universal single allowance for children, and therefore with the favorable vote also of Brothers of Italy, as happened also in the Chamber eight months before. As early as March 30, however, we have stigmatized the delay and the tight times of a reform that should have entered into force on July 1st and that is a mistake at the origin, in your choice of a draft delegation law, whose times are always uncertain and long. It was already clear that there was not enough room to implement the implementing decrees, which are the only Members to ensure adequate coverage and the entry into force of the measure. On the other hand - and it is not by chance - the government was not able to quantify the figure of the cheque and the interventions of the minister of competence, but also of the President of the Council, they were based on forecasts and simulations that we could define today by their name, that is, spanned by air. In fact, a bridge solution was used, from July to December: the temporary allowance. In April it was already clear that the single cheque was sent back, but only with delay has the measure that we are debating been formalized. I mean, the government has hidden the legislative and bureaucratic constraints that it knew. He's selling the temporary cheque as a victory, which is a political failure. The Government's Plan B, the bridge solution, allows you to save your life thanks to the additional three billions allocated in the 2021 budget, but it is not enough. Moreover, we are very far away not only from the philosophy of the family act, but precisely from the principle of the universality of the single cheque, which should precisely concern everyone and bring together, to a single measure, the measures that exist today. This is about six different subsidies. In short, with a joke I would say that for the government the principle of university is valid when it comes to giving scooters to everyone; but, when it comes to paying diapers for babies, suddenly we abandon universality and become restrictive. [[Applause]] What's the vulnus? We would like to introduce a change of paradigm in the policies of support for the family, of birth and demography and, instead, today, a sort of further bonus is realized, detached from a vision and an organic political strategy of intervention; a measure, precisely, temporary. I must stress that in the background there is still the risk of a short circuit linked to the certification of the ISEE, which is an unfair and discriminatory instrument, which Brothers of Italy proposed to modify, as my colleagues, Senators Maffoni and Dragon, have already explained, which I thank for the work done. The ISEE is very far from the principle of universality as of fairness and, above all, it is far from an ethic of inclusion, which is better represented - in our opinion - by the idea of family quotient and by the model of family factor. Recapitulating, beyond the triumphal declarations, the truth is one: the Government remained bogged down on the single cheque and its storytelling predicted that the measure would enter into force on 1 January 2021, then slipped to 1 July. In fact, the delegation law will enter into force - hopefully - in January 2022, along with a broad tax reform, as I hope. Political vanity and optimism have been spread over the open wounds of Italian families, hard hit by the pandemics. It is made of demagogy; it is hidden until the last slip of the single cheque to 2022. On the other hand, the money was not there; those allocated were insufficient; those of recovery are not yet there and the single universal cheque is included in the reforms accompanying the National Recovery and Resilience Plan when they are made. I must recall the public statements and promises of Prime Minister Draghi, who said to grant EUR 250 per month for each child from 1 July. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that no one will ever have the 250 euros promised. [[Applause]] In fact, it ranges from a minimum of 30 euros to a maximum of 217 euros per child per month and the amount of the allowance according to the ISEE drops, and then collapses, for those who exceed 50,000 euros. I mean, we're talking about a temporary bonus involving a small audience of families, those who don't have family allowances. We are talking about 2 million people, including self-employed, unemployed, incompetent, inactive, employees excluded for income reasons from family allowances; not to mention the perverse logic of accumulation with the income of citizenship, the one that had abolished poverty, which is another fantastic story. It is clear that the temporary allowance - this is a concept that I stress - has nothing to do with family policies and the birth rate, which are in fact the great absentees of the PNRR, and none of the six missions is specifically dedicated - as requested by the Brothers of Italy - to the family and to the birth rate. The government evidently escapes the cost of a child, and I do not say it, but economic policy studies say it: it costs between 250 and 350 euros per month, but the Count and Dragon Governments have forgotten, even in their interventions of refreshment, support and compensation, the load and the number of children. Brothers of Italy presented yesterday a motion on this subject, which I do not illustrate today, but please take it into consideration. In summary, our motion calls for the Government to respect at least the planned deadlines and commitments made for the starting date of January 2022, introducing the fateful, famous single cheque and above all avoiding that families go, net, to perceive less than what they perceive today. A calculation has been made, and I want to say this: two million families, that is, 22% of the audience, risk with the single, futuristic, cheque going to pick up less and I am talking in particular about the large families. Let us return to the temporary allowance, which is identified according to ISEE levels and has very low amounts for the middle class and involves the risk - I stress, President - of a real poverty trap for the most fragile and needy families. The bridge cheque, ladies and gentlemen - I say this clearly on behalf of the Brothers of Italy - appears a mockery. And if this vote - be careful - were to express a judgment on the government's work on this matter, we should vote twice against it, but Brothers of Italy has in its DNA of value, as well as in its programs in support of the birth and the family, to fight the negative demographic trend. It is only in this spirit, that of responsible opposition, that as we have previously expressed a suffered vote in favour of this measure. We do it for those families, in that tristanzuola logic of nothing is better than nothing. But a government that trumpets as an even epochal fact a rag of temporary allowance takes responsibility for failing to make a promise, and must be aware that families do not want gifts, but social justice and recognition of their role. Be aware of this majority of barely expressing a mediocre rather than nothing. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, so much noise for nothing, but be sure that families will remember that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u102	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the decree-law we are about to convert contains a measure of great importance: the temporary allowance for minor children, which is the bridge cheque in the blackberries of the reform of the single and universal allowance for families that we have approved with the delegation law n. 46 of this year: an important delegation law, which has seen the involvement and the protagonism of many political actors; a delegation law of parliamentary origin, proposed by the Democratic Party both to the House and to the Senate, on which two different Governments have worked (even if the Minister is the same) and which was then voted by majority and opposition here to the Senate, almost unanimously and with no votes against. I remember the frame just to point out that the temporary check is called yes temporary, but it is not a bonus among many and it is not a passenger bonus: it is the advance and the trampoline towards a reform of the system that will have to make our tax and the monetary transfers of our welfare stronger and more generous in supporting birth and parenthood. This is an important reform to combat the demographic winter in which our country has fallen for decades. There is no economic statistics of the labour market or the sustainability of welfare that is not attributable in a negative way to this demographic winter, so we need a more generous tax and welfare for families with children. It is also an important reform in order to overcome the iniquities of the previous system, especially the horizontal and vertical ones with respect to certain categories, starting from workers and self-employed and incompetent workers. It is also important that this reform - and I stress this again - has been voted unanimously, because it protects measures against demographic winter from political instability and the volatility of parliamentary majority voting. This is what has happened in other countries such as France, where policies of change and of contrast to demographic decline have been pursued thanks to the agreement of all political forces. Precisely because the single and universal cheque is a system reform, it was and it is necessary to do it well and with the right times. Therefore it is good that it starts from 2022, but it was also necessary to use the resources of 2021 and give an immediate signal of intervention. That is why I support the thanks and appreciation for the work on this measure carried out by the Government, Minister Bonetti and Parliament, starting with the rapporteur, Mr Laus, and President Matrisciano. In the tight time and financial constraints in which this intervention took place, everything possible has been done to use the resources of 2021 starting from two autonomous and incapacious stalls, which were also those most disadvantaged by the previous system. It was the right choice, but now every effort must focus on the single and universal scheme cheque, of which the temporary allowance represents a bridge, but it must not represent a photocopy. There are many nodes still to be dissolved and it was not possible to do so, with these times and with these resources, but it will have to be done with the legislative decrees, explaining all the more reason why the temporary allowance is only a bridge to something different so as not to generate expectations that we will not be able to respond to. I believe that there are two main points. Firstly, to reaffirm the universality of intervention. Universal must not only be the adjective of the name of the check in regime, but must be the figure of the philosophy of the measure that will see the light in 2022. A selective universalism, rightly, but with a temperate selectivity, that makes it clear that the single and universal cheque is not a measure of contrast to poverty (there are others and it is good that the cheque strengthens them, in order to combat child poverty), because in this case we are talking about a measure of support to parenthood and birth, which must reach a broad and generalized part of the Italian population and the middle classes. This is the first knot to melt. The second issue concerns the employment of women. We must ensure that the allowance does not discourage women's employment as a rule. We know that monetary transfers always bring with them a disincentive to the supply of work, especially of those with low incomes - and unfortunately in Italy this often still affects young people and women - but the allowance can be designed to reduce the discouraging effects, especially on women's employment. In fact, where women work more, they also have more children. [[Applause]] These two objectives need to resolve two issues: how we use the ISEE in the universal single cheque and whether the resources we have are sufficient or need a pit stop with the budget law. On the ISEE I think we should use all the degree of flexibility that the delegation law contains on the use of sub-components, to reduce the excessive progressiveness of the temporary allowance, to mitigate certain capital constraints, which could leave out part of the middle classes, and to make the measure truly universal. Again on the ISEE, it will be important - and we had tabled an amendment on this, which has been turned into an agenda, accepted by the Government - to consider how to reduce the burden of income of the second perceor of income within the household in order to promote its employment, since in many cases it still means employment for women. The second point is the resources: we need to know if they are enough. Probably, if we want to make a truly universal measure and reduce the over-progressivity of the bridge cheque, we need more resources. We need at least two billion euros in order for the single and universal cheque not only to reach independent and incompetent, but also to give a real answer to employees and middle classes. The last point - and I am closing - is that, as my colleague Mrs Fedeli recalled, the single universal allowance is an important reform only and as long as it is included in an overall strategy of support for parenthood, birth and female employment. This means, above all, two things. Firstly, social infrastructure: we positively assess the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but let us also be concerned about the management costs associated with those investments and human resources to be exploited to build a strong network of educational services for children and support for parenting. Secondly, it is necessary to move from conciliation policies to sharing policies, so that the choice of meeting the desire to have children, which is usually done in two, does not fall solely on women, nor does the problem of reconciling life and work fall on them alone. [[Applause]] This means rethinking our leave system, imagining institutions like the part-time couple facilitated, making real sharing policies. For these reasons and within this framework, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this important measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u105	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would also like to join in the thanks which have been expressed amply by my previous colleagues to the rapporteur, Senator Laus, the President of the Commission, and the Minister who followed the course of the measure to our examination which we will vote with conviction. The discussion has largely emphasized the technical and temporary nature of the measure, whose object however has a significant significance in the substance, of today's discussion with a view to the actual construction and therefore the implementation of the single cheque. The measure intervenes in the interests of the implementation of Law No 46 of 1 April 2021, which delegates the Government to build the instrument of the single cheque that we voted on in this House, on which we have discussed extensively and on which we will return naturally in the implementation phase. It is an important measure in itself because it represents a sort of stress test precisely in view of the path of implementation of that reform, for the merit and for the meaning itself, because it is a tool intended for families with minor children who are not entitled to family allowances. We are therefore talking about categories which become the target of this measure and which would otherwise not be. From this point of view, those who preceded me are right: it is difficult to divide judgment and assessment of the measure, which we have defined as a temporary bridge, from the overall assessment of the reform process we are talking about. I would like to make three very brief points in this regard. Firstly, there has been talk of a section that I think should inform the whole framework of the welfare policies that we put in place, that is, the universalist one. With the measure to our examination we make a contribution to increase by some degree precisely the stretch of universalism of the instruments that are present today and that are at our disposal, because the temporary allowance widens the audience of the beneficiaries, including categories that otherwise would not have been addressed to such an important measure. I am thinking of the self-employed, the long-term unemployed and the incompetent. With regard to the first category that I mentioned, I say, with some element of intellectual honesty, that perhaps, over the years, even if we have now recovered widely, it is a category that we have neglected from the point of view of an attention that instead had to be kept high and that today we can no longer fail to place, all the more in the light of what has happened in recent months. We have discovered something that we should have known before, namely that many of these workers, so-called self-employed, are part of a very large and segmented group, of which are workers who are in good condition, but there are also many workers who, if I may say so, President, I could define with some force, some sort of neo-proletariat. In other words, we risk measuring ourselves with people who, despite the work they have naturally put on the field with the reason for their talent, cannot support themselves and their loved ones and, therefore, make that work produce a decent wage. We are talking about a real, real difficulty, material conditions, people we have discovered in pandemics much more fragile than we imagined. From this point of view, increasing the universality of instruments such as those we are putting in place, including categories of this kind, goes in the right direction, draws the prospect of a non-segmented world of work, where there are no A-series or B-series workers, workers who enjoy protection systems and those who do not have similar benefits. So, together with universality, it seems to me a positive trait, that of uniqueness. It has already been pointed out. I am referring to the possibility of giving life to a kind of drying of existing instruments because within the plurality of the instruments there are often elements of discrimination and inequalities between workers. If we add to the section of universality also that of uniqueness, all the more reason to take a step in the right direction. (17.30) (Follows LAFORGIA). Secondly, there has been talk of families, the theme of parenthood and birth. The discussion would take us very far. The world in which we live - I am not talking about our country - does not suffer from a birth problem, but from its opposite. However, the so-called advanced countries are objectively measured with a theme: to put especially the youngest in the conditions of being able to create a family and within that family to realize the dream of having children and to keep them materially. We have to measure ourselves with this issue. From this point of view, the temporary cheque and the single cheque that will be built represent a very important element - some of my previous colleagues are right - only if they are a piece of an overall strategy. That was very well said by my colleague, Mrs Fedeli, in general debate. We must reason in terms of the system and we must not fall in love with formulas that are very fascinating in their public projection, but that, when they are precipitated into their implementation, solve very little of the problems they raise. The single allowance, in fact, does not solve the issue of young people and the emancipation of women. It is a part of an overall strategy that must be put in place. There has been talk of equal pay and I add the material condition of people also depends on the set of public goods that the State is able to guarantee to women and men. That piece that adds to the income that those women and those men can produce with their work actually makes the difference. It is a matter of material conditions, but also of the possibility of continuing to carry out one's existence with dignity. Finally, there are the problems; the rapporteur also stressed them in his report. I do not go into the more technical aspects because there would be a lot to talk about. There is an element of accentuation of the measure for families with at least three children. President, through you I say this to Senator Pillon: in this case there is no theme that he emphasized; if anything there is the opposite theme, which comes from the fact that you do not understand why you should not admit that there are actually economies of scale - excuse me - between having a family with two children and having one with three. That relationship will have to be regulated in some way, otherwise we do not understand whether the measure is pronatalist or whether it is actually concerned with the fact that the larger families are more at risk of poverty. In any case, attention must be paid to this issue and the issue of the exclusion threshold, which is likely to be very different and much higher than that provided for the allowance for employees. I close in one line with the only known controversy in my speech: let us stop attacking the income of citizenship and, above all, building a correlation that does not exist and that is not significant between income support measures and the alleged disincentive that these measures would create in search of the job. [[Applause]] There's no one in this country who wants to sit on the couch waiting for public aid. If anything, there are women and men who want to have a decent job, and to find workers who are not - let us put aside this very sickening public debate - just pay them more and in a more dignified way. [[Applause]] So, if anything, there's a pay theme. Rather, the question concerns the element of calculation in the relationship between citizenship income and temporary allowance, because this has an impact on household saving dynamics and on the general progressive system. I repeat, it is a technical issue which, however, has its importance, which will come and will have to be taken care of when we have to deal with the implementation phase of the single cheque. For these reasons, and also in the light of the critical issues I have highlighted, we will vote in favour of the measure and of course we are committed to improving the path of structuring the single cheque when we - very soon - have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u108	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not repeat - out of respect for opinions - the previous speech, but I am speaking as I had planned. As we had pointed out during the examination of the delegation law on the single allowance for children, also with this decree-law several criticalities and iniquities emerged. However, we still want to vote in favour of the measure, given that the resources for families increase by an additional 3 billion, even if they do not happen in the way and as much as we would have liked. Above all, it is welcome that, for the first time, the self-employed and even the unemployed will receive the allowance. Negative is the fact that the cheque is still linked to parameters that do not photograph the exact income and patrimonial situation of a family, with a mechanism too selective that decreases too quickly. We then look at the further problem of married families, which are in fact discriminated against in relation to unmarried families. The sum of the income of two married persons recorded an ISEE higher than that of two people living together. The allowance for two people living together will surely be requested by the partner with the lowest income, so there is no income accumulation in this case. Moreover, the procedure provides that all those who want the cheque must request it from INPS, as if the State were not already aware of those who have children and of those who have children. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the demand must not be made by the recipients of citizenship income, who will now add a cheque to public income, not worrying about the rule of re-employability of these fathers who in their dignity should have tried to be tempted to find a job rather than an income that will certainly not enrich them. In short, it is a reform that discriminates against those who have income above 50,000, that is about 2,300 euros per month - this is the figure we are talking about - that I do not think can be discriminated as such, but above all discourages the creation of the classical family, the one married with children, as we have always known. This allowance must therefore be only a temporary passage - and we will therefore vote in favour - which will have to be modified by a comprehensive reform of the entire tax system designed to the size of the family, as already requested in the tax reform by Forza Italia. [[Applause]] If not, there is a risk of creating a merely welfare state, which is perhaps the objective of some presences in this House. Let me say this with one joke: if even a communist state like China has abandoned the policy of the only child to move on to the incentive for the three children, with the policy of the single allowance we risk moving towards an even worse model than the communist one. The model can be the German model for us, where the allowance for children does not have a level of selectivity, but above all it has the character of universality. But it can also be the French one, where the family quotient is expected, where the reduction is not as drastic as the Italian one; from 7,000 euros you take everything, then you get to resources around 30,000-35,000 euros a year of ISEE, which really represent a salary that does not reach 2,000 euros a month. A tax, what we would like, that should grow with the household, where the difference does not make the allowance for the child or not, but the income that remains at the disposal of the family, net of all the taxes that weigh on the household, including those on the house. In addition, we believe that access to the structures that provide for the growth and training of our children, such as schools, schools and universities, should also be facilitated for all and not linked to income; merit must also be reintroduced. At one time, students who had a good profit had tax exemption, which was not due solely to the student's income, as is the case today. It is time to change this step, which is very important, otherwise the people who are really worthy of scholarships if they go to get them abroad, where they give them to the worthy students; with the difference that they stay there, work there and they make use of their skills. [[Applause]] We must not, however, penalise the middle class. We are talking about incomes of EUR 25,000 or EUR 30,000 per year, less than even the middle class, which on the contrary must be rewarded and increased. We must not punish single - income families, where one of the parents has chosen to devote himself full - time to the family. We too are obviously in favour of full female employability; but, in the absence of a job, full-time care for children must have full social and economic recognition, waiting to see all mothers in the world of work. Instead there is no award for those who take care of the family directly and do not discharge these burdens on society and our welfare. To us now the reasons for favoring women who work with those who give the right financial support to mothers seem badly combined; but there must be no opposition between the woman who works and the woman who is at home, waiting to see all women still work and have their own satisfaction, at least those who seek work. Even there we should be included not on the single cheque, but on what are the possibilities and really give women the opportunity to work, having all the social structures that allow this (the school that lasts until 16, the full time, the kindergartens). But this is an issue that we will address in the near future. We should therefore also activate the facilities on parenthood, which are lacking in this provision and which are provided for by the delegation law that we have approved and which we hope to have to review shortly. I said we need more relief for single-income nuclei with adult children. It is true that the law cares about children up to the age of twenty-one; but the children do not end their presence at the age of twenty-one, they do not finish their studies at the age of twenty-one, if they are engaged in a degree course that includes a duration of six years. After twenty-one years, families are not freed from these great costs and commitments; this too had to be thought of when designing the cheque. It is true that we are faced with a bridge measure and a bridge cheque, but we should return to these major problems. In short, made the remarks that I have just expressed and certainly other considerations that we will shortly resume, the Senators of Forza Italia will express their positive vote, with all the criticisms that I have just illustrated (and certainly I have left out many). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u111	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to join in thanking the rapporteur for the offices and members of the 11th Commission, but a special thanks goes to Nadia Pizzol, a senator who with tenacity has defended an indispensable concept for us of the League: first the Italians, first the active policies of the job and even before the social state and not the global one. I therefore thank Senator Pizzol for her courage and for having held faith in our indispensable ideals: first the Italians [[Applause]] I wanted to say this in an official way and in front of the whole Group, because you are an example. I was listening to some speeches concerning citizenship income (I took notes on the fly) and also the compression of the salaries of Italian workers, but we also have to ask ourselves why the Italian workers have lost rights: perhaps because of the privatizations plaqued Prodi, Bersani, Letta, or because of the jobs act of Matteo Renzi, the abolition of Article 18, the Bolkenstein directive and many European treaties that have revised the negotiations of the national collective agreement and the social partners downwards? I always take the example of the famous society Groundcare, a company of the airport of Fiumicino, former ADR transformed into Groundcare and then subcontracted to a foreign company. Workers' contracts, to be hired by the new company, have been revised downwards: less vacation, the meal voucher has been reduced and salaries lowered from 1,200 to 800 euros per month. Then of course foreigners arrive, perhaps from countries where 800 euros represent a serious salary, and sign the collective agreement seen in this way. Often and willingly the unions are faced with two options: dismissal or this type of contract. Then, before making any criticism, we must also make self-criticism about the past of this country governed by the center-left. Someone, in fact, said that the Left Center is so good, loves the poor so much that it is very good at creating them. This is not a joke, because unfortunately we have examples of this. Alitalia and Telecom have also suffered this social depression, I want to call it that. Coming to the measure that we are going to approve, the decree-law in question has a duration of six months, from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021. The League, precisely to meet the needs of families with children, strongly supports it, because the family is a fundamental institution for the social estate of the nation. Strengthening policies to protect the family is fundamental; of course I'm talking about the biological family, not the synthetic models created in the laboratory or the fluid theories to indulge the whims of a few [[Applause]] The biological family is important for the survival of a nation and because of the economic crisis many families live difficult times. That is why it is important to give answers. The decree-law is a bridge measure, but also on the merits the family allowance is an important step; however the final objective of the League is the family quotient and more generally the flat tax, a flat tax that would take account of family loads to identify some areas no flat tax. As Mrs Pizzol has said, we do not want a purely welfare instrument; we think that we need a tax reform that we would like to achieve when the CentroRextra wins the elections and returns to govern Italy on its own. Unfortunately, today the health emergency that created this crisis requires bridge measures, urgent measures, for this announcement the League's vote in favour of the measure in question [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u114	RICCIARDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to convert Decree-Law No 79 of 8 June 2021, which contains temporary and provisional measures pending the implementation of the delegation rules laid down in Law No 46 of 1 April 2021. It is a law on the reorganization, simplification and enhancement of measures to support dependent children through the establishment of the single and universal allowance. It is a reform, the one of which the law delegates, of fundamental importance for all the families of this country and will enter into regime from January of next year. It is an important intervention because with the decree-law in conversion we intend to temporarily anticipate the effects of this law; we extend them to households that by reason of the subjective profiles do not fall within the scope of the allowance for the household that is in force today. We are talking about a step forward for all the welfare policies of this country, which brings Italy closer to Europe and which for the first time extends the aid provided for employees with children for whom the measure in question intervenes, providing for an increase for each child, also to categories that up to now have been excluded such as self-employed workers. Thanks to the work in the committees of merit, improvements have been made to the text that has been fired by the Government and that today is being examined by the Assembly; I am referring in particular to the Commission of the Senate, which examined the temporary cheque in force from 1 July to 31 December and that from January 2022 will enter into a regime, when the reform will enter into force and will therefore give way to the universal single cheque, as desired by the Government Count II, the Movimento 5 Stars and the former Minister Nunzia Catalfo. One of them is the amendment aimed at promoting effective gender equality by establishing that the temporary allowance is paid by the INPS and distributed equally among parents, with the exception of certain special cases expressly mentioned by the rule. It is an important signal, in our view, at this complex moment because it is marked by the pandemic and that it underlines the need to ensure equal conditions and opportunities for men and women, respecting constitutional principles and above all respecting that principle of effective substantive equality between the sexes and more generally of people, understood with capital P. In a country with a low birth rate, encouraging parenthood, supporting the family with concrete financial aid for each dependent child or a new born is certainly important, especially if we look at our young and precarious, all too often forced to give up the joy of becoming parents because they may not have a stable job that is able to assure themselves and their families a free and dignified existence. This decree bridge is a temporary measure and the next step will be to give full implementation to the reform that, in introducing the universal single cheque, provides for a rationalization of those micro aids that are previewed for those who have children and that from the laws in force are often fragmented and would need bureaucratic delays and several passages before arriving in the availability of the citizens. From January 2022, instead, Italian families, from the seventh month of pregnancy until the twenty-one years for each dependent child, will finally be able to count on a single and universal cheque that represents an absolute novelty for our country. The State has a duty to bring down inequalities and support citizens, to promote equal opportunities for all, and with this instrument we are taking a further step towards protecting the new generations. For this reason, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u115	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: (a) Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 79 of 8 June 2021 introducing urgent measures for temporary allowances for minor children. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] (17.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u116	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Law No 1440-B, approved in first resolution by the House of Deputies; approved, in first resolution, by the Senate; approved without amendment by the Chamber of Deputies in second resolution. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I also warn that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, the draft Constitutional Law will be approved, in the second resolution, if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are beginning the second reading of a very important draft Constitutional Reform Act, which has already been examined by the Senate Assembly in September 2020 and which addresses today its fourth parliamentary passage. I recall that on 31 July 2019 there was the first reading in the Chamber, on 9 September 2020, as I recalled, the second reading of the Senate and on 9 June the second deliberation of the Chamber of Deputies. In all these votes there has been a very broad membership of the Parliamentary Assembly in favour of this measure which, as we know, is really simple in its nature. This is an amendment to Article 58 of the Constitution, in the first paragraph, made to allow equal electorates to be elected for the election of both branches of Parliament, so that eighteen-year-olds can also elect the Upper House. It is a change that results in the elimination, from paragraph 1 of Article 58 of the Constitution, of ten words; but it is a change that, by removing ten words, actually operates a great change, because it removes, from our institutional system, an anomaly that for a very long time tried to eliminate and that has not been managed to eliminate, despite many attempts and discussions. I am pleased to recall that the equalization of the electorates for the election of the two branches of Parliament has been discussed, in the Italian public debate, at least since, in March 1975, so many years ago, the law of reform of family law was passed, with the lowering from twenty-one to eighteen years of age. From that moment on it appeared necessary to vast sectors of Italian politics, also for changing times and customs, to overcome the diversification of the electorates of the two Chambers, for a reason both functional and intergenerational fairness. But it didn't work out. I would remind you, among the many attempts, of a constitutional bill, anticipating and very lucid in the contents of your report, presented in July 1987 by Senator Mancino, who would then become, in the thirteenth legislature, President of this Assembly very much appreciated. Now we are really one step away from the finish line and there are all the conditions so that, even in the Senate, in the second resolution we can reach a broad vote in favour of this measure. I just remember that with the approval of this measure we ensure that four million Italians come out of the situation of minority and civil inferiority in which they are found today, because they are excluded from the right to vote a Chamber that exercises, on one foot of perfect equality with the other, legislative power: a differentiation that, as we said before, has really no reason to be. In addition to this reason for fairness, there is a reason for functionality, because we know that having elected equals for the two Chambers lowers, almost to zero, one of the risks that has often been a problem for the orderly functioning of our institutions, that is, that of different majorities in the two Chambers as a result of different electorates. For these reasons I thought it was necessary to accompany a purely descriptive report of a change, which is quantitatively little, even a reminder of the essential reasons of a political and constitutional nature that make this measure extremely important. Having adopted by a very large majority the reform that introduces environmental protection into the Constitution, we have a new opportunity in the Senate House to write a good page of constitutional reformism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u120	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business in order to try to understand how we intend to proceed, because I had informed you in the short term of our request for an interruption linked to a contingent and sudden need for a group meeting. I recall, Mr President, that there is also a need to sanitize the House after three hours. So I am asking you, for non-obstructional but absolutely collaborative purposes, for a solution that is good for everyone: for example, an interruption at 6.30 p.m. or a guarantee that the vote and part of the explanations of vote can be held tomorrow morning. So, I ask you to find a balance. We are interested in being able to hold our group meeting by 6.30 p.m. at the latest. That is our request.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u123	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, of course we support President Ciriani's request. We had already done so, but simply for a misunderstanding we did not coordinate on schedules. So, we agree and adhere to the request to close at 6:30.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u126	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we do not agree to close at 6.30 p.m. If my colleagues want to hold the Group meeting, we are going to continue the general debate, also because we then have the request - as I have already announced to my colleagues - to amend the timetable, in accordance with Rule 55, last paragraph, of our Rules of Procedure, as already announced yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, on the resolution that we will be holding at the end of the sitting. Therefore, with all clarity and without any particular problems, we ask that we proceed, without any vote on the draft law under consideration, and postpone the explanations of vote and the final vote to tomorrow. The closing at 6.30 p.m. prevents us from presenting that timetable change which is important to us and which we had largely anticipated at yesterday's Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u127	Senator Ciriani, I'm trying to make a proposal. We should suspend work on sanitization. We have five speeches in general, so at 18.55 we would have finished the debate. I propose to hold the general debate, interrupt the sitting at that point and leave the explanations of vote and the final vote for tomorrow morning. Can this be a welcome proposal, Senator Ciriani?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u128	Mr. President, we're okay with that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u131	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I understand that this is the last reading, but I always find it a little strange that there is a breakdown of a very important measure. Frankly, I would have preferred the report to take place today and the rest to be postponed until tomorrow. Moreover, having a general debate in a virtually half-empty Chamber frankly does not seem to me to be dignified for the last reading of a constitutional reform. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u134	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, it seems to me that your proposal is very reasonable, because there are only two speeches at stake: at 6.30 p.m. we will have done three speeches and at 6.50 p.m. we will have done five speeches; it is still reasonable. Mr President, as regards the inclusion of the Agriculture Commission's resolution on tomorrow's agenda, can we make the request now? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Bernini, the request must be made at the end of the session. Unfortunately, it is the Rules of Procedure that provide for this. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). All right, Mr. President. This was the reason I wanted to report to my colleagues in Brothers of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u135	Senator Ciriani has accepted my proposal, so I would continue. Senator De Petris, unfortunately, I do not have an indication of the closing time for today's sitting. At 6.30 p.m. there would still be sanitization and the vote would be around 9 p.m. Since there is a need for a qualified majority for the vote, I would like to point out a certain timetable, which should be scheduled for tomorrow morning at 11 a.m. In this way, the qualified majority required by the Constitution could be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u136	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u137	Mr President, once again I am pleased to speak in order to express a drastic and absolute dispute over this way of intervening on our Constitution. [[Applause]] Even if this is the fourth reading of the provision, I will continue to say it every time he makes a mess of our Constitutional Charter, which has an enlightened history, and of our constituent Fathers. I have a duty, as a citizen of this Republic, as a person who has studied at university and believes in institutions, to say that this system of changing our Constitution to commercials and for punctual interventions, and not with organic reform, is wrong. [[Applause]] And this is not said by the humble last of the 315 senators who sit here. Presidents of the Constitutional Court, constitutionalists, people - I am talking about university professors - who have also been heard in the Commission. As Mr Vitali has also said - which I re-read earlier - and to which I congratulate you today by then [[Applause]] - when the measure was voted on at second reading here, the system whereby constitutional reforms continue to be carried out in this legislature is wrong. [[Applause]] That is not how we change our Constitution. Parliamentarians have been reduced and we are now dealing with everything, with the Zan bill, with the 18-year-old vote (which you cannot care less about, because at the moment 18-year-olds think of anything but voting for the Senate as well as for the Chamber of Deputies), but we are not at all worried about what we should do, having reduced the number of Members by almost 40%. [[Applause]] If we do not hurry, we will probably be forced to face up to the next political elections with a series of failures, problems, not only regulatory but also constitutional issues, which will not allow these two Chambers to function. I have tabled, with the signature of many of my colleagues, starting with the chairman of my Group, Anna Maria Bernini, a constitutional bill that tries hard to put a stop to the problems that will unfortunately arise from this populistic and incomprehensible drastic reduction in the number of parliamentarians in our Republic. But let us come to the issue of voting for eighteen-year-olds. I understand that nobody cares what I think, but this is also an issue that has to do with the role we want to give to the Chambers. If the House and the Senate have to have, even after the reduction of the parliamentarians, a different number of members (because on the one hand there will be 400 and on the other 200), then I have to explain why we should adapt it in everything. Then should we also adjust it in the number of Members? I listened to this statement from President Calderoli in the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs and applauded it, because there is no consistency between the reduction of parliamentarians, the adjustment, perfectly identical, between the House and the Senate and then - who knows why - a different number of members in the one and the other House. What does this mean? It is not possible to amend the Constitution except with an overall, organic design. [[Applause]] , in which it is understandable what the Chamber of Deputies should serve and what the Senate of the Republic should serve. Otherwise, if we do not explain this, it is not enough to say: let us give a signal to eighteen-year-olds, to those who resent politics, to those who think that Members steal their salaries, so it is better to reduce the number of wage thieves. All this does not make any sense, it is only the result of an absurd anti-political mentality, which does not restore the confidence of the citizens in the institutions, on the contrary, helps to make it lose. [[Applause]] Why do I look with hope at the Dragons Presidency? Because at last we have an authoritative figure, who does not think to give populist signals, to commercials, to try to win consensus, but only tries to give a perspective and a future, even economically sustainable, to this country. Today's young people do not need to vote for the Senate; today's young people, ladies and gentlemen, need to find jobs. And jobs are found if the machine works, if the institutions work, if the economy grows, if employment grows as a result of the growth of our economy and our businesses. We're marching badly. This story, which tomorrow will have two lines in the newspapers, my dear colleague Castaldi, the day after tomorrow everyone has already forgotten it, starting with those 18-year-olds who may not even be going to vote. [[Applause]] Yes, it is true, there are about four million Italians placed between the electorate active in the House and the passive electorate in the Senate, according to data of the Department Studies of the Senate of the Republic obtained from the last elections of 2018. Very well, but there was a reason why our constituent Fathers believed that the House and the Senate had different roles, so the active electorate and the passive electorate had to be different. Of course, they weren't underdeveloped. It is so true that, by chance, in all the bicameral Commissions, from that Bozzi to that D'Alema and so on, the only one that has foreseen an adaptation was the one that provided for a redesign of our constitutional order, with a new logic in which Chamber and Senate had to do different things because there would have been the overcoming of the so-called equal bicameralism. All this, however, is not there today because we do not reform the Constitution in this way. It is wrong and I say it as a humble servant and scholar of our Constitution. It's wrong. The Forza Italia Group voted in favour of the provision in the House of Deputies; I do not care because I personally oppose this way of making reforms and I have a duty to say so. [[Applause]] And I have to say it here. Do I make myself clear? In the end those who speak in an explanation of vote may say that we abstain; I am against abstention votes, but I agree. Let me say that I would have voted sincerely against the measure because it is wrong for me. I conclude by saying that throughout my life I have always characterized myself for hope and optimism. I believe that perhaps, since the birth of this Government of national unity, there is hope of a future that can overcome populism and demagogy, the search for consensus by scratching the stomachaches of citizens and citizens. I hope that this will be overcome and that there will be a better future for Italy than for cheap reforms such as the one we are discussing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u138	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u139	Colleagues, I recommend respect for the times because sanitization unfortunately cannot be exempted more than we have already done.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote for an epochal constitutional reform. Seventy-five years after the birth of the Republic and the recognition of the right to vote to all citizens, including women, finally the same right to a free, personal, equal and secret vote, is granted to 4.5 million young people aged between eighteen and twenty-four, who will be able to vote for the senators of the Republic. It is therefore a reform that recognizes equal dignity to all citizens, including adults, to exercise their political rights and therefore to participate actively in the political life of the country. After a long economic recession that has seen young people among the most vulnerable and the pandemic that forced them to further restrict their constitutional rights, such as the right to study, movements, activities and social relations, we are truly proud as parliamentarians to approve today a reform that they have been waiting for for a long time, which will restore them more trust in the institutions and reduce abstentionism in electoral competitions. Young people want to return to life and make a concrete contribution to the political and social life of the country. The legislation on our examination, which reduces the age of the electorate active in the election of the Senate of the Republic, is also part of a broader process of constitutional reforms, which began with the cutting of a third of the MPs, brought home by this legislature. The aim is to make Parliament a streamlined and efficient institution, without having to renounce the territorial representation of citizens. For this reason, allowing 4.5 million young people to choose with the exercise of the right to vote the Senators of the Republic does not mean having to give up a House of Parliament. The perfect bicameralism, and therefore a legislative system based on two chambers each with the same powers, must remain our constitutional pillar because this does not mean wasting time, as some say. The double reading of a legal text is not an unnecessary repetition, but serves to prevent a hasty approval of legal texts that then have to be corrected by another legislator or, as often happens, modified by jurisprudence. This is happening with a huge increase in the work of the judiciary, which, as we have seen in recent years, involves considerable expenditure on the justice system and, in the worst case, denied justice. This is why, during the work of constitutional reform, it was decided not to change the age of the passive electorate, allowing the Senate to remain the High House, the House of Wise Men and the most mature politics. This does not want to be an exclusion of part of civil society, but the stimulus to engage in professional and political life in order to achieve more demanding goals. President, I conclude with the hope that our young people will be increasingly involved in the political life of the country and that their needs will be placed in the foreground, as is desired today by the PNRR, in order to guarantee them the due attention in all areas of civil life, from work, education, culture and education. With the recognition of the right to vote in the Senate they will certainly return to having greater confidence in politicians, politics and institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u141	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u142	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be almost telegraphic because Mr Pagano has made our position clear and, above all, has clarified the battle that he and I in the Commission have been supporting by criticising this measure, as we had done in vain with regard to the drastic reduction of Members. The problem is not to change the Constitution, but to do so by making our institutional scaffolding coherent, functional, efficient and rapid. It does not seem to me that we have an organic project which can then be used to speed up, simplify and make our system efficient. During the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the reduction of the number of Members, President Calderoli had to say, in the face of a criticism of the way in which constitutional reforms operate in a sectoral way, that he had now convinced himself that an overall constitutional reform could not be done, that it was impossible. Several times, in fact, both them and the center-left had tried unsuccessfully. He concluded by saying that action should therefore be taken by means of targeted and individual initiatives in order to achieve the result. Mr Calderoli, I very much agree that we must act in this way, but in an overall context in which we know where we must go. We have reduced the number of Members without changing the parliamentary regulations and without amending the electoral law. [[Applause]] We have driven people away from politics, not to interest citizens and young people in politics! With this reform we make another slogan, which we do not know where it takes us. In a discussion of this measure in the previous reading in the Senate, a colleague said that in the election campaign he had been approached by many young people who asked him: when will it be possible for us eighteen-year-olds to vote for the Senate? I personally have not met any of them, Mr President, colleagues. I met young people who asked me rather about working expectations, who asked me not to be forced to leave their territories, their regions and their families and even go abroad to work. They didn't ask me to vote 18 years for the Senate. On the other hand, it is not a question of giving legitimacy to the youth world, which with the 1975 reform already has an electoral legitimacy: it elects the Chamber of Deputies. We do not understand, then, why the possibility of electing the Senate of the Republic should be extended to eighteen-year-olds, failing a principle that our constituent Fathers have included in the Constitution, not by chance. If, in fact, we extend to the same audience the possibility of electing the House and the Senate, one of the two rooms is absolutely useless, it is useless. [[Applause]] You want to extend the vote to 18? Very well, do it, but then repeal the Senate or repeal the House, because this means optimizing, even in a view of spending review. We are talking about cuts at the moment, the vitalities, who knows how many savings will be made, and instead these are the real structural savings that can serve the country. We have too much room. Let's get over it. So, we're gonna get the Senate to vote? All right, let's repeal the Chamber of Deputies. Don't you want to do it? Then the Senate must have the same representatives as the House of Deputies, otherwise these reforms are not useless, they are irrational, they do not understand. I do not know how many of you have happened: every now and then, in the evening I zapping on television programs and there are some journalistic surveys in which young people are interviewed in schools close to maturity, so 18-year-olds, who do not know who the President of the House is rather than the President of the Senate or the President of the Republic, and you are worried about having them vote for the Senate? [[Applause]] Something really doesn't work here, as Mr Pagano said. My dear fellow Member, it does not matter that we have been succumbed both to the battle to defend the parliamentary structure, at the time of the election of Members, and to what we have done in criticizing and trying to bring back a majority that I do not know what it is aiming at, because this is not a political majority that has been created around a perspective; it is an occasional majority that is agreed on a reform, I repeat, not useless, but irrational. Pagano, we must not feel sorry for having been unsuccessful, because in life it is not important to support the battles that are won; it is important to support the battles in which one believes. [[Applause]] We in these battles believe and probably, one day, someone, reading the parliamentary records, can give us that reason that we have been denied today. I too, dear President Bernini, would have been more inclined to vote against, but the difference is relative, partly because I do not want it to be written in the newspapers tomorrow that we are against young people. We are in favour of young people, our youth economic policies are at the forefront, in the interest of what young people need. Therefore, our abstention is a simultaneous vote of protest against this way of acting and also a signal to the youth world, to which we certainly want to recognize rights but also duties. I was among the supporters of the opportunity to re-introduce the teaching of civic education into schools. I hope that at some time from here - returning to those broadcasts in which the journalistic investigations are carried out - when you go to the classes, especially the 18-year-olds, the matures, to ask who is the President of the Republic, the President of the House, the President of the Senate or the President of the Council, you have not turned upside down or weird answers, but appropriate answers. When we have achieved this level of culture, civicism and the right of citizenship, perhaps this reform may be appropriate; but at this moment, according to our modest opinion, it is absolutely useless. Nevertheless, we will abstain on this measure because we do not want to contribute to unfairly violating our Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u143	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u144	Mr President, Government, colleagues, a few weeks ago, during a debate which was always about the amendment of the Constitution, I argued that caution was needed when starting a process of this kind. We need caution, we need to assess the appropriateness and we need to assess the consequences of the act that is being approved. And this is not because, like many in here, but also a lot of people outside of this meeting, I believe that our Constitution is the most beautiful in the world. I do not think that at all; I believe that in some parts our Constitution is anachronistic and it could only be so. It was adopted almost seventy-five years ago, in a completely different historical-social context, with completely different needs compared to what we now have. Such a vast, complex and complex regulatory system can only be anachronistic now or have been overly futuristic at the time. This would mean that the constituent Fathers have made mistakes; but I do not think that at all. Therefore, our Constitution can and must be amended; we have done so recently and we are doing so now. This does not mean, however, that it, even if it is old (allow me the term), has in itself principles that are absolutely acceptable. For example, for me, one of the most important principles contained in the Constitution, in the second paragraph of Article 1, is that which provides that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and in the ways provided for in the Constitution. What does this mean? It means that the power (because speaking of the sovereignty of this matter) belongs to the people, who through their elected representatives, then through the vote, exercise this right. Why do I need to make this clear? Firstly, because today's debate is about one of these aspects, namely the fact that the exercise of the vote is regulated both with regard to the passive electorate and with regard to the active electorate. For the first case there is a difference in age in order to be able to enter the Chamber of Deputies or elected to the Senate; with reference to the active electorate, there are two different levels of age in order to be able to choose their elected representatives. Again, therefore, I am talking about elected representatives and I am not doing so by chance, as I did not by chance reminding those who are empowered by our Constitution. In fact, I think it is very serious that a constitutional body, through its representatives (in this case I am talking about the National Association of Judges), comes to a decision against an initiative of the first party of Italy, which simply asks the people, that is, the one who holds the power, to express themselves on the opportunity to involve the whole population in a referendum. Basically, a state order is opposed to ensuring that those in power by constitutional prediction can speak on such an important issue for our legal system. This is very serious. As I said before, this is a state order, because many, even in here, feel, in my opinion, improperly and mistakenly, that the executive power, one of the three unanimously recognized powers (together with the legislative and judicial), is the property of the judiciary. But that's not how it is. Our Constitution, in addition to saying that it is the people's power, Article 104 makes it clear that the judiciary is an order. Therefore, an order should not allow the exercise of power to be limited to those who legitimately hold it. But we go on: we go on in the squares, where we have always been and will continue to be there, and we go on in the gazebos, which we have always done and will continue to do. This is thanks to our militants, despite threats not only verbal and assaults. In fact, some of our militants at the League gazebos have been physically assaulted; to these people I wish to express not only my solidarity and closeness, but also my heartfelt thanks to them and to all the other militants who have allowed to realize more than 1,000 gazebos and to collect more than 100,000 signatures in support of this initiative of democracy. [[Applause]] This is because the League, especially in times of difficulty, is among people. Many, in times of difficulty, close themselves in the palace, perch; we, on the contrary, descend into the squares. I am a direct witness to this: when the previous Government limited its activities, I made a commitment that just over a month ago I was talking to the general at the base (and the general is not a military and the base is not a barracks, but a gym). At the time when the previous government limited the possibility of those people to work, I personally committed myself to being with them when we were able to reopen our activities; we did so and I respected that commitment, because the League among people is always there. That is why I personally believe it would be useful to allow as many people as possible to express their vote or, in any case, their orientation, whether in a referendum or in elections; this is always good for our democratic system. On the subject, today's debate concerns the amendment of Article 58 of the Constitution, in particular the abolition of the term: "of voters over the 25th year of age". This means that, by removing this part, the limit that does not allow voters under 25 years of age to vote for their representatives in the Senate is removed. I said that I think this forecast is useful because, when this limit was adopted, the historical and social context was completely different: universal suffrage had just been reached, therefore the possibility of women voting too; a few years earlier, however, until 1912, even all men could not vote, because they needed to have a certain cultural level and be the expression of a certain social class. Thus the historical-social context was completely different, as was the age at which one went to vote. Paradoxically, with time this inequality in the active electorate, rather than shrinking, has even increased, because, when the Constitution was adopted, the greater age was achieved at twenty-one years, so the difference between those who could vote for the House and those for the Senate was four years; later, with the lowering of the greater age to eighteen years, this inequality has increased, so much so that at this time the difference is seven years. A direct consequence was that in the last elections the difference in valid votes between the House and the Senate was almost four million, i.e. nearly four million voters were unable to participate in the election of their representatives. In my opinion, this contradicts a statement that I have frequently supported, focusing a great deal on when I spoke about the amendment of Article 9 of the Constitution. We always declare that our work is in favour of the new generations. The new wording of Article 9 of the Constitution states that the protection of the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems is also pursued in the interests of future generations. So, if we are to pursue the interests of future generations, it is useful, it is appropriate and it is good that they are also involved in decisions. Unlike some of my colleagues who believe that this would be in contradiction with a situation of fact which provides for some widespread ignorance in younger people, in my opinion this could instead be a system to make them responsible, not to exclude them and to make them feel almost in a civil obligation to be more involved in the democratic activity of their country. There would have been further issues, but time is running out, so I will finish my speech by thanking you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u145	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u146	Mr President, Members of the Government, we have been debating in Parliament for over 45 years the question of reducing age requirements for the active electorate. The proposals, over the course of the various decades, have been received by all sides of the parliamentary arc, by the Movimento 5 Stars and, well before, by the Democratic Party and also by the League. Much has been said, initiatives, studies and research on the youth electorate have been carried out, several proposals have been compared, but they have never reached the end of the parliamentary path. Today we change history: at last we bring to completion a simple reform, clear, in line with the style that we have inaugurated in this legislature, that of the punctual constitutional reforms. I am thinking of the other proposals put forward by the Movimento 5 Stars, which have innovated the Constitution, such as the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, which was also approved by a large majority of the population. As said, this bill is really very simple: with a single paragraph we recognize to young people between eighteen and twenty-five the right to express their vote not only for the House, but also for the Senate, as happens in most European states with bicameralism. Young people are our citizens, the most vital and purposeful part of citizenship, which until now has counted in half, when it was a question of choosing the elected representatives of the Italian people. Giving them the opportunity to vote also for the Senate means clearly asserting a basic democratic principle and strengthening the political rights of as many as four million people. The economic, social and environmental crisis we are experiencing is the result of the political and economic choices that have been made in recent decades. In the same way, will today's political choices strongly affect our future in positive or negative and who cares more about the future, if not young people? Those who most of all will pay or benefit from today's political choices are the young people, who have their whole lives ahead of them. That is why it is right that their vow should be equal and not halved compared to that of their parents and grandparents. It is right that they can have a full impact on the future of the country. Not only that, giving young people a voice means giving them confidence, importance and responsibility. I am convinced that it is an important step to encourage them to participate more and more consciously in the political life of the country. [[Applause]] Moreover, the vote of young people for the Senate will compensate, at least in part, for the enormous electoral burden of the older population. Today, in Italy, voters over sixty-five years of age alone represent 22% of the electorate. Moreover, the quorum of different active electorate between the House and the Senate was one of the causes of the constitution of different majorities between the two branches of Parliament, which has often led in our history to ungovernability. This reform therefore solves one of the problems and ensures a better stability of this institution. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, today an 18-year-old can work, drive a car, contract marriage, buy a house, enter into contracts and open a bank account, so you can't understand why he can't vote full for Parliament, choosing his own representatives in the Senate. [[Applause]] Young people must be given confidence. First of all, education must restore their self-confidence. Unfortunately, today the education given to young people diminishes and degrades their self-esteem, while, on the contrary, it must convey confidence, security and also the awareness that decisions must be made and taking responsibility and that, if it is unfortunately wrong, there is the possibility of recognizing its mistakes and correcting them. We therefore have a great need for young people. Their freshness, their energy, their sensitivity and their awareness of the global problems we face are precious qualities, especially in a historical moment that calls for great changes in a very short time. The inclusion of eighteen-year-olds in the active electorate for the Senate announces this openness to the innovations and changes that are taking place in our century. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u147	The general debate is closed. As agreed, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u150	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as has been said, I would like to make a request, pursuant to the last paragraph of Rule 55 of our Rules of Procedure. There was an urgent issue, the demonstration to be held tomorrow morning in Piazza Montecitorio, promoted by Coldiretti on the theme of the mobilization of wildlife, in which participates Minister Patuanelli, Senator Vito Crimi, Undersecretary Centinario, Minister Brunetta, Presidents of the Agriculture Commissions of Chamber and Senate, Senator Vallardi and Mr Gallinella, and Senator Taricco. There are also Presidents of Regions, such as Michele Emiliano, Governor of the Puglia Region, Stefano Bonaccini, Governor of the Emilia-Romagna Region, and others. There is also the Councillor for Agriculture of the Campania Region. There will therefore be representatives of all political parties. It would be interesting for us to give a signal of attention to this issue by including in the timetable a resolution, which, among other things, was adopted by a large majority, with the only abstention - as I say in correct terms - of the five representatives of the 5 Star Movement in the Agriculture Committee. It is resolution No 46 adopted on 30 June last, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned No 337 on the damage caused to agriculture by the excessive presence of wildlife. The discussion in the Assembly, among other things, was also requested by the prescribed number of senators, pursuant to Rule 50 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. I mentioned this yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders. Given, however, that this event will take place tomorrow and considering that - I am sincere - I did not know that it was the next day and that representatives and leaders from all parties participated in it, it would be interesting to give a signal of attention from the Senate. So the proposal is that Resolution No 46 should be scheduled tomorrow, at the end of the examination of the constitutional bill No 1440-B (then the timetable can be agreed). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u153	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, as I mentioned yesterday at the Conference of Leaders, the Mixed Group is certainly present in the Committee on Agriculture, where, of course, none of our members are present. Beyond that, we have not been able to examine Resolution 46, except now, because we have obtained it, and obviously we have been able to make our contribution. I say this for a simple reason. We have started the practice - by applying the Rules of Procedure, for goodness sake - that, at the end of an assigned affair, until some time ago, resolutions, when already adopted in the Commission, remained approved in the Commission. With the recovery, because there was a specific problem with this, it was decided to bring the resolutions to this House: this will rightly be applied when we consider it appropriate. The issue that I would like to put to the attention of this House, on which I disagree with Senator Romeo's proposal, is that we cannot present another resolution, unfortunately, and so we need to prepare an agenda to accompany it to the debate, which can be voted on after the resolution itself. For this reason, we are making a rather complicated request, since we are doing constitutional reforms tomorrow: we are asking for time to present the agenda together with some of our colleagues. My request, therefore, is that the resolution be included on the agenda not tomorrow, but on another day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u156	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I should like to add a few brief comments. We, as the Brothers of Italy Group, share the position of the parent Romeo, that is, we are to discuss the resolution tomorrow. We ask this regardless of whether tomorrow there will be a demonstration in the square in Montecitorio and in all the squares of Italy, where farmers will protest for a situation that has now become emerging: I refer to the damage caused to agriculture by wildlife. Tomorrow we will talk about those caused by wild boars, but there is a huge amount caused by wildlife. I have to say to Mr De Petris, who is asking for time, that this assigned business has been in the Commission for a year. [[Applause]] We have been auditioning for a year and we have been listening to all stakeholders, farmers, farmers and fishermen, because this is a problem that false environmentalism and false animalism have always tried to silence. Today we have the opportunity, with this resolution, approved - as the parent Romeo said - in the Committee on Agriculture, without any vote against, at the end of a long and intense journey, to give a response to farmers and farmers on a problem that has now become unbearable for them. I wanted to say this and point it out: tomorrow morning we have the opportunity to give a concrete answer to the whole world of agriculture, farmers and fishermen. So we agree on wanting to schedule it for tomorrow morning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u157	Mr President, I do not want to repeat things that have already been said very well by my colleagues, but I do not think that this is a coercion, given that this has been so much talked about in recent days, because the subject has been on the agenda for some time and the work of the Agriculture Commission and, as my fellow Members have said, the resolution is very widely shared, in the terms of qualified majority required to get it to the House immediately. We are not, therefore, at this moment, interpreting a wish expressed by the Commission, with the qualified majority required, which coincides with an important moment for agriculture in every part of Italy. We too repeat the request, which we made yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders (then the subject is widely announced), to be able to schedule and discuss tomorrow the resolution that has been said. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u160	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group to support what Mr De Petris has said about our desire to draw up an alternative agenda. We therefore ask for a few days to arrive at a text that makes sense. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I should like to say that what Mr La Pietra has done has been a long and meticulous work, with an attempt to include the wishes expressed by the Commission. Nevertheless, we have not come to a joint text and we remember that the Government has mortgaged that text by expressing a negative opinion of which we could not fail to take into account, so much so that we have also abstained from the Commission in order not to reach a complete break. Having said that, I repeat that we are still asking for a few more days to draw up an alternative agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u163	BITI (PD). Mr President, I too am speaking to bear witness first of all to the work we have done in the Committee on Agriculture (but it is not new and we have said so many times in this House: we have the ability to work well, to deepen the issues and also to find important mediations). Again, it was done by all the groups, obviously with an important work by Senator La Pietra, and we voted last week. This is a subject that needs to be examined in depth for some, so I do not think anyone is wrong, not even the work done in the Commission - indeed, just the way we are used to working there, wanting in every way to deepen and find greater sharing on the issues - in taking some time [[Comments]] , as both President De Petris and Mr Trentacoste del Movimento 5 Stars have asked, trying to find once again on this important issue for our farmers the greater sharing precisely to give them greater support. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u164	Colleagues, there is a request pursuant to Rule 55, last paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that there are reasons for considering that these are urgent and urgent situations, so I welcome the request and I shall have to put to the vote the proposal, tabled by Senator Romeo and supported by other groups, for the timetable for tomorrow, at the conclusion of the work already scheduled for the agenda. I would point out that the proposal to include a new topic in the agenda of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, was voted by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Comments.]] As the time limit of 18.55 is exceeded for sanitization, interventions on topics not included in the agenda will be carried out at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u165	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-343.ana.u166	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, July 8, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7 p.m.
