ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 1658. The rapporteur, Senator Rampi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's is a very simple measure in its parliamentary form and, at the initiative of Senator Verducci, it has found the sharing of many Members of the Commission already at the beginning of this parliamentary term, cross-cuttingly. Following short but significant work in the Commission, it was voted in favour by all the Groups. The bill in question indicates a point that I believe is important for the community of Servigliano, so impressed by the events of this field, and that in an iconic way crosses the whole country. We could say that in the prison camp of Servigliano it has passed all the twentieth century, it has passed the whole history of this country. The camp was born as a refugee camp of the First World War, hosting refugees and prisoners of war from Austria; it highlights that terrible affair and conflict, which was one of the founding conflicts of our community. Many men who came from different countries, from an Italy that was strongly disunited, who did not even know they belonged to a single community, all together found themselves on the battlefields and that form of union in suffering was one of the foundations of the birth of a national feeling. This has crossed Servigliano, instead hosting those prisoners who at that time were the iconic enemy, who embodied hatred and who today are our partners, our fellow citizens within the European Union. This is how history goes through life: our grandparents and great-grandparents were fighting each other and we are citizens of a single Union today. That field, however, also becomes the dramatic place of the collection of Jews, following racial laws, then crosses the theme of the Holocaust and turns upside down, changes nature and faces this extraordinary, unique, dramatic moment of the European and world twentieth century. It crosses, therefore, that story of suffering that was, precisely, the Holocaust and that today all of us Europeans remember on the Day of Remembrance. Those prisoners passed through there. At that very moment of World War II, Servigliano became again the prison camp of what was then the new enemy, the British soldiers, the American soldiers, those who soon would become our allies. Finally, precisely because Servigliano is really the place of the twentieth century, the house of tragedies of the twentieth century, and for this reason it is so important to recognize it as a national monument, as a place of elaboration of a memory, in the last phase becomes the refugee camp that welcomes all those our compatriots who from what had remained of the tragedies of the twentieth century had to return to the country; I am referring therefore to the Istrian refugees - those citizens and those towns whose tragedy we commemorate on the Day of remembrance, who were involved by the complex events of the eastern border and were forced to return to an Italy that in reality did not know - and the refugees of Ethiopia and Libya. Some Members and some colleagues have stressed the importance of addressing, in particular, this issue of Ethiopia's refugees, which is very little known. For many years in Servigliano a lot of associations, of realities, of young people work, work and work to make live this memory, to make known this story, to understand this complexity, to go to the reasons of the violence that has passed through us in the twentieth century, because memory has this function: to understand the reasons of hatred and violence and to build on that understanding, on those reasons the elements to get out of it and not to repeat those errors. Today that prison camp, which becomes a place of peace building, I believe can and should be recognized this morning by the Senate of the Republic as a national monument that commemorates the lives and tragedies that have passed through it and that it is the foundation of peace. It must not be a simple brick monument, but an object of history and a monument to the memory of those people who have crossed it. That is why I believe that there is every reason to approve this important measure and to pass it on to the House of Deputies, so that we can conclude this issue in a useful way and give this recognition. I therefore call for the adoption of the articles, the acceptance of the Commission's work and a swift and favourable vote on the whole measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u6	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur. A long work has been done in the Commission, shared by all the Groups. For this reason, I would like to thank the group leaders who, on behalf of their parties and their movements, have signed the bill under consideration. I hope that this measure will be the beginning of a path that also involves the whole part of digitalization, which will have great space in the same recovery plan, in a series of measures that, together with the Commissions, the Government will carry on. In fact, I think that memory, memories, in order to survive and to have a relevant and central place, must also pass through the work of digitalization. I would like to announce this, with the hope that there will really be work in this direction in the Commission. I know that on other issues we have already started, about the paths and what is anyway the history of our culture and our memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u8	Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.11 a.m. and resumed at 10.21 a.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u11	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Senators and Senators, the debate which has taken place this morning in the Senate Assembly and which will continue with the explanations of vote on the declaration of a national monument of the former prison camp in Servigliano is undoubtedly an important and solemn moment in Parliament' s work in this parliamentary term. The history of humanity, in particular of the twentieth century, to which we all belong, is littered with terrible moments of hatred and intolerance and, fortunately, also great moments of peace and brotherhood. These negative moments show how imperfect man's nature is. If it is true that one of the highest tasks of politics, in democracy, is to advance humanity towards a better and more just society, then we must ensure that future generations and our young people know our past, beautiful and noble things, but also mistakes, especially the most dramatic ones. Only then will the conditions be created to build a truly better future. Therefore, to raise to the temple of memory the former prison camp of Servigliano, a place of suffering, injustices and violence, which has collected the anxieties and fears of thousands of helpless people, prisoners of war, exiles and Jews, victims of that collective criminal madness, which characterized the first half of the twentieth century, is one of the best ways to remember, to give our young people, unfortunately more and more permeable to dangerous regurgitation of totalitarianism and violence, a formidable possibility of pilgrimage to a past of suffering, in order to be able to truly build those antibodies against intolerance and violence, necessary for a future of justice. So I still congratulate those who wanted to bring this important initiative to our attention, first and foremost with Senator Verducci, and I also thank the rapporteur, Senator Rampi. The For the Autonomies Group represents in the Senate autonomous and federalist political forces, which are directly opposed to nationalisms and centralisms and which have their roots in resistance and in the fight against fascism, which for us have meaning humiliations, violence and fight against diversity and minorities. For our Group this small bill is actually a great stone, towards the construction of a world of peace, tolerance and freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u14	ROJC (Europeans-MAIE-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those who, with the draft law under consideration, have called us to the duty to keep alive not only the memory but also the attention to what was the "short century," of which the history of the prison camp in Servigliano gathers the most significant stages. It is a way of the Cross, whose stations have not varied the place, but have marked the destinies of people. The threshold that determines this place-no place has been repeatedly crossed, marking destinies already marked by history and horror. A space gathered and pervaded by pain and fear, by the awareness of the powerful who wants to annihilate the weakest, wounding forever what was the sign of humanity. What right do we have to forget? "Of all this there is nothing left," writes John Raboni, and adds: It seems to me that evil is never in things. It is not in things, of course, but the places of memory are no longer places or things of Rabon that bring us back. The places of memory are silent witnesses of what has been and that our generations, those of the post-war period, who have not produced a significant collective memory, have tried to remove. The prison camp of Servigliano collects the memory of the shadows of the "short century" that is imposed today, still and always, as a necessity to breathe, would say Edith Bruck; necessity of which are testimony the ricery of San Sabba Trieste, but also places not yet recognized as an inseparable part of our memory: the lagers of the duke, the camps for the military, those for the Jews, for the refugees of yesterday and today, those for the opponents of totalitarian regimes, those for those who were considered a different. Let us not deceive ourselves that these are distant things or that they can no longer happen; let us not deceive ourselves that man has learned. What happened to Servigliano is real; it is part of a past close to us, to this way of understanding existence in the sign of a hedonism without values that the pandemic has brought out with arrogance. We have slipped towards a system that wants to make the most black pages of our history forget, replacing them with the illusion that today is the time of the future; but it is the past that determines the future, there is no future without an objective awareness, of which institutions must underlie its importance, and without the subjective consciousness that comes from knowledge. It is crucial that this Assembly defines this debate by dialogue with the "Hands of all those who have not returned" as the Slovenian author Boris Pahor, who has known the twentieth century in all its darker facets, from fascism to deportation, up to the strong and indelible denunciation, in 1975, of the post-war massacres, which cost him the prohibition of entry into Yugoslavia twice and for long periods. Illuminating what Primo Levi writes about the lager who - he says - is outside of us, but is around us, is in the air. The plague has turned off, but the infection snakes: it would be foolish to deny it. [...] The disowning of human solidarity, the obtuse or cynical indifference for the pain of others, the abdication of the intellect and moral sense before the principle of authority, and mainly, at the root of everything, a tide of cowardice, an abysmal vileness, in a mask of warrior virtue, of patriotic love and fidelity to an idea. This is his teaching. The delegation to witness cannot therefore be a mere question of witnesses, because then memory is doomed to die when those who can still speak in the first person fail. It is the State, on the other hand, that must have the responsibility for the memory that belongs to all; therefore, the Europeanist group Europeanist-MAIE-Democratic Center strongly supports the proposal to establish the National Museum of the prison camp of Servigliano that marked the fate of women and men from the Great War and until the 1950s, making our own the words of Eli Wiesel: Never will I forget all this, even if I am condemned to live as much as God himself. Never. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u17	Garavini (IV-PSI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European The food was really painful: it was beans and rotten peas that kept in the bags. Sometimes, given the scarcity of food, they authorized some of us to go to the houses to beg a piece of bread, always accompanied by the guards. [...] It was painful to ask for food but sometimes something could be received. It is the testimony of Carla Viterbo Bassani, one of the 61 Jews held in the prison camp of Servigliano. Carla was able to pass on her testimony because she was one of the few who managed to escape on May 3, 1944, when an allied plane bombed the field creating a breach in the wall. Other fellow prisoners of his did not have the same fortune: 31 Jews were captured again in the countryside and deported the same evening to another concentration camp, Fossoli, to be deported to Auschwitz and died. The territory of Servigliano was the scene of events that tore apart the European twentieth century. With deportation, prison camps and concentration, it becomes a place of high symbolic value at national and European level, which deserves to all intents and purposes to become a national monument. The camp could count to 4,000 prisoners. In 1919 it was closed and put back into operation in 1940 to collect the prisoners of World War II. In October 1943 the camp was set up as a collection point for Jews, both foreigners and Italians, from the Ascoli Piceno, Frosinone and Teramo area. Such people lived in inhumane conditions: crammed in narrow and cramped places, without food. Thousands passed through the structure. It is estimated that about 50,000 people transited from here until its final closure in 1955. Despite its dramatic history, the community of Servigliano has succeeded in being reborn. In the last sixty years there have been many projects that have made it a city of memory, starting from the Park of Peace (stage of numerous events, such as concerts, aimed at giving a sense of the value of the regained peace and democracy) then passing from the House of Memory (which houses a permanent exhibition of the history of the camp and rises symbolically inside the old railway station of the country, exactly the one that saw arrive and, unfortunately, departure numerous convoys). The center over the years has collected a rich historical archive available to scholars and civil society, aimed at remembering the sufferings of those who passed from there, managing to transform this place from a symbol of horror to a symbol of rebirth. That is exactly the approach we are preparing to vote on in this House today, which, thanks to the promoter, Senator Verducci, has since the beginning seen the bipartisan signature of all political forces. The measure has been voted unanimously in the Commission and we are now voting on it again in a compact way, regardless of the political groups. I think it is a good signal and the best way to send out a message outside of a complaint about the risks of harmful effects arising from the use of violence. It is also a fine way to express deep gratitude to one of the signatories of the law, Senator Segre. Thank you for your commitment over many years to convey to young people and students the awareness of how horrible it can be behind the trivialization of all forms of aggression, whether verbal or psychological, including the ghettoization of the different, the minorities, the weakest. She deserves a heartfelt thank you. Precisely the testimony of Senator Segre makes even more evident how much they serve places of reflection and memory as the national monument that we are preparing to realize with this bill in the former prison camp of Servigliano. In these days we have witnessed further brutal episodes of aggression against Senator Segre, once again the victim of a form of hatred that runs via the web, which is new in mode, but archaic in violence. The insults on social media, even more vile because hidden behind the anonymity of the keyboard, can trigger the fuse of uncontrolled violence. Alongside the investigation of the prosecutor must run parallel then the condemnation of all political forces; condemns that we today with our unanimous vote confirm; a condemnation towards those who still today, more and more often in the most different ways, feel authorized to offend and threaten, either on social media, or through verbal attacks, you want to send threats by post, as happened - for example - in the hours that have passed towards an authoritative senator of my Group, our President Renzi. Different forms inspired by the same poisonous climate are unfortunately the result of a persecutory hatred fueled too often by opponents or even political allies. And this is serious because, when this spiral of violence starts, it is not said that you can then be in a position to control it. That is why we say that the national monument that we are going to establish today, as well as being dedicated to all the people locked up in Servigliano and, unfortunately, found death there, must also be dedicated to the new generations, so that it serves to honor, yes, the memory of those who remained victim in a system of hatred and ethnic clash, but so that it can also become a monument to the future so that what has been is not repeated even in the darkest times. The monument of Servigliano wants to be not only a tribute to the sacrifice of the past, but also a warning for today and tomorrow. With this monument, even before we commemorate what has been, we protect the new generations so that they can inherit that priceless memory that leads us to say a strong no to all kinds of violence. Our thoughts and emotional memories go to the women and men who did not leave that camp, but also to the new generations in an attempt to show how destructive all those forms of violence of yesterday and today can be that draw inspiration from a climate of hatred. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u20	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the declaration of a national monument of the former prison camp in Servigliano, a place that has been the passage of history, of the heaviest years of the twentieth century. The Park of Peace - as it is called today - has a witness value and expresses an identity and civic connection of exceptional meaning. For this reason the declaration of a national monument not only assumes a symbolic value, but is also a living memory of a dramatic port. From 1915 to 1955 - as the rapporteur said - the prison camp has unfortunately been the scene of the horrors of wars and the different experiences - all painful for us who do not know drama series A and series B - must be respected and recognized in the construction of that culture of true memory, without wishing to forget that unfortunately many times we also find in history books. I believe that this act of Parliament and the joint commitment of all political forces represent a very important signal in the desire to finally pacify our national community. It begins in 1915, when the prison camp was created by erecting a wall of three meters and 32 barracks in which prisoners of war were crammed; it passes through the experience of the Second World War, with the Jews deported to Auschwitz from Servigliano; and, then, we have the page, at war ended, from 1947 to 1955, of the Giuliano-dalmati refugees fleeing from the tragedy of the Foibe, of the communist Marshal Tito, flesh and blood of our national community [[Applause]] ; to finally arrive for years to remember this as a drama not of series B: even these stories - as has been said - pass from Servigliano. Stayed abandoned in 1970, with the municipality that tried to recover it by converting it into sports spaces, it is necessary to give credit to the association La Casa della Memoria for having engaged since 2001 in a research work of historical memory of the field. We would like to thank the first signatory of the measure and all those who have joined, including my Parent Company, Senator Ciriani, as well as all the members of the 7th Permanent Commission of the Senate, of which I honour to be a member, for the effort of political unity that has been made. I would also like to thank President Nencini and all my colleagues, as well as our officials, for their valuable and irreplaceable work. I believe it is a demonstration - and not for the first time - of our Commission's commitment to building a feeling of national peace to be handed over to the new generations. The true memory - that of all, the non-partisan one - is a heritage for our community in order to avoid that, having little memory, always agrees with the last one who speaks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u23	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the Servigliano camp is part of a bigger story: the dramatic history of the first half of the twentieth century, when convulsions and social tensions, instead of strengthening the nascent democracies, instead set fire to nationalism, wars, totalitarianism, the loss of reason and the denial of humanity and those hectares of land in the camp were closed and fenced by a wall, becoming a crossroads of events that marked the existence of millions of people in the torn Europe. The field of Servigliano is this place: a symbol and one of the points that form a map of memory that connects countless cities throughout Europe and that all should be traced, preserved and lived so that the eyes of the youngest - in particular the students - cross, through photos and documents, the eyes, the lives and the eyes of those in those fields was locked up, being able to redeem the right and the life that were usurped by them, through the duty of memory. Memory, in order to live, needs places, because it feeds on physicality, sensory experiences and emotions that become indelible and give us the consciousness that the world has been given to us to transmit it to future generations, as Adriano Prosperi wrote. This is what this measure is for and for this - I think - it has a meaning that goes beyond its object, because a society that loses memory remains blind and without identity. This is the risk we run at this time, which is dominated by the incessant flow of social networks, which reduces everything to an eternal present. We know, instead, that this is a distortion, a deception, because if you lose the awareness of the past, you lose also the sense of the future. That is why today, when there are those who want to confuse wrongs and reasons and erase history to stir up hatred and discrimination, exploiting the reasons for resentment (even the right ones), frustrations, lack of work, lack of perspective, this law has an even greater value. It can stimulate the birth of other similar laws and ideally binds to the cultural and political battle to strengthen the study of history in our school programs, preventing it from becoming residual, when instead it is a vital compass to orient itself in this time so confused and so complex. Having historical awareness of the facts that take place allows every student, every teenager, to be aware of himself, of his own role and of his own importance in society; to have the opportunity to change things, a critical sense towards what surrounds us, that desire for justice and emancipation that is the fundamental lever of democracy. It is this awareness, this political conscience, this civil ethics that holds together indissolubly history, memory, democracy: this is the meaning of this law. Mr President, it is an important political fact that, from the outset, since we deposited this text - it was more than a year ago, at another stage, when there was a much harsher parliamentary conflict than now - this proposal has been signed by the Presidents of all the groups present in this House, without distinction between majority and minority forces. And I would like to thank all my colleagues, just as I would like to thank my colleagues and the President of the Culture Commission, and then the rapporteur, Mr Rampi. Too many times the laws of parliamentary initiative manage to arrive in the Chamber; This is the case today, and I would like to thank the Conference of Leaders for that. For the matter that this text deals with, this law has in the signature of Senator Liliana Segre an inestimable value, and to Liliana Segre, still victim of serial haters who are a cause of shame for our country, we send a hug full of gratitude [[Applause]] , which is equal to the feeling of gratitude that Liliana Segre arouses everywhere, especially among the youngest who worship it. On April 23, two years ago, near April 25, Senator Segre visited the camp of Servigliano and it was for me a pride and an honor to be able to accompany her. Servigliano was a prison camp during the First and Second World Wars. After the end of the war, for many years (until 1955) it was a collection center for Giuliano-Dalmati refugees. Dramatic pages, and even more was the one after September 8, 1943, during the Nazi occupation, when it was the camp of internment of Jews, both Italian and foreign, victims of the abomination of the Shoe and the racial laws of the fascist regime. In May 1944 the Jews of Servigliano were deported to Auschwitz: most of them died as soon as they arrived in the camp; the others in the following weeks, due to hardship and ill-treatment. Only one girl managed to save herself: Susanna Hauser. Destiny meant that before even in the extermination camp, Susanna Hauser and Liliana Segre shared part of the captivity. In Servigliano, before crossing the gate of the camp, Liliana Segre asked the children and teachers around her, surrounding her with affection, to collect each one a stone and to leave it in front of the camp as a sign of her own presence and witness, as if to say: "I am here. We're here. A Pegno, a promise never to be indifferent to injustices and sufferings, because indifference and menephregism can kill: they can kill others, kill ourselves and can kill an entire society. As were not indifferent the peasant families of the countryside around Servigliano and the Valley of the Tenna, who gave life to an unarmed resistance, hiding in their homes, at the risk of their lives, prisoners fleeing from the camp during the last weeks of the fascism and Nazi occupation. A solidarity that was also empathy, on the part of peasants also vexed for years, because inside the collective pain there is the pain of each of us, as Lia Levi wrote. And this is a story page to be proud of. In the 1970s and 1980s, the municipality transformed the camp, that place that had been of pain and drama, into a "peace park," making it a place of participation and aggregation very frequented by children and families. In 2001, some teachers from the middle school in Servigliano formed the association "Casa della Memoria." Then began a work, still very active today, of research, documentation and dissemination, with many events, in particular dedicated to the Day of Memory, the Day of Remembrance, civil resistance, frontier literature, and with the participation of many young people. Scholarships and joint initiatives with local schools were born. Today, with this law, we give the recognition of a national monument to all this. It's a new impulse to all of this. In so doing, we maintain our obligations to our Republic, our obligations to our constituent Fathers, our obligations to the generations who, after us, will sit in this House. This is because democracy must be conquered every day and memory is the most powerful antidote to the evils that corrode it, intolerance, discrimination, inequalities. This is because - Mr President - memory sets us free. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I imagine that today the House will approve - as we all obviously hope - this draft law unanimously, as well as all the group leaders, without distinction, signed it. In so doing, the House is doing a non-trivial act today, because the declaration of the Servigliano camp as a national monument is not to be considered equivalent to the declaration of other national monuments, which are simply such for historical value. Today the House is doing an absolutely fundamental act, because the Servigliano camp - as Senator Verducci has just said - is, symbolically, almost the example of all the horrors of the twentieth century, since World War I. I would also like to recall that, at the end of World War I, at the beginning of 1919, the camp of Servigliano was destined for the reception of soldiers who were to be re-educated. This is to make us understand how that camp, from the beginning, had a special meaning, to arrive, through the Second World War, and become the place where dozens and dozens of Jews were locked up, there interned and then deported to Auschwitz, and then to the horror of the horrors of the twentieth century, until - indeed - to the Shoah. To declare Servigliano a national monument, therefore, means, not only to remember today in this House, but to ensure that it can be the monument to memory. Our Senator Liliana Segre's visit to that place and her signature to the provision bear witness to it. His work in all these years has been and continues to be not only witnessing, but also continuing a great battle against all discrimination, against all hatreds. Memory is what can save us and can break the wall of indifference; that same indifference that there was, of course, in the face of horrors and that, in part, was also responsible for what happened; the indifference of those who did not want to see, of those who perhaps knew and did not want to say, did not want to oppose. A national monument is not only a lesson in history, it also represents a militancy of history, a militancy of memory; it means fighting day after day against hatreds that have never been put up. My colleagues have mentioned the latest events, the insults, the hatred that continues to afflict our time. Let's also think about the latest episodes against Senator Segre. These continuous manifestations of hatred clearly show that it is not enough to study history, not only to deepen in schools, but also to continue a campaign of education in constant memory, which is our continuous exercise to save our democracy. Unfortunately, even today, we are faced with old and new hatreds. I believe that the declaration of the prison camp in Servigliano as a national monument - of course I hope it can also be approved quickly by the House of Deputies - would be a good way to celebrate 25 April. Today's vote is a commitment for each of us, and not only to cultivate memory, but also to become militants of memory. All the work done in Servigliano - remember the Park of Peace and La Casa della Memoria - is not only historical archive, but it is also a campaign of education continues to cultivate memory, which is the only way - I believe - to bind us to the old generations and not to repeat certain horrors. It is the only safeguard that we and the democracies have. We have seen, in the history of the twentieth century, even at the end of the century, how we tend to repeat mistakes and we also know that, if peoples do not cultivate memory, they have no antidote, no vaccine against the repetition of errors. That is why today's vote will be important. It is - I repeat - a vote that commits each one of us (not only the Groups, not only the political forces, but also all the senators and, when he goes to the House, the MPs), to cultivate and be militant of memory, which is closely linked to our Constitution, which we must honor, in order that the new generations can truly grow in a different world, in a world in which such horrors will finally be banished and never be repeated. For this reason we announce not only with conviction, but also with passion, the favorable vote of the Senators of LEU and the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u29	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the draft law under consideration decides to qualify as a national monument for the Servigliano camp and is an extremely appropriate issue. He has not for nothing collected the signature of all the group leaders and of course also of Senator Bernini, President of our Group, and of the life senator Liliana Segre. It is seriously appropriate not only because there is an important and profound connection with the issue of the extermination of the Jews - probably the greatest horror of the last century, the absolute evil, as it has been repeatedly and rightly defined - but also because it affects various tragedies of the last century, from the beginning, when it is destined to prison camp for the prisoners that Italy would have captured during the First World War. This was also a tragedy, with tens of millions dead: "useless slaughter" called it the Pontiff of that time. Austro-Hungarian, Turkish and Serbian prisoners came; among the Austro-Hungarians there were also future Italians, i.e. people born in territories later become Italians and who in many cases felt Italians (then they and their descendants became Italians). Afterwards there was the arrival of the redeemed, that is, those who, although not being prisoners, came from the Austro-Hungarian army and were naturalized Italians, some with much enthusiasm and pleasure, others probably with less enthusiasm; the pressure that there was in those periods was reflected also in the camp of Servigliano. After the period between the two wars, in which the use was less important, it became again a prison camp for those who at the time were the enemies of Italy, especially the Greeks, because of that war that was not particularly successful for Italy (however some Greek prisoners were made). Then there were British and American prisoners and also some French, who were freed or, better, managed to escape en masse when, a few days after September 8 (it would appear on September 20), they realized that German troops were about to arrive. They found very often the welcome of the local population, so much so that, among the tombstones in memory of the historical facts connected to that camp, there is one of gratitude from some Allied prisoners (British and American) to the local population, for the reception that they found with many families. In the meantime the Germans had arrived and the situation was very difficult; in any case they were deprived of sustenance and had no food, and that was a time when certainly the food did not abound even for the local population, but they were willing to help them. With the German occupation begins the raking of the few Jews of that area. It seems that there were about 110 Jews in Piceno; of these only 17 will escape capture and not end up in this or that concentration camp. Most of them ended up in Servigliano and from there, apart from some who managed to escape thanks to the raids of the partisans, several dozen were sent to Auschwitz. Ten were killed on the very day of their arrival - as part of the horrendous and infamous selection of those who could not be used as labor force were immediately suppressed children, elders and sick people and others died later due to the terrible conditions of the camp. One woman - as has already been mentioned - Susanna Hauser managed to survive. But it does not end here, because after sending to Auschwitz there were no more Jews in that camp and, when that area was in possession of the allied forces and also of the Italian liberation army - let us not forget - the soldiers of the Polish army were trained in that camp. This is also an extraordinary page in Italian history. Italy was liberated, of course, by British, American and other soldiers (there was also the Jewish brigade, for example), but also by some Polish soldiers, soldiers who came from a oppressed country, invaded, tormented by the Germans, who knew that the invasion by Soviet soldiers was under way in their country, determined to annihilate their nation, so, not being able to fight directly for the freedom of their country, they fought for our freedom and there some were trained. Some refugees also came - certain sources say Croatians, other Slovenians, but undoubtedly came from what later became Yugoslavia, which now no longer exists as such - probably refugees of Slovenian and Croatian ethnicity who had been displaced because of the war and who were probably of an adverse faction compared to the titines occupying those lands. The other big page of our history was the arrival of the Giuliano-Dalmati and Istrian refugees, who were welcomed in the camp, but we must not and cannot forget what happened in the passage of some of them. Some may have been coming right to Servigliano but, being the place small enough, there were not many. However, we cannot forget that the Communist Party of the time (the war had been over for a couple of years) organized a horrible boycott against those refugees who arrived to be hosted in other parts of Italy: in Bologna there was an assault on the train against those exhausted people, locked in cars as prisoners, and even poured on the tracks the milk intended for children who were suffering from dehydration. So finally came the closure of this camp, which has now been called the Peace Park. I would say Park of peace and memory, to remember the many tragedies of the last century, which had not one but various matrixes and evolutions. The hope is that the memory of what has been avoids the repetition not only of such tragedies, but also of what determines them, that is, hatred for other ethnic groups and populations, which is absolutely not linked to pride for their nation. Pride for your nation is absolutely not to be linked to contempt and hatred for others. The wars that have plagued our continent - the world in reality, but in particular our country - in the last century must not be forgotten. The schools, in particular, that will visit in this which from now on will be a national monument, can have on the spot the visual identification also, not only through the study, in the tragedies that have damaged our past and it is the duty of each one to do everything possible so that they do not repeat themselves, even in a minor form, in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u32	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Servigliano is a small town in the Marche Province of Fermo, which at the beginning of the First World War, in 1915 was chosen for a series of strategic characteristics as a place to host a prison camp. Three hectares of land west of the central nucleus of the country were used for the construction of thirty-two wooden shacks, each of which should have hosted 125 prisoners, 4,000 in all. The entire perimeter of the area was bordered by a wall three meters high, dominated by barbed wire: a strongly and tragically evocative image, which cannot help but arouse feelings of repugnance. That camp followed the fate of the historical events of our peninsula and, if initially saw prisoners of the Austro-Hungarian soldiers, it was later used for various functions: from a reeducation camp for the Italian soldiers redeemed in 1919 to a military deposit; from a prison camp for military allies to an internment camp for the Jews between 1943 and 1944. After the end of World War II, it was used as a training camp for Polish soldiers, then as a refugee camp for Slavs and, again, as a collection centre for Giuliano-Dalmati refugees. From this field, which began to empty since 1955, today remains the walls and two of the thirty-two barracks built initially. With successive redevelopments, the area now houses sports facilities for the use of the small town of Marche, which has thus seen the transformation of the area from prison camp to Peace Park. The change of destination and the current name of the area, however, cannot make us forget the ugliness that has occurred in it, despite it, in the course of the history of the last century. It is therefore for future memory, for a moral and civil duty, that we are obliged to remember, so that the tragedies caused by wars are not repeated; caused by totalitarian regimes of any political color; caused by deportations, with the consequent denial of fundamental human rights. From this will was born the bill under consideration, shared by all the political forces present in this House, to make the prison camp of Servigliano become a national monument. That area, now used for recreational and recreational purposes - whose past use has been left in an emblematic way two barracks, respectively at the beginning and at the end of the path that leads to the different sports fields and the gym - now called Peace Park, will now have the title of national monument, a sort of ransom also for the small community of Servigliano, guardian of an important historical memory to be transmitted to future generations. The Lega Group, co-signator of the draft law under consideration, also renews the invitation, proposed with an agenda accepted in the Commission, to take appropriate initiatives to highlight also the presence and suffering of Eritrean and Ethiopian refugees, as well as those mentioned above. At the end of my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to express to Senator Segre on my part and the entire Lega Group solidarity with the incredibly insults she was victimized a few days ago. What has happened is further confirmation that the adoption of the draft law, which we will shortly be voting on, is part of the context of actions which the political class is obliged to pursue in order to ensure that a culture of mutual respect and not discrimination is increasingly established. Only memory and witness can prevent the development of these aberrant behaviors and the national monument of the former prison camp of Servigliano will be useful precisely for this. The League Group will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u35	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like today to be able to express, in the best possible way, the most appropriate reason why we are here to declare the Servigliano camp a national monument. This prison camp was located in an area of the Marches where there was a small village that, in the early twentieth century, had no more than 2,700 inhabitants. So in 1915, with the entry into the war of Italy, 32 barracks were built, each of which had to contain 125 prisoners, as has already been told by those who preceded me. Obviously this has completely changed the history of that small community and all the events that followed around the construction of the prison camp. We must remember that there were first Austrian prisoners, then Jews, Greeks, Maltese, English and Americans, and finally the Italian refugees from Istria, Libya and Ethiopia. Three hectares of land that have upset the history of that small center, chosen above all for its position considered strategic at the time, being outside the war zone and important road nodes, but still well connected by an important railway network. Since 1955 the structure remained in conditions of abandonment, then in 1970 an illuminated administration of Servigliano began to develop a project of recovery of the place: the barracks were dismantled and in their place a series of sports facilities were built; a part of the perimeter walls remained to remember the suffering of many generations who had lived there. So the camp was finally filled with life, with young people, and it was called "Parco della Pace" (Peace Park), in 2001 the association La casa della memoria was born, which was able to start a careful work of research, documentation and dissemination of the memory of what had happened in that field, of which memory had almost been lost over the years. In fact, this story was known above all by the inhabitants of the Marches, of the small district in question, but in Italy this particular site, in which unfortunately all these tragedies had alternated, was not so well known. I would also like to give a strong signal, convey the true sense of memory and not to forget, as well as the value of witnessing by means of a concrete and tangible act. Precisely for this reason, I would like to highlight the importance of declaring a national monument the former prison camp in Servigliano. This proposal has been unanimously approved by the 7th Senate Commission - I repeat, after my colleagues have done so too, but I believe that it is crucial to stress this - making real a project by Senator Liliana Segre who lived in the first person, as you all know, the horrors of the Holocaust and who personally visited the camp of Servigliano in April 2019. The recognition of a national monument has enormous civil and moral significance. Well, if it is true, as it is true, that national monuments must correspond to a unique specificity and are sites or areas that the Italian State considers to have particular characteristics, such as to bind them and place them as symbolic points of reference to the national community, then here we are faced with a monument that has all the characteristics to be declared national. [[Applause]] Moreover - and I conclude - in this specific case I am pleased to stress that the word monument comes from the Latin monument, that is, "remember," exactly what, with the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars and in communion with all the political representatives of the 7th Senate Commission, we want to achieve, that is, the memory of a tragedy, which must induce us, as citizens of the world, not to relive it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u36	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u37	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy and the Minister for Culture will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Cucca has the right to explain the question 3-02315 on the contrast to the bacterium xylella annoying and on the support to the affected territories, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that for years the emergency of xylella has been oppressing the agricultural sector and in particular the olive groves of our country, with particular regard to the territories most vexed by this plague, namely Salento - as is well known - and southern Puglia. The pathogenic bacterium xylella annoying, in fact, is transmitted by particular insects that feed on xylematic lymph and whose function is to transport water from roots to leaves. It affects many varieties of plants causing serious diseases that cause the clogging of xylematic vessels, leading in a short time first to the progressive drying of the leaves and then the death of the entire plant. According to data from the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the European Agency established in 2002 in Parma, which provides scientific communication advice on the risks associated with the food and feed chain, currently 563 plant species belonging to a total of 82 botanical families are vulnerable to the bacterium attack. In view of the danger of bacterium diseases and its progressive spread throughout the world, national and supranational public authorities have for some time undertaken ways of combating, preventing and controlling the bacterium, as well as supporting the affected companies with a view to regulating the problem and taking action to overcome it. Among the most recent interventions at European level we can recall the publication by EFSA last June of guidelines for the detection of annoying xylella. This document provides guidance for the use of phytosanitary investigators, the detection and control of phytopathogens to establish surveillance plans based on statistical principles and possible risk factors. In the Italian context, however, for years the Ministry has continued and continues to continue, also in collaboration with the local authorities concerned, programmes to combat the spread of the bacteria. We can refer, merely as an example, to district contracts xylella and to the sustainable regeneration programme. In view of the fact that in recent months important and valuable measures have been launched to achieve the agricultural regeneration of the territories affected by xylella, it is asked to know whether the Ministry is aware of the dramatic situation faced by farmers vexed by the spread of xylella annoying, what developments and what further initiatives will be taken in order to implement as soon as possible the contrast to xylella annoying in the affected territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u39	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. The spread of annoying xylella in the Provinces of Lecce, Brindisi and Taranto has caused considerable damage and has compromised the production capacity of the agricultural and agri-food sector of the areas affected by the bacteria of the Apulian Region. The contrast to the spread of the bacterium is among the first points I intend to address first. Annual monitoring is in place throughout the national territory and within the outbreak areas and the eradication of infected plants and containment of the insect vector responsible for the spread of the bacterium is ongoing. I inform that for the activities of investigation and the eradication Italy obtains annually the co-financing of the European Union for the expenses incurred by the Region, pursuant to the European Regulation n. 652 of 2014 compensating the owners of the plants that have provided the compulsory killings. With the intervention plan for the revival of the agricultural and agri-food sector in the territories affected by xylella annoying has been defined the programming to counter the expansion of the bacterium and have been identified the actions necessary for the restoration and the revival of the olive cultivation and the agricultural economy of the affected territory that can count on the resources activated by the law on agricultural emergencies pairs to 150 million euros for each of the years 2020-2021. With Ministerial Decree No 2484 of 6 March 2020 the extraordinary plan for the olive regeneration of Puglia has defined a strategy of intervention based on different actions: the restoration of the productive potential of the affected territories through the removal of the dried plants; the replantation of resistant olive groves or the conversion to other crops in the infected area; the revival of the rural economy of the damaged areas; the strengthening of the network of public laboratories and research, the monitoring of the territory for the early detection of new positive cases. As far as the resources allocated are concerned, EUR 120 million has already been transferred to the Region of Puglia to promote the economic and productive recovery of the farms damaged by annoying xylella as well as an additional EUR 20 million to the Agency for the disbursements in agriculture (AGEA) to support the oil mills that have reduced or, in many cases, blocked the milling activity. Finally, I would like to point out that in order to boost economically the areas affected by the bacterium, the first two supply chain contracts, known as the xylella supply chain contracts, have already been approved for investments of more than EUR 97 million over the three years. The procedure for authorizing the third project is also being set up in order to restore the affected plants, but also and above all to improve the structures and, where appropriate, to convert in accordance with the productions, the tradition of the territory and the productive inclinations. I repeat that I will continue to pay the greatest attention to the problem raised, including by considering the possibility of identifying additional resources or measures to combat this serious scourge which has affected an important sector of production such as olive oil. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u41	Senator Cucca has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u42	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply. From his words, I believe that a fairly important action has already been taken in this area by those who preceded him in his office. I have no doubt, knowing you, that you will be a careful observer of this problem which you know well, as you have pointed out, poses objective problems in the development of agriculture, has suffered enormous damage. Above all, there is the need for a revival of those lands and the agriculture sector, hit by this so annoying bacterium. The hope is therefore that we will continue along the path we have taken, and we are sure that it will continue in its action and commitment to this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u43	Senator De Carlo has the right to explain question 3-02310 on the proposal for a European classification of foodstuffs with the Nutri-score system, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u44	Mr President, first of all I wish Mr Patuanelli a good job; a difficult job, which will certainly not be easy in a sector, that of agriculture, constantly under attack by our European competitors. The Nutri-score, a traffic light labelling system, the introduction of which is strongly supported by large lobby and multinational companies, is just one of these classic examples. It is a model that endangers the maintenance of our agri-food system, which we know is worth 552 billion and 15% of GDP, but - worse still - it endangers the very existence of our traditional products. It is in fact now before everyone's eyes the subtle attempt, because masked by health protection, to penalize traditional products in order perhaps to favor those foods built in the laboratory precisely by those multinational ones that today advocate its introduction. A paradox for which olive oil, for example, a classic ingredient of our Mediterranean diet, is perhaps classified with the red traffic light, while the synthesis Red Bull is perhaps classified with the green traffic light. The introduction of Nutri-score, which has been skillfully orchestrated to influence public opinion, is in fact a real media encircling of our traditional products that in the world, as in Europe, are universally recognized for quality and health. We at the Brothers of Italy had already denounced the danger of it last year, forcing Parliament to take a clear and determined position against its adoption. But since then, Minister, the situation has certainly not improved. Indeed, the Farm to Fork strategy has made it clear that mandatory labelling must be harmonised by 2022. Of course, some quarrels within the old government have in fact left the field to the six nations that have organized themselves in a committee precisely to plead the obligatoryness of this label and, therefore, to be able to condition the enterprises. I therefore ask you what strategy you intend to put in place for the defence of national products and, above all, national interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u45	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u46	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members who have asked questions and I would like to respond immediately to them. We are organizing together with a number of European countries which, like Italy, are fighting against the introduction of an absurd classification at the traffic lights of nutritional labelling for packages. This will be the best way to try to fight against those who are probably led by the companies, mentioned by you, who have an interest in getting an advantage in the large distribution for products that are not of our territory, but of other type. I believe it is in everyone's eyes that this is unacceptable for our country and our productions, also because we have many local productions, such as PDO and PGI products, which by law must guarantee the presence of nutritional elements of a certain type and certainly cannot adapt to what is required to obtain the absurd green light. Some things have already been done. When I was Minister for Economic Development I was one of the signatories to the proposal for a battery label, which is much more sensible and clearly highlights the nutritional values of food and those related to daily needs. I can make my own contribution. I lost 25 kilos by changing my diet and approaching what UNESCO has declared an immaterial heritage of humanity: the Mediterranean diet. [[Applause]] It is clear that olive oil contains fats and probably, to quote his words, even more than those of Red Bull, but I will never drink a liter of olive oil in one day. We must therefore take into account the amount of food we consume, because a balanced diet is what counts and the problem is mainly cultural. We must make it clear to the European Commission that what is important is to convey the cultural values of healthy food, which means that the glass of wine at the end of the meal is good, while a bottle and a half are not. This is the central theme and can not be a label on the bottle to say whether a food hurts or not in absolute, because this always depends on the way a person feeds. We are deeply convinced of this and all together we must wage a strong battle in Europe - not only us as a country, but together with other countries that we are engaging in this path - because if it is true, as it is true, that citizens and consumers have the right to know the nutritional values of the food they eat, it is equally true that this right must be guaranteed in the correct way and not to bring an unfair advantage to multinational producers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u47	I give the floor to Senator De Carlo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u48	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you and ask you to pass on to me the diet you have followed so that I too can enjoy your benefits. I can only share your words, but - allow me - they squeal a little with the statements made yesterday by Minister Cingolani (the technician of that Dicastery that you also welcomed with great enthusiasm), who are partly spoiled by ideology. From a technician we would have expected different statements compared to food, meat and Italian farms, which are a classic example of green agriculture. I say this to you, Minister, because in order to defend Italian products and producers we need not only to have a common view, but also to have it translated into concrete facts. We are under attack and it is clear that we need a government that defends the national interest of our producers, our products, our people and the many traditions that the whole world envies us today. We cannot claim to go to a Europe of sharks with a timid attitude or - worse still - of subjection to the Diktat of the lobby. Nor do they reassure us of Draghi's statements on the day he came to the Senate and said that he would give more national sovereignty to the benefit of Europe. We want your Government and you to protect the Italian product first and every time you do so you will always find this part of the House at your side, even more so than some members of your own majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u49	Senator Stefano has the right to explain question 3-02311 on the European labelling of wine as a product harmful to health for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u50	Mr President, first of all I wish Mr Patuanelli, the recipient of an important delegation to the Italian system, a good job. I believe that government action must be re-launched vigorously and you, Minister, have the tools and the approach to doing well, so, also on behalf of the Democratic Party, I wish you good work. Italy is a world leader in wine production, with over 11 billion euros of turnover, and with employment coverage that exceeds 1.3 million people. The so-called action plan to improve the health of European citizens, approved by the European Commission, provides, among other things, for the cancellation of funds for the promotion of wine - a very serious fact - and the introduction by 2023 of a series of health warnings directly on packaging. The Commission's document starts from an erroneous assumption, from my point of view, that any consumption of alcohol or drink with alcohol content is harmful, without taking into account the amount consumed or the conditions under which that consumption takes place. The vice president of the European Commission Schinas, after the controversy that this argument has legitimately aroused, has specified that the European Union has no intention to prohibit the wine or to label it as a toxic substance, recognizing therefore as improper the comparison between the excessive consumption of superalcoholics, typical of the Nordic countries, and the moderate consumption of products of quality and low gradation (such as wine). Given that, despite the words of Schinas, the action plan is currently in force and therefore provides for these labels, beyond the values of alcoholic content, Italian producers cannot remain in uncertainty, at such a delicate time. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what initiatives you intend to take and whether it is not appropriate to hear all the Italian actors for joint action. I want to bring you a personal experience. In 2007 the European Union was releasing a mocking regulation for Italian rose wine: they wanted to recognize the simple blend of white wine and red wine as rose wine. With the Apulian producers I went to Brussels, entered a fight and we won that battle. Battles, when they are right, can also be won in Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u51	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his question. It is clear that the intercourse with all the professional associations, but also with the Ministry of Health - I will say this even after - and with other colleagues, is fundamental in order to achieve a result in Europe, which is necessary. In part, as I said before, the Mediterranean diet, an immaterial heritage of humanity, is formed by a varied diet: pasta, bread, meat, olive oil, accompanied by a glass of wine. This has allowed Italian citizens to have the European primacy of longevity. Evidently, the glass of final wine is not as bad as someone wants us to believe, and the protection of our agri-food products, especially those most representative of Made in Italy, such as wines, is one of the priorities that the Government intends to pursue, not only for the benefit of the productive sectors, but also of consumers who, through a correct and transparent labelling, can make a conscious choice of their purchases. In this direction, while appreciating the European Commission's valuable commitment to protecting citizens' health, we cannot allow a decision contained in the action plan to improve the health of European citizens to criminalise individual products unfairly. In fact, health must be safeguarded by promoting a balanced and varied diet, without reproaching individual foods. I represent that, as part of the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy, the European Commission had already put forward a proposal to amend Article 119 of Regulation (EU) No 1308 of 2013 with a view to making nutrition declarations and the list of ingredients used mandatory in the labelling of wine products. During the long and complex negotiations, which led to the compromise reached in the Council and in Parliament last October, this approach has been thoroughly reviewed, given that the nutrition declaration can be limited to the indication of energy value, while the list of ingredients can be provided electronically. It is now a question of monitoring, both at the stages leading to the adoption of the CAP reform and at the stage of amending the regulation on food information for consumers, so that this approach is not distorted in the name of an indiscriminate approach to combating alcohol, with which wine has nothing to do with it. It will be my concern to follow the topic with the utmost attention, also with the necessary support and coordination with the Ministry of Health, which has the primary competence on the matter. We are already working and will work in all European fora to counter the implementation of the decisions on wine contained in the aforementioned plan, not only in the light of scientific literature, but also in the firm conviction that the possible harmfulness of this product is never determined by the product itself, but by the abuse of that product. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u53	Senator Taricco may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u54	Mr President, I too take the opportunity to wish the Minister good work. We really need it. All agriculture and all the national territory really need it. Of course, I very much welcome your words. As Senator Stefano said earlier, we welcomed Commissioner Schinas' words. Having said that, however, we need to reiterate two things. The first is that we are absolutely convinced of the need for balanced, healthy, natural nutrition and that labels provide all the information to consumers in order to make the most of it. This is also because we are convinced that the food element is fundamental, as a compound and in reference to health. We are, however, also convinced that the theme is not the value of food itself, but the way and the amount of intake, as you said before. We are talking about the defense of a series of foods (wine, oil, cheese, honey and many others), which are fundamental and at the basis of that Mediterranean food culture, that food diet, to which you referred, which has been classified as an immaterial cultural heritage of humanity. And it has been classified in this way because it is the result of a series of traditions, social customs, food culture, artisan production, which have made our agriculture and our territory great, also giving health to its citizens. Defending that culture and those elements, defending wine in this sense is equivalent to defending people's health. Minister, we will truly support you in your work, with all possible alliances, to defend this idea and this culture of health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u55	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-02312 on the protection and promotion of Made in Italy agri-food, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u56	Minister, the Italian food supply chain is the only economic sector that resists, in this emergency coronavirus that has caused the billing of all the other sectors protagonists of Made in Italy, especially in the world. The food supply chain stands out with 538 billion turnover, a very strong agri-food value, and has become the country's first wealth. Gro-food is an enlarged reality: 3.8 million people are employed in this sector, which is now worth 25% of gross domestic product; 740,000 farms; 70,000 structured industrial holdings; over 330,000 catering establishments; 230,000 retail outlets; services and all the input in transport. A network spread throughout the territory, which is daily supplied by the Italian countryside, where stables, greenhouses and companies continue to produce despite the difficulties related to the pandemic. The food supply chain, then, is protagonist in the world, having recorded a continuous growth. In 2019, 44.6 billion turnover exports. Almost two thirds of the turnover is directed to the European Union, where Germany is the main outlet. For the rest, outside the European Union, the main outlet is the United States. It is good news, just these days, that of the food shop in China: over 500 million euros in 2020, with a growth of 20.5%. We have an extraordinary heritage, as you said before: 305 specialties PDO, PGI, STG; 415 DOC wines; 5,155 traditional and regional products; 60,000 organic farms. But a very important fact is the primacy of world food safety, with fewer agri-food products with irregular chemical residues. We are also the champions of biodiversity. Mr Minister, given all this, there are two basically reasons for this question. The first is the defense against Italian soiling in the world and counterfeiting, which is worth twice as much as export: 100 billion per year. We want to know what initiatives you intend to take at the beginning of this important mandate, which also has our support. On the other hand, there is the theme of labelling: no to Nutri-score, as has been said before; no to traffic light and labels that deceive the consumer; yes to those that give prestige, strength, value and content to the product and above all enhance the supply chain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u57	Mr President, I thank the interrogating senators and I want to start by thanking the entire agri-food chain, because in a year of pandemics it has never left our citizens without food, even with the many difficulties that it has had to endure. It is not true that it is a sector that has not suffered the crisis; it has been a crisis probably asymmetrical within that sector, but there are many companies - I think the whole Horeca chain - that has suffered and is still suffering a lot for this pandemic. So I can only thank our farmers, our producers and our processors who have shown great resilience. The questioners put a number of questions to my attention: on the part of labelling, objectively, having already answered other questions, I would like to refer to the answers I have already given, but it seems clear to me that this issue is known by all the political forces represented in this House. On the other hand, as far as control activities are concerned, I believe that it is also right to acknowledge and credit the Central Inspectorate for the protection of quality and fraud prevention of agri-food products for the work it does on a daily basis. On the phenomenon of so-called italian soiling or falsifying, even internal, food products, I believe that the exercise of falsely evocative indications must be incredibly combated, precisely thanks to the inspection activities of our inspectorate. The controls are carried out through computerized systems (the innovation capabilities of our control systems are essential to ensure greater effectiveness and efficiency of the inspectorate); during the inspections, samples of controlled products are taken and then subjected to chemical-physical analysis, in some cases also organoleptic, using the network of specialized laboratories for different product sectors. Our network of laboratories is widespread and present throughout the country. In addition, through assistance and cooperation services between competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, alerts exchanged with authorities of other Member States concerning irregularities detected on labelling devices are processed. I will provide some data: in 2020 the inspectorate managed 127 reports, 88 of which on the indication of other Member States and 39 of Italian initiative; 11 reports concerned the EU control plan promoted by the Commission to combat illegal practices on online sales and advertising of food products with illicit references to prevention and care of the Covid-19. As far as web commerce is concerned, at international level, specific protocols of understanding with the main online trading platforms have been signed or are still being finalised, strengthening the protection of consumers who use the so-called e-commerce platforms. Thanks to the collaboration with the above-mentioned platforms, 1,079 interventions were activated in 2020; in the last five years of activities to protect national agri-food production outside the borders and on the web a total of 4,418 cases have been dealt with concerning PDO and PGI products. This represents the framework of what the inspectorate does and it is essential that it is put into the condition (also for this reason the organic endowment must be implemented) to carry out checks and controls, in part on the products we produce, to monitor the quality and understand that what comes to the citizens' table is exactly what the producers declare, but above all to avoid those distorting phenomena of competition, with fraud on the one hand and Italian soiling on the other. It is certainly a very important topic for our Ministry and it will be my care to support inspection activities, even by simplifying procedures, precisely to allow the inspectorate to be more effective and efficient in its interventions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bergesio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u58	Minister, we welcome your commitment to counter the spread of misleading labelling systems and to set up systems for the protection of Made in Italy. In our opinion it is necessary to rethink a new protagonism of Italy in Europe for the defense of Made in Italy, protecting Italian food excellence from continuous attempts to overpower. You know that the nutritional balance is not achieved by the use of algorithms, but by the appropriate consumption of different foods during the day. In this regard, allow me to stigmatise what has been said by the Minister for the ecological transition Cingolani, who said that those who eat too much meat suffer health impacts. We believe that certain statements, if not supported, should not be expressed and that they are absolutely not acceptable. I would like to point out that in Italy the real per capita consumption of meat is less than 100 grams per day recommended by the World Health Organization, also thanks to the perfect balance of our diet; a diet that collects the best of Made in Italy, thanks to which Italy boasts over 15,000 ultracentenarians and the record of longevity and quality of life. Thinking of taking blame and identifying responsibility seems frankly incomprehensible and distant from that path of united government that we want, which includes certain and defined resources that can support agriculture in the application of the new National Recovery and Resilience Plan to the examination of the Agriculture Commission. Each of us will do our part well, Minister, and all those involved in agri-food will benefit from it; I am convinced that you feel the same way as we do. We team up: first the Italian farmers, always.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u59	We greet and thank Minister Patuanelli. [[Applause]] It was a salute applause from his desks. Senator Corrado has the power to explain the question 3-02316 on the restoration work of the ancient theatre of Velia in Campania, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u60	Mr President, the Minister is asked to explain the "recovering and integration of the sessions of the theatre of Velia": a restoration intervention currently underway in the Hellenistic-Roman theatre located in the archaeological park of Velia, associated with that of Paestum, developed on the previous works carried out in the nineties, which has aroused many doubts both for the highly invasive character (even if carried out in the absence, apparently, of the prior authorization of the Superintendence of Archaeology, Fine Arts and Territorial Landscape), and for the anomalies of the administrative process underlying the choice of the designer, the sole manager of the procedure and the director of the works, as well as for the activation of a questionable procedure of sum the urgency, with the consequent direct trust to a company founded in May 2019 and therefore deprives of the experience and reliability indispensable in the delicate sector of the restoration of cultural assets. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u61	Mr President, with regard to the question put by the Senator, concerning a technical and scientific intervention (which is obviously not my responsibility), I merely refer to the elements acquired by the director of the Archaeological Park of Paestum and Velia (Paeve), which, according to the rules in force, also carries out the functions of the Archaeology Superintendence, Fine Arts and Landscape. The intervention of recovery and integration of the sessions of the theatre of Velia, pursuant to Article 3 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001, appears as an extraordinary maintenance rendered necessary due to an advanced degradation of the structure and not as a restoration intervention. The work was not entrusted with an urgent procedure, but by virtue of a direct trust under Article 36 of Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016, through the E-Market of Public Administration (MEPA). The management company has been identified through the consultation of the digital register of companies, which ensures the rotation of tasks as established practice in this administration. It should be noted that companies registered with MEPA, in order to obtain registration, are subject to the examination of the requirements of professionalism, technical skill and good repute. With regard to the authorization of the intervention, it is recalled that the ministerial decree of 9 April 2016, in article 4, paragraph 3, provides that "Inside the boundaries of their respective competence and in the institutes, places, real estate and complex assigned, the directors of the archaeological parks referred to in this article carry out (...) the duties of the Superintendents of Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape. The intervention in question therefore did not require further authorization from the Superintendence. With regard to the interventions in question, it should be noted that the acts are published on the Paeve's institutional website, in the activities and procedures section, which can be freely consulted. The appointment of the OR and the director of the works took place in accordance with the principles contained in the guidelines ANAC n. 3 of implementation of the legislative decree of 18 April 2016 n. 50, which lay down the criteria for the appointment of the sole manager of the procedure for the assignment of contracts and concessions. Moreover, it is stressed that the work in progress does not alter in any way the visual impact of the integrations, as they recover punctually the restoration carried out in 2003-2004, guaranteeing the full reversibility and recognizability of the intervention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u62	Mr Minister, you have just answered my question by reading what your offices have written to you, but you do not know the subject directly, so you do not fully realize the unsustainability of your reply. This, however, does not absolve it: it is she, in fact, who not only granted special autonomy to about forty museums, archaeological areas and monuments among the most important in Italy, but she chose their directors, with a procedure that the TAR has repeatedly reaffirmed to have non-competitive character, since they are trust appointments. You chose these figures mostly outside the public administration, drawing mainly from university baronati, largely without or with very little experience in the administration and management of complex structures, or even mediocre from the scientific point of view. You are the father of this genius, Minister, but not only: you have made them equal to yourself, in your image, so hungry for results that are pure appearances. To respond to this model, directors such as Zuchtriegel, of the Archaeological Park of Paestum and Velia (which he has now promoted to Pompeii, therefore to a general level direction), have frenetically activated projects of millions of euros, entrusting them however to internal staff, which has neither the specific competences, nor the titles that the law requires, and therefore have exchanged autonomy by will, which was not - I suppose - in the initial intentions of his reform. It is also responsible for this, because you, Minister, who for five years and three years and three governments have held the cultural heritage of the country hostage, have done nothing or at least did not act to hire staff, so you have not filled that shortage of staff which now in the Ministry that you lead for the third time unmistakably affects almost 50%. In Velia the restoration project of the theatre made him a surveyor who seems to be framed as a technical operator, so we are at a very low step of the second area, and the RUP is an accountant. Of course I'm not mad at these people, but I wonder where Director Zuchtriegel was when the works were entrusted to that company, born in 2019. In essence, Minister, it is you who has reduced our cultural heritage in these conditions and will therefore be remembered as the worst Minister of Cultural Heritage in the history of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u63	Senator Cangini has the right to explain the question 3-02314 on the reopening in safety of places of culture and entertainment, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u64	Minister, there is a reason why dance, and even more music, have always done and are still part of the horizon of all religions and cults. There is a reason why art, culture and beauty have always been central to all civilizations and has to do with the deepest human nature, the spirit or - for those who believe in it - with the soul. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are rightly and dutylessly worrying about treating and protecting the body of Italians from the virus, but we are dangerously neglecting its spirit. I fear that all of this will have social costs which we will have to take into account sooner or later. Surely there is a serious social cost to blocking part of cultural activity in the broad sense: more than a million people - this is the chain that is part of the diverse world of so-called culture - who do not mainly work, from the noblest and most prestigious lyrical tenors to the darkest and anonymous of the technicians of a theater, have had the life substantially frozen and blocked for over a year. So, Minister, Forza Italia obviously asks you to anticipate the reopenings, compatible with reality: we do not escape that the pandemic situation is getting worse and that the variants of the virus oblige - and probably even more so in the next few days - to further closures. Above all, however, what must be done immediately is to fill up the so-called restaurants, simplify the procedures to access them and understand in the category of those who have the right to those - many, unfortunately - professional categories and individual professionalism that make up the world of culture, which up to now have had their right denied.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u65	The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u66	I thank Senator Cangini, who poses a real theme. As we know, the crisis of the emergency Covid has impacted on many sectors, in particular that of culture, because the places where people meet together in so many - including theatres, cinemas - to attend concerts or cultural events have been hit strongly by the security measures made necessary by Covid, which has resulted in a prolonged closure, with some stages of reopening in the summer months with many security measures and quotas that have limited its capacity and have complicated the activity of people and businesses. For this reason, from the beginning, we have followed a policy of support to all cultural institutions (theaters, cinemas), first of all with the full provision of the Single Fund for Shows (FUS), beyond the number of shows and the respect of the parameters normally required to obtain the contribution, guaranteeing the same delivery of 2019; the same thing we will do in 2021. Secondly, through the emergency funds, we have tried to protect all the institutions that are not included in the FUS, so-called extra FUS, at the same time occupying the staff, with the extension of the integration fund to a sector that has never had it and the coverage of all those workers, so-called intermittent and seasonal, who could not be covered by it. From this point of view too, it is clear that, as the closures continue or the reopenings will be limited, we will have to continue with a series of refreshment or support interventions, let us call them as we wish, which will also be contained in the next "decree support." This is essential, because it is a matter of accompanying these people, workers and businesses, until possible recovery. As you know, Senator Cangini, according to the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, is allowed to reopen in the yellow areas of theaters and cinemas from 27 March - a date also strongly symbolic, because in it is celebrated the "World Theatre Day" - with a series of prescriptions that inevitably limit the capacity to allow distance and with security measures that have been defined and agreed with the technical-scientific committee. We know, however, that, even in areas where it will be possible to reopen, reopening will be limited and therefore it will be necessary to continue with refreshments even if the structures can be reopened. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u67	I give the floor to Senator Cangini to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u68	Mr President, I am basically satisfied with the Minister's reply, particularly with regard to the last part of his speech. The fear was in fact that, allowing the opening of cinemas and theatres from March 27 - I very much hope it will happen - there would then be the risk of the suspension of the so-called restaurants, which would obviously be wretched, because it is clear that, between social distance and social alarm, therefore the fear of contagion, the billed and the collections of cinemas and theatres will be little more than symbolic. Only one warning, Minister, since we have already lived it unfortunately with the newspapers (I say this having been touched in the first person, given the job I did before being elected): there is the risk that a long period of suspension from the activity in the presence of cultural enjoyment disaffection the public and that people do not get used to going to the cinema and the theater and fall back on the video of an iPad or - god we fall - even worse, than a smartphone. This is an important risk, which I'm sure you won't neglect.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u69	Senator Montevecchi has the right to explain the question 3-02313 on the need for an overall reorganization of the entertainment sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u70	Mr President, Minister, the current social and health emergency has imposed the closure of all places of live culture and entertainment for a long time. The whole cultural chain was suddenly hit by this emergency, which has no precedent. The efforts and measures of economic support put in place by the Conte government and its Ministry, both to support income and to provide for forms of reopening where possible, are certainly appreciated. Nevertheless, there were problems with regard, for example, to the non-inclusion of certain Ateco codes and certain administrative delays. This shock has made even more fragile the workers of the world of cultural goods and live entertainment (today's topic, in particular): precariousness, intrinsic intermittentness of the work of some figures, certain situations of outsourcing, the strong presence of atypical contracts and, basically, the absence of a social security and welfare system ad hoc have fueled a general dramatic condition for these workers. The criteria for the distribution of the Single Fund for Performing Arts (FUS) and Extra FUS were also critical. Other calls have not in some cases refreshed all the categories that needed them: it is the case, for example, of independent emerging discography; instead, in other cases inequalities have been fostered, as for the workers of the lyric-symphonic foundations, which, in the opinion of the questioner, have unreasonably obtained the contributions of the wage integration fund (FIS); or we are talking about circles and cultural associations that have been penalized. Already before the pandemic, right on the FUS I had personally promoted a deal assigned to the 7th Commission and a resolution was voted on to review the criteria for repartitioning. Unfortunately, I must point out that the Ministry has not yet produced a proposal which takes overall account of the addresses expressed. A bill was presented to the House of Deputies, signed by Mrs Gribaudo and Mr Carbonaro, on the protection of work in the show and other proposals were added later. I therefore ask you, in the light of this context, what initiatives the Ministry is undertaking for the parties of direct competence and which is promoting in synergy with the Ministry of Labour and Social Security in order to achieve the objectives assigned and shared, including the resumption of the revision of the code of the show. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u71	The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u72	Mr President, of course, emergency interventions, as Senator Montevecchi has pointed out, may have had aspects that worked well and others that did not work, partly because we are in a totally unexplored ground. In the entertainment sector, the absolute difference and variety of types of contracts (intermittents, seasonal or precarious) without a census has enabled us to intervene, on the one hand, in a rather simple way, that is, with the extension of the integration fund, as I mentioned before; on the other, with a requirement that has been realized through the first calls for measures of 600 euros and the subsequent 600 euros and then of 1,000 euros and the other 1,000 euros, we have been able to censor the workers of the sector, also in this case, for the first time. In this way, numbers and types of contracts have emerged which will now enable us to address the issue that Parliament has repeatedly raised, namely the regularisation and typing of contracts in the entertainment sector on the basis of certain numbers, namely those that received emergency funds, which asked questions. We therefore have both a quantification and characterizations compared to these types so varied and little known. I believe that this is a fundamental requirement, but we have instruments to carry out, of course beyond the emergency interventions that will continue, as I said before. More generally, as the honourable Member has asked, in relation to the legislative decrees of Law No 175 of 2017, these are delegations that had already expired before the beginning of my mandate in September 2019 and the presentation of the bill related to the budget maneuver 2020 was obviously overcome by the events of the emergency. In any case, it is my intention to present the bill related to the 2021 budget maneuver, with which we intend to reopen the delegation provided for by Law No 175 of 2017 on entertainment, through the revision of the code of the show. That will be the occasion, with a participatory mechanism, to censor the various types of workers and understand, beyond the measures of refreshment for the emergency, what can be the guarantees to be made available to a sector whose workers have the right to be regulated, guaranteed and protected like the others, which has never happened in a precise way in the world of live entertainment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u73	Senator Montevecchi has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am not entirely satisfied with the answer, because it is true that the delegations had expired, but we come from the previous legislature, in which Minister was the one who had completed the code of the show: therefore, this does not seem to me to be a great justification. That we should wait for a new draft law to revise the code, when there is already one, linked to the 2020 budget maneuver, I do not find it frankly appropriate, given the timing and urgency, so I would like to take that text back. If, however, a new text is coming, it's fine: we'll evaluate it. On the contrary, I am satisfied with the part where, finally, thanks to the pandemic, we have come to have certain numbers and types and therefore, surely, a solid base on which to start. Minister, I also invite you, when the final document is voted on, to take a look at Mr Carbonaro's survey of the House of Deputies, which I believe will be very useful to you for a solid start, because everything will not be all right if everything is the same. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u75	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u78	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, I read that the Director-General for Museums, Massimo Osanna, has just declared that he wants to export the Pompeii model to all Italian cultural places. I would like to clarify to those present and to the country what we are talking about. A few minutes ago I asked Minister Franceschini about the works in the theatre of Velia, that is, a restoration of the restoration carried out in the nineties of the last century. At a distance of about twenty or thirty years it is necessary in fact to intervene again, in order to guarantee the conservation. Think of what this means when dealing not with a single monument, but with an entire ancient city, where - as in the case of Pompeii, stage of world archaeology - excavations return roads, houses and temples in exceptional conditions and in which, however, excavations and restorations began three centuries ago. That's why I am horrified when I hear Osanna or the Minister, his mentor, declare enthusiastic, after every striking discovery, that there are still dozens of hectares to dig. To keep digging Pompeii with this spirit means to condemn her to an inexorable decline. Archaeology cannot be an instrument of power, nor a cylinder from which an extraordinary, exceptional and unrepeatable surprise is drawn whenever the super-director on duty or the Minister himself receives criticism for his striking managerial inability. Last December it was the turn of the thermopoly, which is not only one of the 80 thermopolia discovered so far, but which had already been identified in February 2019. Celebrating it has served to counter the repressing of the European Union for the poor management of funds allocated to the House of the Ephebo. A few days ago, then, it was the wedding or ceremonial carro - however in time - of Civita Giuliana, who was used to welcome the new director, Zuchtriegel, distracting the Italians from his responsibilities in the bad administration of Paestum and Velia, where they tell me that, shortly, Osanna will go pilgrim, in person, to give the placet to the poor restoration works of the theater, which however is of everyone and this is enough to decide to rebuild it badly, to welcome spectators and shows. We are now beyond the promoveatur ut amoveatur, we are at the promoveatur ut deleatur. This is the Pompeii model, honored by Osanna. Instead, I propose to export the model Italy to Pompeii, so that the tradition of Republican Italy, in the matter of the protection and conservation of cultural goods, has gathered consensus throughout the world, before Franceschini and his freedoms sold the cultural heritage to the worst bidder.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u81	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, yesterday, in the parliamentary committee on the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, Minister Franceschini, on the so-called Netflix of culture, said that the law passed in Parliament expressly provides for the establishment of the platform with Cassa depositi e loani, which can involve public and private subjects and that, at that point, the Ministry had nothing to do with it, but RAI did not participate. He added that, since we are in Parliament, if there is anything to change, there is also reason to change some of the rules, so as to involve the country's main cultural industry in an initiative that sells Italian culture in the world; he also said that he could not do so, but that, if there were an act of the Supervisory Committee, he would be happy. What Franceschini said is a clear mystification of the facts. In fact, article 183, paragraph 10, of the decree-law I throw again states that, in order to support the resumption of cultural activities, the Ministry for cultural assets and activities and for tourism realizes a digital platform for the use of cultural heritage and shows, also through the participation of Cassa deposits and loans SpA as a national institution of promotion, with the possibility to involve other subjects, public and private. If the Italian language does not lie, then, the subject of the implementation of this digital platform turns out to be by law the Minister and not Cassa deposits and loans. The Minister therefore continues to evade the answer, without explaining why he abdicated from his role, entrusting to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti responsibilities for which he was responsible, and in this sense he had full freedom of action by law. In this regard, I would like to recall that I tabled a parliamentary question on 9 December 2020; it would be necessary to give an answer not to me, but to the citizens who invested 10 million public money in this operation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-303.ana.u83	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (15.57 p.m.).
