ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2371. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place and the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government and the Minister for Relations with Parliament raised the question of confidence in the adoption of amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft law. I call on the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,9000.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u5	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that is not precluded, conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the transposition of the following amendment: in Article 19, paragraph 3-b, paragraph "1100-a," the following period shall be added at the end: "Any additional burden arising from the Convention shall be borne by the resources available under existing legislation.'........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u6	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u7	Mr President, the government accepts the conditions set out in the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u8	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 118 of 24 August 2021 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u11	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the strategy for structural reforms of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as the rapporteur, Mr Collina, and the rapporteur, Mrs Modena, whom I thank for her excellent work, pointed out yesterday, the Government approved in August the decree-law that we are preparing to convert, drawn up with the wise and competent experience of the Pagni Commission. It represents, at least from the point of view of the solution of economic crises following the pandemic, a second phase of response, a second structured phase, but a second phase. The first phase had been anticipated by the liquidity decree, No 23 of 2020, which had given temporary buffer responses to the insolvency legislation, giving temporary improcability for bankruptcy proceedings or the extension of the time limits for drawing up the recovery plans and their revision in agreements or restructuring agreements, as well as that first package of very important corporate rules. I am thinking of the guarantee on the capital of creditors, the rules on depreciation and measures contained in this draft law on the corporate recapitalisation system as a result of losses that may affect the share capital or not. This draft law, therefore, has this twofold objective: on the one hand, to give timely answers to business needs in this specific post-pandemic crisis situation and, on the other hand, to be one of the big pieces of structural reforms of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The fundamental passages of the bill consist of two rather important referrals, both from the technical point of view and from the political point of view, and the introduction of two new institutions: certainly the negotiated composition of the crisis, but also the renewed institution of the simplified arrangement for the liquidation of assets to the not positive conclusion of the previous phase of negotiation. As regards referrals, the first important referral concerns the Code of Business Crisis, provided for by Legislative Decree No. 14 of 2019; a rather recent measure never entered into force and became obsolete as it had not fully transposed the principles and values of European Directive No. 1023 of 2019. This is a very important directive because it gives new instruments and new keys of reading to make restructuring, insolvency and ex-debit procedures more effective, more timely and even faster, trying to anticipate the moment of the crisis and avoid it. The objective of the legislator at this stage and at the next stage will therefore be to give notice, after having requested the postponement of one year of the transposition of the directive, of a new regulatory framework on the crisis of enterprise that replaces in full the current measure on the bankruptcy law. The other reference I would like to focus on is that of the discipline of the alert; a new instrument of 2019, become obsolete because of the pandemic, but also because of many critical issues raised in various professional fora and of doctrine regarding the intempescence of intercepting the crisis. By intervening above all with the external alert in a moment of already declared insolvency, its procedure is very bureaucratic and is based on the bodies of composition of the crisis of enterprise (OCRI), on the internal and external alarms and also on a sort of dangerous heterogeneous of the ends; that is, the will to anticipate the crisis and to avoid it, while instead it ends up being able to accelerate it, all the more in a situation like this. I therefore join with the demands of those who ask for a possible rethink of the discipline of the alert, but also rightly with those who could ask for a definitive filing. The latter could in fact be well replaced by the current instrument of the negotiated composition of the crisis; a flexible and timely instrument in intercepting the crisis, rapid in its resolution because one hundred and eighty plus one hundred and eighty days are a quick time in the company to be able to intervene even in a decisive and relatively inexpensive way. A dedicated tool designed specifically for those companies that are suffering more than others and have fewer tools to cope with the crisis. I am thinking of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and also, as the Decree-Law says well, of enterprises under threshold and of agricultural enterprises. It is a voluntary procedure because it is activated by the entrepreneur; I remember that the requirement to be registered in the Chamber of Commerce register is sufficient in order to activate this procedure. I would also remind you that this is an out-of-court procedure and, precisely for this reason, very flexible, but at the same time capable of activating and requesting the intervention of the court in the most delicate stages, asking for protective measures of the assets, the authorisation to be able to obtain prededucible financing and aid in the renegotiation of contracts (I think, for example, of the delicacy of employment contracts, but also of the continuous ones) and the transfer of a branch of the company, freeing the alienant from debts. It is therefore a very effective procedure that, from the point of view of the political message, being extrajudicial, reverses the role of the actors a little and gives considerable centrality to the role of the entrepreneur, who is entrusted with a task of self-assessment of the business situation. A role that can be flanked by that of the supervisory body; however, we know very well that for the audience of the main companies covered by the measure, few are equipped with the supervisory body. In the course of the amendment, I think that the obligation to appoint the trade union college was rightly postponed, precisely so as not to burden companies further at a time when they are already in a particularly difficult situation. A central role is played by the Chamber of Commerce, which becomes the secretariat of the procedure, but also central in the management of the platform which, having in itself the check list and the practical test, has the ability to make an initial ex ante evaluation on one of the fundamental requirements of the procedure: the reversibility of the crisis. The Chamber of Commerce also plays a central role in the composition of the committee, which must appoint the expert negotiator, the technical expert who must help the composition. We asked for the committee to be equal to give an important message. As this institution is part of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the demand that the committee that appoints experts should have the will to bring this message of equality, in our opinion, was particularly important. It has not been accepted, but there will be a way to talk about it again. The committee appoints experts and in this sense there is another political novelty: finally they come back central in the resolution of crises, in the good performance of the Italian production system professionalism and skills. A very high degree of professionalism is required: not only to be written to the albums, but also to have gained experience in the field, to have carried out very punctual specializations, with a central role of professional orders. I am very pleased about that. I see a risk on bank creditors. Often in the professional practice in civil and commercial mediations we have seen very little membership of banking institutions and also the amendments in this case suggested to the political groups by the Italian Banking Association (ABI). They made demands to come out of the legislative text, which the committee rightly did not accept, the need also for banking institutions to give timely and motivated responses to the accession or not of the negotiation. As I said, negotiations for banking institutions may not work out, and in this case... [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u12	Senator, if you wish, you can hand over the rest of your written speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u15	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the umpteenth confidence of a Government with the largest majority of Republican history and abusing this overwhelming majority in order to squeeze even more the democratic confrontation in this House by trusting in your condescension, if not in your complacency. Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, have you forgotten your protests when you were in opposition and even climbed to the roof of Parliament? You wanted to open Parliament up like a can of tuna and, instead, you entered the can instead of tuna and you closed it tightly, willing to accept anything to avoid going back to the polls, knowing that just one in four or perhaps even one in five would have the hope of being re-elected. [[Applause]] None of you colleagues from the PD and the Left dare to defend our Constitution in the face of the arrogance of a Government that has upset an exceptional instrument such as the decree-law, admitted only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, as provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, which you mentioned only when you like, transforming it in the ordinary way of lawmaking with confidence already at first reading. You have been deaf even to the high call of our President, whom I thank, leaving his appeal shamefully in the void. The vulnus to our Constitution is so obvious that it is even useless to insist. It is not Brothers of Italy, colleagues of the PD, outside the constitutional arc; it is you who have put yourselves outside the democratic rules. [[Applause]] It is you who have progressively closed every area of parliamentary confrontation, despite the always loyal and constructive attitude of the opposition. [[Applause]] Blind every measure in the Commission with ridiculous majority meetings, that is to say all less one. Majority meetings, calls; you had at least the good taste not to say it! If a PD amendment passes, then one of the League must pass, then one of the 5 Stars must pass, then one of Forza Italia and so on; in the end come to the Chamber and put your trust in your agreements. And you have the nerve to call all this democracy! You so much like to trample on the rules of democratic confrontation, that you do not scrupulously resort to trust even when there is no need for it, as in this case, since in principle we all agree on the need for the extension of this measure, because it is clear to everyone what will happen once the effects of the measures to support companies have been exhausted. However, as we know, these are very limited measures, which do not even cover 20% of the losses suffered by our companies, according to the CGIA in Mestre, with peaks of just 2.5% in the tourism, bars, gyms, etc. sectors. You have remained deaf, for example, to our request to cover at least the costs of these companies, as well as a percentage of the losses. Well, we know that, when these bland support goes down too, there will be many companies that risk not being able to remain on the market and thus guarantee business continuity. The consequences are likely to be dramatic in terms of employment and for the entire economic system, which has already been hard tried, for example, by the more than 300,000 VAT consignments that disappeared during the pandemic. The postponement is therefore necessary and appropriate. Even more necessary and appropriate is the postponement to 31 December 2023 of the new automatic compulsory alert system, the rigidity of which risks having disruptive effects especially on small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as we know, are the real wealth of the national economy. The hope, also of Brothers of Italy, is that in the meantime we will find solutions that are more flexible and adapted to the characteristics of our national production system, which - as we know - is not exactly the same as that of the great countries of the North that often impose these rules. Solutions that take as a model the new alternative path of rehabilitation introduced with this decree-law (this part is immediately preceptive); I refer to the rules on the negotiated composition of the crisis, voluntary procedure that sees the entrepreneur active and protagonist of the process of reorganization, albeit accompanied by an expert in the matter. Sure, there's some inconsistencies, dear government you're on the phone talking about the only opposition. [[Applause.]] There is some inconsistencies in this decree-law. If you had listened to us, it could have been clarified. [[Comments]] President, this gesture must be resumed: the government has sent me to that country. It's a shameful thing. You have to take it back. If he doesn't take it back, I'm interrupting my intervention. [[Comments.]] Either he picks it up or I don't talk anymore, be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u16	Senator Balboni, please resume.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u17	Balboni (FdI). No, Mr President, with all the respect I have for you, I will not be sent to that country by Undersecretary Sisto as I speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u18	Excuse me, I didn't hear the Undersecretary send anyone to that country. [[Comments]] After that, we'll clarify that. Since your speech is an important one, I would ask you to continue with what you were saying because it is useful for everyone to feel the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u19	Just because you ask me, Mr President, but what has happened is a shameful thing that has never happened in this House. [[Applause]] If you had listened to us, instead of placing your confidence arrogantly, it would have been possible to clarify who is responsible for verifying the existence of the requirement of reasonable persecubility of recovery for the appointment of the expert. Who has to make this appointment? The Secretary of the CGIA or the Commission? What guarantees are there that the five-day deadline for the appointment of an expert by a Commission that has to work free of charge will be respected? Who pays the expert's compensation in case of incapience of the assets of the management? You did not want to speak, nor did you want to consider our amendment to determine when it should be said that insolvency is not guilty of exempting administrators from liability. They were all subjects that deserved to be discussed in this House, without closing the issue with confidence. [[Applause]] What a fantasy, dear Undersecretary Sisto, that you allow me to go to that country: you gave birth to the mouse, that is the extension. You know who you remind me of? Those people who, when a car is running out of gas, postpone the revision and meanwhile also provide a mechanic at their own expense for urgent and necessary repairs. That's a fantasy. The problem is that no one cares about filling the empty tank of the car so that it can walk. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u20	Undersecretary, I think it is necessary for you to clarify why I do not consider it acceptable that there should be acts of insufferance against the propositions of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u21	Mr President, I am very pleased to do so. Senator Balboni knows how much I respect his personal respect, as well as, of course, the Group. I complained that I was on the phone just because I was talking to the Minister. So I apologize if the gesture was insuffering, but it was just to say that if I answered the phone I had a duty to respond to my Minister. That's it. [[Applause]] The call was perceived by me as inappropriate, being in the perfect fulfillment of my duty. However, if the gesture has been interpreted as an insuffering and not an unjustified perception of an unjust appeal, I would very willingly apologise to him. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u22	Colleagues, there is no debate on this issue now. It seems to me that the Undersecretary has clarified his understanding and it seems to me that the matter is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u25	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure we are about to vote on is urgent measures in the area of corporate crisis and corporate consolidation, as well as further urgent measures in the field of justice. The measure intervenes, in the current situation of general economic crisis caused by the pandemic by Covid-19, to provide companies in difficulty new tools to address and resolve situations of economic and patrimonial imbalance. These are crisis situations which, if they are not addressed immediately within a new and more flexible regulatory framework, could lead to a state of insolvency of the companies in distress. Mr President, it is in particular small and medium-sized enterprises that are most affected by the crisis caused by the pandemic, especially because of limited own resources. Small and medium-sized enterprises represent a very important part of the Italian economy: they are the companies that produce goods and services of the highest quality, made in Italy, that allow Italy to be among the largest exporting countries in the world. We cannot afford to lose the great resource represented by small and medium-sized enterprises and their ability to contribute to the economy, with innovative processes and high quality products and services. The crisis caused by the pandemic results from unexpected and exceptional situations, which require extraordinary and flexible interventions. That is why it is necessary to allow companies in a state of financial crisis, or even technical insolvency, to continue to operate, providing assistance, to help them manage and overcome the crisis and thus ensure the continuity of productive activities and safeguard jobs. The numerous interventions in support of the companies made available by the State since the first months of 2020 have made it possible to mitigate, at least in part, the difficulties created for companies by the health emergency. Today we are moving towards normality, characterized by profound changes in the socio-economic fabric. The interventions of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will allow us to emerge from this crisis with renewed commitment and capacity. We cannot afford the luxury, at this stage, to lose important pieces of the country's productive fabric. The measure that we are going to vote on introduces elements of flexibility and assistance to ensure the continuity of productive activities and provides specific interventions for the system of administration of justice. I would therefore like to mention only a few of the changes introduced by the measure. The entry into force of the Corporate Crisis and Insolvency Code is postponed, thus avoiding the risk that companies that can start again can automatically be declared insolvent. The negotiated settlement procedure of the crisis is introduced and regulated, offering entrepreneurs who request the support of a third and independent expert, to facilitate negotiations with creditors and manage and overcome the crisis; the request for assistance will be made on an absolutely voluntary basis, through a national telematic platform, managed by the chambers of commerce. A number of changes are made to the bankruptcy law, with the anticipation of some negotiating settlement instruments provided for in the Code of Crisis and Insolvency. There is an increase of 20 units of the staff of the ordinary judiciary, in order to replace the 20 magistrates who are required to play the role of European Delegated Prosecutor. Using digitised systems, measures are introduced to speed up payment procedures for fair redress in the event of a breach of the reasonable duration of the process and of other payments due on the basis of a legal instrument. In the Commission, we have done detailed work, approving significant amending proposals, including the rewriting of Article 3, which specifies that the telematic platform is managed by the Chambers of Commerce system, through Unioncamere, under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development, intervention is made on how to register on the list of experts and specific provisions are inserted on procedures for the extraordinary administration of large insolvent companies. All the work of the Commission and its interventions have never lost sight of the European context in which we are called to operate and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. During the work, the Commission agreed that we had to send out a signal to companies and I believe that a step has been taken in the right direction to assist our companies, which have been operating in a difficult economic environment because of the pandemic. We had to give a clear signal of support to companies and with this measure we are doing just that. Surely there are problems to be resolved, some of which do not require new rules to be initiated into a solution. These include the composition of the list of experts, which in addition to the financial skills, must also take into account professional skills, experience and knowledge of the areas in which the companies to be assisted operate. It is also possible to guarantee these skills through a collaboration relationship between chambers of commerce and trade associations. We must ensure that banks and financial institutions continue to help companies in crisis in this transition phase. In the future we will certainly have to assess the effects of the enterprise crisis code as, as mentioned earlier, the measure we are about to vote on today is to postpone its original date for entry into force. In the long term, however, the business crisis cannot be solved only by regulatory action. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must allow all companies that have suffered the consequences of the financial crisis over the last 18 months to overcome the financial and operational difficulties as soon as possible and to be ready to seize the opportunities offered by the imminent recovery of the economy. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan will provide great opportunities for the modernization of production systems, for a better use of resources, for the development of the whole territory of the country, in particular those historically neglected areas, for the full exploitation of many natural, tourist and human resources, which until now have not been valued. They are the ingredients of economic recovery and the strong foundations for the development of the future; recovery and development that will produce many benefits. The challenge of the future is to ensure that these benefits can be shared equally, in all areas of the country, to companies and workers, active protagonists of the productive activities, and through them to all citizens. Today we contribute to this fair distribution by providing support tools to companies that need to overcome economic and financial crisis situations due to the unexpected and unpredictable consequences of the pandemic and thus continue to be protagonists of recovery and development in the future. In conclusion, Madam President, let me say that we cannot risk losing the great experience of small, medium and large companies, which, with their innovative and avant-garde production capacities and processes, have made Italy famous and made in Italy all over the world. We cannot wait; we must act now, decisively. The Democratic Party Group looks with confidence to the economic recovery and is committed so that all our companies can continue to contribute to the growth of the economy, to guarantee secure jobs, to create new jobs, to make Italy an increasingly competitive country in the globalized world. It is also for these reasons that I am firmly in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u28	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, the measure we are considering, which is part of the horizontal reform action relating to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, is a first important and positive response, first and foremost, to small and medium-sized enterprises, which, however, represent a fundamental backbone of our production system and which are the first to have paid, in particular on the ground of the financial crisis, the damage caused by the Covid crisis. For these reasons, our vote will be in favour. Some fundamental choices have been made, such as the postponement of the entry into force of the crisis code, on which, as my colleague from the Democratic Party has already said, a reflection will have to be made in order to understand, in addition to the postponement, whether this instrument actually fully corresponds to the objective it had set itself. In any case, this postponement is certainly useful and important, just as it is important that the Commission has made an effort - I would also like to emphasise the Commission's fundamental contribution - particularly in relation to the issue of the negotiated settlement of the crisis, the national telematics platform managed by the Chambers of Commerce system through Unioncamere, the possibility that we give companies the opportunity to find ways of negotiating settlement without leading them to a failing situation. All this is positive. We had made a few comments and tabled two amendments, such as the one on the subject of the victims of usury, which concerns not only direct business activities but also indirect situations. This is a subject that is very close to our heart and which needs to be addressed. We therefore ask the Government, since these two amendments have not been accepted, to deal with them carefully and quickly, because we know how much this issue is on the agenda, especially in the face of the productive recovery. These are certainly useful and fundamental interventions, but I believe that we need to strategically address two other issues. The first relates to the relationship between credit and enterprises. We have also made a number of measures to support credit for companies in this crisis, but I think it is time to make an overall reflection on the new phase in which we are, namely recovery. There is an issue that concerns credit and European credit standards, especially for a country like ours, where 90% of businesses are small and have fewer than ten employees. These European standards are objectively conflicting with the objective set-up of the business system and I think that this is an issue that we must propose. I'm going to move on to the second point. Sorry for the insistence on the question of industrial policy in our discussions, but for me it is not fully resolved either by the PNRR approach. I see that there is still a considerable difficulty in defining what the new production system - I insist, new production system - will look like in the next twenty years. There has been talk of ecological transition and environmental issues, but what are the policies of support and transformation of this country's industrial production structure? We cannot leave large public enterprises, which should be the protagonists of this reform, to work on their own, and we cannot continue to move forward without strategies and policies as a whole. Then there is the question of work. From the latest data from the International Monetary Fund we see that in 2023 unemployment is expected to increase in our country, but we know that recovery is however marked by a dynamic very linked to intermittent or partial precarious work. The reform of shock absorbers cannot only be an instrument of assistance, but it must also be an instrument of active policies. These new shock absorbers must be included in a strategic (but strategic) pact!), linked to what the enterprise does, what the work does and what the state does, not in a single sense, so that the state solves the problems of both. I say this in relation to Confindustria's proposal for a fair pact (I have stressed the need to redefine the social pact for years), but it must be clear who does what and how, otherwise we will not be able to implement this great transformation. However, this is an important measure, which helps businesses. That is why we vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u31	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, this measure is important, if only because it takes note of the situation due to the unforeseen crisis and the consequences of the pandemic, which necessarily - as my colleague Mrs Conzatti said this morning very well - force us to review what is behind Legislative Decree No. 14 of 2019, that is the so-called code of the business crisis, conceived at a time and in a physiology different from the economic point of view. It is therefore clear that today some norms must be revised and the decree-law to our examination intervenes with Article 1, which contains essentially two referrals, to 16 May 2022 and 31 December 2023, regarding the bodies of composition of the crisis for external alert mechanisms, the most insidious ones. Clearly this is the responsibility of the so-called European insolvency directive of 2019, No 1023, which introduces mechanisms to ensure business continuity, avoiding that companies in crisis incur in the traditional solutions we know, which derive from our bankruptcy law, which has been amended several times, which are either bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. It introduces the negotiating composition of the crisis, a newly coined institution, which practically anticipates the competitive procedures and, in a sense, would like to exclude them, ensuring that companies continue to live when there is a situation of economic, financial, patrimonial imbalance, due, as we know, to the extraordinary and not very happy moment that we have lived and that we are living. We have to make some comments on this. The appointment of the expert, which is requested on a voluntary basis by the entrepreneur, who relies on a telematic platform (a sort of predictive justice), which says whether the possible negotiation can go well, is certainly an innovation from the point of view of legal instruments, but it is also a mechanism that imposes some reflection. In the same way, it is clear that we, through the negotiated procedure, do not open up to the creditors' committee and we do not dissuade the entrepreneur from the availability of his assets, that is, we do not initiate the typical procedures that take place when the crisis of the company is determined, that is, insolvency proceedings, but it is also true that, from my point of view, there are still some doubts. I am referring to the role of the experts, who very clearly explained Mr Caliendo yesterday. Is the expert the one who prolongs a crisis situation or is he the one who acknowledges that the company can no longer be in the market? If so, it is clear that we need to improve this institution and make it more stringent from the point of view of its formulation. Allow me also to have some doubts - then of course the good part of my speech, which justifies the fact that I am convinced of this measure - that it is expected that a committee of three experts, one appointed by the business court, one appointed by the prefect and one appointed by the district chamber of commerce, would be absolutely foreign and distant from the reality of the courts of every day. I would have held these functions at the level of the individual court, at the district level: every court has a bankruptcy section, has specific knowledge of these problems, has professionals who are perfectly able to know the reality. [[Applause]] We entrust ourselves therefore to these experts, that within one hundred and eighty days they must arrive to a proposal of filing or to a contract with one or more creditors or to a plan of return, pursuant to article 67, third paragraph, letter d) of the bankruptcy law, without homologation, or to an agreement of restructure, even to the new hypothesis of a sort of cessation Bonorum, that is a simplified procedure of agreement of the entrepreneur, through which however the judicial aspect must be guaranteed, because there is a prognostic judgment on the admissibility that however follows to the approval made from the court and to the notification. That ultraliberal aspect that had been contested, I think, fails, because conditional control exists and there is in any case. There is an issue, which Senator Balboni reminded us this morning, which is the one of the so-called blameless insolvency, which exists in our legal system - he is right - that in the Commission we clearly decided, given the nature of the decree, to file it, but I would ask the Government to take it into account. We know that the judiciary is based on the principle of practicability: if you fail, you are not able to stand on the market, that is the fact. It is also true, however, that the situation of economic difficulty can be derived from force majeure and how can what we have experienced in this period not be a force majeure? I say this because obviously the theme exists and cannot be limited to doctrinal assessments. I would also like to draw the attention, as far as I can from this House, to the case law. Leibniz said - I have already mentioned this - that we live in the best possible worlds; Voltaire, by the mouth of the tutor Pangloss, said that it is true that we live in the best of the worlds possible, but he also said - he remembered a illustrious constitutionalist in these days - that in order to make good laws we must burn those existing ones. Well, I believe that this Government, which - I repeat - at this stage is the best of the governments possible (and we will probably find out if it is also the Government of the best), has produced some very important things. As regards the delegation for the reform of the civil process, as a lawyer I have concerns about contextuality, in the context of the first hearing of thema decisionandum and thema probandum. It is difficult to imagine that in a single hearing there is a full discovery of the parties, but it is also true that this imposes (and it is a merit of this Government) on the forensic class and the judicial authority to take a step forward towards the modernization of this country. [[Applause]] It is true that in the law of delegation for the reform of the civil trial we have foreseen the family court and we have unified the rites; not to mention the criminal trial, where we have finally removed the obbuse of the final trial never. These are important passages, just as important is the most penetrating control that the judge of preliminary investigations can do to the prosecutor. [[Call the president back. Applause]] I know you're kindly calling me back, President, and I'm going to conclude. I have a request to make very quietly to the Government and I thank Secretary Sisto, who is here. There is a problem that weighs like a boulder in our country: 1,000 cases a year of unjust detention, 24 million euros. It is 800 billion, indeed - I was wrong - 800 million in thirty years, an exorbitant figure, as exorbitant is the abuse of preventive imprisonment and the compression of the principle of not guilty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u34	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representative of the Government, in preparing the cloth I want to follow for this explanation of vote, I wanted to stick to two strands of arguments. I would like to make a technical analysis and a political analysis. From a technical point of view, in fact, the debate that has taken place, especially in the Commission, has been deepened. We have examined many issues, some of which are not directly related to this decree-law, but I believe that there has been a good dialogue and a close discussion. For this I would like to thank, in a not only formal way, the Undersecretary Sisto and the Undersecretary Bini, for there has been that willingness to confront and to dialogue that has been lacking in other governmental experiences. In particular, with the Undersecretary Sisto we have deepened the issues contained within this decree, the matter of justice and everything that concerns the regulation of the crisis of enterprise, which is part of the strand of the reform bankruptcy (no longer called bankruptcy); I refer to the rules that regulate the procedures that assist the so-called crisis of enterprise, from which the decree-law to our examination takes its name. We have also dealt with other important issues, but we need to look into them further: I am referring in particular to the unblamed insolvency. Those who have done the provincial lawyer, like myself, know very well what it means to be faced with small entrepreneurs who find themselves having to stand trial, perhaps even criminal, simply because they preferred to pay their employees rather than pay the gabelle imposed by what is still an oppressive state. I believe that these are subjects to be examined further: we touched them during the debate in the Commission, but we did not define them. I therefore urge government action precisely to try to carry out this type of analysis. I believe that the analysis of the business crisis is really a fundamental point for the reform of this country, because we know very well that the pandemic has not only brought serious damage to our businesses, to small and medium-sized enterprises, which - it is now customary to repeat - are the pregnant basis of our economic fabric. We need to get more specific and technical in order to try to deal with this kind of crisis. The decree-law before us deals with the subject with specific rules and postpones the entry into force of the reform of the business crisis. Then there are other rules that need to be further developed. That is why I believe that the content of the measure is crucial, because with it we are going to introduce, for example, the negotiated composition for the solution of the business crisis and to define how this procedure is to be carried out. There are certain important elements. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I would also like to stress political issues, because, apart from the technical content that - I repeat - our Group supports today, announcing the vote in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government, we must nevertheless stress a fundamental political issue: giving confidence does not mean that everything that comes from the Government is linear and therefore must be approved. As we have seen during the debate, in fact, certain issues need to be examined and dealt with. Therefore, as our federal secretary, Senator Salvini, has repeatedly said, we believe in the experience of government, but when there is to raise your hand and say that something is wrong or could be done better, we must say so. [[Applause]] If there are things that can be improved, we have to improve and we are here to remind the government. I, for example, did not share the haste with which the Commission has called for meetings and for the analysis of certain subjects, which need to be examined in technical and political terms, and I believe that this would have required more attention and more emphasis. However, we have managed to do what I think is a good job, even if we run as we were asked to do, and I repeat that I believe in it. From a political point of view, precisely because sometimes the haste is bad counselor, we must remember that Parliament remains and must remain sovereign, so it cannot be stripped or counted anymore, as someone is supporting in a very utilitarian way from the opposition's point of view. It is we MEPs who have to make it pay more; therefore, by putting aside past experiences or future ideas for which Parliament has nothing to do with it, we are really trying to dialogue with the Government. However, this dialogue must also take place with the individual ministries, who must not simply give us opinions which, in fact, in many cases are children of simple bureaucracy, because we, among the fundamental points of the PNRR, but also of the action of government in general, have always included simplification, which is what our people ask: our citizens ask us for the simplification of bureaucracy. We also begin by discussing with the various ministries when we ask for opinions on individual amendments: we begin to demand this kind of transparency and simplification. I quote, for example, Senator Borghesi's amendment concerning the list of experts in chambers of commerce: we all agreed, but we could not approve it simply because there was an opinion against it. In my opinion, parliamentary experience must lead us to say that perhaps if certain things are wrong, they are totally wrong, so perhaps we should also remind the offices of the Ministries. [[Applause]] All this always in the logic for which we try to direct and support the action of government, whatever anyone else says. Indeed, if politics does not direct it and govern it on the basis of the concrete and strategic needs of citizens and society, then we do not fulfil our task. They therefore urge the Government even more in this direction. I am sure that the Undersecretary will be a messenger of this understanding and I would also like to make an invitation to all of us parliamentarians and all political forces, because in the discussion of the decree-law in title, but in reality also of others - forgive me a personal outburst - I have tired of continuing to hear always and only about green passes, even in measures in which it has absolutely nothing to do with it. We are dealing with vaccines and green passes, but in this case we are talking about something different, about a business crisis. The enterprise is the life of our citizens, because if you do not work you do not live. I therefore appeal to all political forces, from the bottom of my political conscience: let us stop making unnecessary polemics about subjects that have absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] Let's talk about concrete things; let's talk about what people want to hear: solving problems, being able to work, being able to go shopping, being able to live quietly in their own home. We have not yet realized what political and psychological drama we are facing! I apologize if I have warmed up, but I really believe that political action, which also passes through this decree and which we must continue, must be diligent and truly based on the reality of life. If we continue to speak always and only of opinions, if we continue to speak always only of rules that are detached from reality, we have not performed our civic and moral duty to fulfil the parliamentary function. We have a warrant and we have to discharge that warrant. That is precisely why the League Group continues and supports the Government and will vote in favour of confidence in the measure at our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u37	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at this historic moment, while we are trying forcefully to come out of the health emergency, we are called upon to support companies in order to prevent them from being overwhelmed by an unprecedented economic crisis. The aid and support measures already designed and implemented by the Count Government in the first months of the pandemic have allowed companies to resist until today and to survive the closures and the decline in consumption. Unfortunately, it is undeniable that the economic crisis could go far beyond the health crisis and it is necessary to take action to ensure that our legal system is up to date. The bankruptcy law of 1942, as often amended, retains an inadequate system to contemporary reality. It is necessary to abandon the punitive approach of bankruptcy and to focus, instead, on tools for crisis prevention or restructuring and rehabilitation, so as to ensure the survival of the company in difficulty, as well as to satisfy the creditors. The enterprise crisis code moves in this direction. However, the novelties and new mechanisms provided for therein would not allow the necessary graduality required by the economic situation, caused precisely by the pandemic, and would therefore require the creation of applicative uncertainties. For this reason, it was decided to extend its entry into force further. A very large number of business crisis cases would thus have been regulated by a completely new regulatory framework. The aim of the work is, in any case, to prevent Italy from entering the infringement procedure by the European Union for failing to transpose Directive 1023 of 2019. The Italian small and medium-sized enterprise is a large part of the economy of our country, especially in terms of excellence, and needs procedures that guarantee technical support, to avoid the risk of a crisis and to resolve it, where it started, in a short time. In this respect, I would like to mention the negotiated composition of the measures envisaged by the Code. The procedure on a voluntary basis is inspired by the survival of companies through dialogue between the parties, i.e. entrepreneur and creditors, according to principles of fairness, good faith and confidentiality, with the guidance of an expert who accompanies the entrepreneur in the procedure, but does not replace it. In order to be able to access the negotiated composition, the company must meet two requirements: firstly, an economic, capital and financial imbalance that makes the crisis or insolvency likely; secondly, the prospect of a reasonably viable recovery. The entrepreneur, via the website of the Chamber of Commerce at which he is registered, can access the single national platform at any time and submit a request for negotiated composition. Following the request will be entrusted to the procedure an independent expert with proven professionalism who will try to mediate and reach an agreement between the parties. The procedure has time limits from the appointment of the expert to the conclusion of the agreement and thus allows to try to find a solution quickly and with the guarantee of maximum confidentiality even if the agreement is not concluded. The entrepreneur will also be able to carry out a practical self-assessment test through the single national platform to have a preliminary diagnosis of the company's state of health through the inclusion of accounting data. Those just described are some of the tools provided by the crisis code that help entrepreneurs understand the risk of insolvency and find a solution to face economic difficulties. The 5 Star Movimento has always put companies at the heart of its policies. We believe that it is important to protect our economic fabric made up of different business realities that require appropriate measures to descend on concrete situations in order to survive and thus try to grow. The decree-law that we are about to convert contains within it forecasts that fit into this furrow. Finally, as Head of the 5 Star Movement, in the Justice Commission, I wanted to stress that the focus on the justice sector remains high even after the reforms have been approved. In fact, even in the measure we are debating there has been an increase of about 500 new magistrates; a measure that I am convinced can have positive effects on the whole judicial system that has long suffered serious shortages of staff to which we are finally remedying. Every step is a step forward; our mission is to improve the country in which we live and the lives of Italian citizens. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u39	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u40	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, in the last parliamentary term we have committed ourselves to an important political action to confirm bicameralism and the Italian people have expressed themselves very clearly on this point. Yet today, as one colleague said this morning, we are faced with imperfect mono-cameralism; Parliament is always and continuously humiliated. We disown the beautiful, but absolutely useless speech of inauguration of President Figo to the House at the beginning of the legislature. You will tell us that this is because we are in a pandemic crisis, but not everything can be justified by this. We are dealing with the reforms envisaged by the PNRR, but the Aules are not participating, just the Commissions and only on certain occasions. This is a constitutional reform in fact that has not followed any process of approval. All this is of undisputed gravity also because today's question of trust, like all the others, is absolutely useless and superfluous, given the absolute political majority that supports the technical government. I wonder, then, what might be the purpose of not wanting to bring the debate to this House, with a government which, however, falls on its feet because it does not have three or four legs, but is a millipede. I think it is a contempt for the democratic and participatory process and for representation. This humiliates us because it puts us in a position to always disagree with the vote of confidence, even when it comes to technical, but nevertheless political measures, as one Member on the other side of this House has well said. They were technical measures discussed in the Commission, but with political value, which we could have and wanted to participate in, and which, although lacking in many of the things listed by my colleague from Leu, might have also deserved a vote in favour of the opposition, but you deny us, because you deny us our function of representation in this House and humiliate us every day. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u42	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u43	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only repeat what Senator Nugnes has already pointed out very clearly and comprehensively. The measure is important and urgent, because the economic and pandemic crisis has made us understand how important it is to support companies, workers and the ecological transition to a new world, which we do not yet know. Like many colleagues, we too, from this very small opposition, are questioning each other and each of us is trying to make a contribution to understanding how we can safeguard the new work and the different ways of working that will come with state support and active policies. The measure has been managed in the Commission, where it has been transformed and improved in a full-bodied way. It could also have been voted by the opposition, but since yet another question of trust has been put, we are forced to vote against it, because we want to remain in the opposition and be a thorn in our side and a watchdog for the citizens too, because the minority is really small and does not give it the opportunity to do its parliamentary work. The government has fully policed Parliament: that was what we thought would happen and what we see day by day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u45	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u46	Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, I hear about the revival of businesses, but I would not like to start thinking in terms of children and stepchildren here, because on 15 October the real country will crash as a result of a document relating to bureaucracy and not to health protection. I am talking about children and stepchildren because yesterday the Ministry of the Interior said it was available, in the face of the sacred protests of the porters, to determine free swabs and their response was of the type: don't even think about buying us, because this is not how we intend to advance our negotiations and our demands. The previous one, however, is: the Government that does not want to open to the gratuitousness of the tampons nor to touch the green pass is said to be available to make tampons for free, where there are not only a strong social tension, but also critical in the harbour within, that it could have a negative relapse in economic terms. Let's be careful, because from October 15 it could go into suffering, if not even crashing, the computer system of the Ministry, against a very important avalanche of questions aimed at obtaining the code of the green pass. It could therefore happen that the workers are ready to support the swab - perhaps after having also booked hard at the pharmacy - but the terminals of the Ministry are not able to process the application. What do we do? What happens to the worker ready to give his/her own work performance, because he/she has done the swab or is close to doing so, having found a slot in the pharmacy, if the computer system of the Ministry were to impale? We would also have a problem in terms of employment, because the worker would not only be unable to work, but could even be sanctioned. I am also putting this issue to the attention of the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u47	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u48	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 118 of 24 August 2021 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Guidolin is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Guidolin. BINETTI, secretary, make the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 118 of 24 August 2021 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 244 Majority 122 Favorable 207 Contrars 36 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B) All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 118 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2405, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u50	Mr President, I turn to the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u51	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, we shall proceed directly to the examination of the amendments. (at 11:37 a.m.) I communicate that the Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the contact person, declares that amendment 1.1., in accordance with Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, is improbable because of the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u52	Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of all the amendments, but certainly not because we do not think they are appropriate. I just wanted to keep amendment 1.1 and turn it into an agenda. At this point, however, since it has been declared inadmissible, I can only confirm the withdrawal of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u56	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with this explanation of vote to make a judgment on the decree-law that the House is about to convert today, No 117 of 17 August 2021. It is a merely operational, technical decree, which has had and still has the objective of enabling the elections to be held under the best security conditions for citizens and for the operators of seats. This was the objective with which the Government approved the decree, which was converted into law in the House on October 5, two days after the elections, and which today we proceed to convert. It is quite clear that this is a measure that regulates something that has already happened - I am referring to the first round of the elections, where 12 million voters have been called to vote - and in fact also the ballots that will characterize the next weekend in our country. The technical aspect of the measure, which took into account the exceptional nature of the elections and, therefore, the possibility of the establishment of special seats in the hospital departments, and to extend the case of the home vote for those who have been quarantined, the trust isolation or the home treatment of the Covid, should be highlighted, while allocating the necessary amounts to ensure the country's funds to the electoral sections for the sanitisation and the conduct of the electoral round in the best possible conditions. I believe that Article 5 of the measure concerning the vote of Italians abroad concerning the renewal of the Committees of Italians abroad (Comites), for which a reduction of the signatures necessary for the presentation of the lists with the elimination of the lists was planned for renewal, encouraging the possibility of participation in the electoral competition, especially for the passive electorate. I do not think there is much more to be said. It is a technical measure that we approve at a stage following the completion of the electoral round and, therefore, it is in fact something that has already completed its regulatory content. However, I believe that at times like these it is clear that the urgent decree of the Government is something that is now definitively characterizing the legislature and Parliament, in such contexts, must adapt to important, but inevitable, decrees, precisely because they allow citizens to carry out fundamental rights as, in this case, the right to participate in the elections. I therefore repeat my Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u59	VALENT (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are converting to law today was dictated by the urgency and the need to allow the elections to take place again this year - let us think about the ballot - in conditions of security for the citizens and for our voters. We are talking about 12 million Italians who have been called to exercise their right to vote. I frankly understand the discomfort expressed today also because we convert a decree-law to half-made things, when it basically deployed much of the effects with the electoral round at the beginning of October. I understand that, but the central fact - in our opinion - remains another: once again the behaviour of the Government on this ground has been correct and impeccable. And above all, a sacred moment for democracy, such as that of voting, has been fully respected; an administrative vote that has really involved millions of citizens. And it has been done in the only way possible to date, as is clear: making the vote compatible once again with the necessary precautions required by a virus that unfortunately continues to circulate and hit, still causing very bad. Once again it is worth remembering that in doing so the Government has fully moved within the limits of what the law lays down, that on the electoral matter allows the decree-law an intervention of outline without ever touching the heart, that is, the electoral formula and, therefore, the mechanism that translates the votes into seats. To those who once again denounce the emptying of the Parliament that would have taken place during the pandemic, we can only remind them that Parliament, even under difficult conditions, has successfully tried to parliamentarians first the adoption of the decrees of the President of the Council with previous acts of direction and then pushing for the main instrument to be the decree-law. The result is that today most of the measures are taken by decree-law and can therefore be amended. This serves to say that the image of an unarmed and completely passive Parliament before the government goes on is a reconstruction that we find frankly imaginative. Above all, this delegitimized image of Parliament, emptying this institution of the faculty which, however, naturally, despite a thousand difficulties, has always exercised throughout the pandemic emergency. I would like to mention another element on the substance of the measure. It is not true that this conversion is a useless act - as someone has said - because among the articles of the decree it is previewed the introduction of devices on the organizations that represent the Italians abroad, norms perhaps little remembered but not for this of minor importance, since they are designed to stimulate exactly the participation of our fellow countrymen resident abroad precisely in the important electoral appointment. [[Applause]] Also for this reason I personally have some doubts in seeing among the effects of the decree the high amount of attention recorded to the municipalities - as well as some colleagues to the House has proposed - unless of course believe that the disaffection derives from the fact that this time it was the elector and not the scrutator who put the card in the urn. If in our country there is a problem of participation in the vote, I do not believe that this can be written a measure that, on the contrary, has allowed to exercise fully once again and rightly this right. Nor do I believe that an issue like this, which calls into question all political forces and their ability to involve citizens in the democratic expression of their will, can be used in an instrumental way to attack opponents once again. I shall conclude by saying that those who think from within the parliamentary institutions to stir up anger and social distress, to provoke a delegitimation of the institutions to which we belong to earn one or two points in the polls do not realize that this is a damage to the whole country, to the principals of democratic coexistence through which we are called to represent the will of the country. He does not realize that he himself is basically removing the earth under the feet of each one of us. Finally, I would like to say that we must be careful. Let's stop before it's too late because last Saturday's attacks on the national CGIL, and not only in many ways really incredible, show that we are really at a limit that we can't cross. Mr President, for these reasons the Democratic Party will vote with conviction in favour of a measure that has shown itself - as is obvious - as well as right, absolutely necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u62	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, today we come to convert into this House a decree that has now been passed in practice. The decree-law has already explained its effects in the last local elections on 3 and 4 October. It contains sacring norms of common sense, of protection of safety and health in the conduct of voting operations; rules that had been included in the decree that postponed the elections of 2020, which in turn had been the subject of a proposal of the Brothers of Italy, the opposition and the majority groups also in the decree that this year determined the postponement of the elections. In fact, a decree-law was issued close to the date set for the elections, and Parliament was summoned with the tired practice of conversion even on the day following the scrutiny for the conversion of the decree itself. It was a joke, a treatment I do not agree with Parliament; it is not appropriate because those rules of the game inserted could be written together. And the amendments, which were tabled at the time for the safety and health of citizens, and which are part of the decree today, could be incorporated because there was nothing political and ideological, but it was simply a copy of what had been done the previous year, namely common sense rules. I make two considerations in announcing the abstention vote of Brothers of Italy. In particular, I refer to Article 1, where two different forms of security are regulated; two different rules for the safety of voters and members of the electoral offices and, therefore, of reviewers. For the supplementary elections, where the Secretary of the Democratic Party has been elected, the ordinary voting rules are implemented, while the exception rules apply for all the other common mortal candidates and for all the citizens who have voted simply to democratically renew the municipal administrations and the Calabria Region. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Occhiuto, who was elected President also thanks to the important contribution of the Brothers of Italy. [[Applause]] Another point, Mr President, is that the general elections cannot be held, except those that serve to give a seat to the Secretary of the Democratic Party. [[Applause]] In fact, the rule and leitmotiv are always the same: where it suits the Democratic Party, there are exceptions; where it suits ordinary mortals, even the strictest rules apply. A further consideration concerns the significant figure of the local elections, i.e. the level of abstention. Let us look at the supplementary figures: what I said just now is exactly the same story. The citizens have them, indeed you have tired them so much that you do not consider it necessary to vote. The figure is significant and worrying, but it is the result of the humiliation of democracy, because we vote for a party that says to do one thing and then goes to Parliament and does another; we vote for a coalition that says that it will go to the government with some allies and then we find ourselves doing governments with whatever, in order to remain attached to the chair, once because there is the economic emergency, once for the emergency Covid, another time for the emergency to save the chair, but the outcome is always the same. In the end, this means humiliating democracy, and we continue to do so. You can vote to renew the college of Siena, where the secretary of the Democratic Party was a candidate, but you can't vote for the rest of the parliamentary colleges, because woe if the center-right wins the elections. Now the rule that is imposed is that whoever wins the elections always rules the Democratic Party. And here is the continuing humiliation of democracy - I believe that this is the issue that should be dealt with, beyond the common sense rules that I was talking about, to protect the safety and health of those who vote and of those who make up the seats - then leads to the victory of abstentionism, which is exactly and plastically the defeat of democracy, the defeat of Parliament, the defeat to which you led with yet another government not elected by anyone, so many citizens are thinking that perhaps it is useless to go and vote. Perhaps a deep reflection should be made on this. Maybe this is something subversive. But we will continue our battle of freedom, asking once again that any Government (municipal, provincial, regional or national) be exactly chosen by the holder of democratic power, that is, by the people: you will never make us change our mind about this. [[Applause]] Finally, Mr President, you will realize that the palace games will end one day, because the Italians will awaken the desire for freedom and democracy, who will wipe out all this once and for all, because they are tired of rules that change to the necessity of those who rule the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u65	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, this decree-law is a technical measure - we have already heard it - and we shall vote in favour of its conversion. These are important technical standards for making the vote in this year's elections operational and secure. In essence, it is intended to ensure, limited to the electoral consultations of the current year, the full exercise of the right to vote of all citizens, through operational procedures that ensure, by identifying appropriate precautionary measures, the further prevention from the risks of contagion and the full guarantee of the conduct of the electoral procedure and the collection of the vote. It is also expected for voters who are positive at the Covid-19 located in a hospital or home quarantine and for all those who are in trust isolation explicit operating and security arrangements that allow them to take active part in the consultations. The provision is justified in the text by the need to avoid infection by Covid-19. The same provision had been dictated by Decree-Law No 103 of 14 August 2020, Article 1, limited to the electoral and referendum consultations of the year 2020, also due to the epidemiological situation. The exceptional discipline dictated by this decree-law is applicable to electoral consultations involving a total of more than 15 million voters. With regard, in particular, to administrative consultations, a total of 1,363 municipalities of Regions with ordinary statutes and special statutes were voted. Among the municipalities in question are 25 municipalities dissolved for mafia and the Municipality of Lamezia Terme, in which the elections in some sections will have to be renewed following the cancellation of the same judicially. In essence, it is established that the voter personally inserts the ballot box in the urn and the establishment of specific electoral sections in the hospital health facilities that host Covid-19 departments, or special seats in municipalities without hospital sections. It also regulates the home voting exercise for voters subject to home treatment or under quarantine or trust isolation conditions for Covid-19. The measure also establishes, in the forecast of the Ministry of Interior, a fund for sanitization of the local seats of the electoral polling for the year 2021. Finally, the electoral legislation of the Committees of Italians abroad (Comites) is regulated, providing for the application until 31 December 2021 of specific forecasts on subscriptions for the presentation of lists. What we are about to approve is therefore an indispensable measure to fully guarantee the right to vote in a phase of coexistence with the Covid-19, such as the current one. It is therefore inevitable that the senators and senators of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal components of the Mixed Group will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u68	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the conversion into law of a decree-law made necessary in order to make possible the legitimate exercise of the expression of the vote at the time of the local elections of 2021. I would like to think that the practice of the decree-law is the result of the need to put urgent remedies to an epidemiological situation that has seen us fight for more than a year and a half, rather than the attempt to circumvent Parliament's prerogatives, such as the exercise of intervention in the legislative process. We therefore share the content of the decree-law in question because it was necessary to ensure that, even in the presence of a pandemic fought, but not completely eradicated, the citizen had the possibility, in complete safety, to exercise his right-duty to express a political preference. Nevertheless, we must consider that there has never been a very high percentage of non-voting in this administrative electoral round, which is 54.7%. I want to make a reflection, because disaffection to the vote, rather than being the consequence of a legislative activity that someone has called asphyxiating and/or useless, is a wake-up call that politics must be able to read. Non-voting is a protest against politics, the whole of politics, because obviously we are not able to give a signal that, even in the differentiation of positions, it makes voters and citizens understand that each party and each group operate in the collective interest. I therefore want to clarify, for the umpteenth time, why it is not inappropriate - since, unlike what is believed, our debates are followed by citizens, also thanks to the free broadcasters - that this is not a political majority, but an institutional majority, of responsibility towards the country. It is clear that this represented a sacrifice on the part of the parties, including Forza Italia, who decided to support this Government. But this time we decided to make the interests of Italians prevail, rather than the interests of the shop and the results are right. [[Applause]] If the vaccination campaign has exceeded 80%, this is due to the sense of responsibility of those parties that have decided to set aside their personal interests, in order to promote public interests. [[Applause]] If the projections of international institutions indicate an increase in Italian GDP by 6%, it means that the sacrifice has served to restart the economy and the country. [[Applause]] There will always be time to vote and to put together the political frameworks. It is right that our party believes that it belongs fully to the centre-right, with which we want to present ourselves at the next elections. However, this is an emerging period in which the sense of responsibility must prevail and that is what we have done. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not begin to respect ourselves and make sense of our work and function, then it will not be for the citizens to do so in our place. If you continue to caress the belly of the legitimate discomfort of the Italians, rather than explain why and why certain measures are taken, surely 54 percent will be added to the above-mentioned percentages of turnout at the even lower ballot boxes. Today we can say that we have done everything politically allowed to remove all alibi from the voter. We have established security conditions so that everyone can vote. And we created the conditions so that those who did not have the opportunity to move, or to go to a hospital garrison could express their vote. It was therefore clear that, at a moment of urgency and urgency, the measure was to be adopted in the form of a decree-law. However, I now believe that politics must make a serious examination of conscience and an act of reflection, because first of all we must be convinced that what we do and the sacrifices we face, even from a cultural and political point of view, have a higher reason. If this were to be achieved by Parliament as a whole without the institutional assemblies being given the opportunity to express their dissent, we would probably have done our part. Otherwise those waiting for us will not be brilliant periods from the point of view of public order and security, since however the health issue is quite under control and also the economic one - as we have said - is bearing important fruit. Mr President, for all these reasons I strongly announce the vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law in question by Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u71	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the vote we are about to take is little more than a due act of a technical measure, as has already been well explained by many of my previous colleagues, who, beyond the article on the Comites rightly referred to by my colleague Valente, deal with the way in which the seats of this autumn election round operate. An electoral round that has already largely developed during the weekend of 3 October, so the decree-law has already seen application having carried out its operation within the seats on the occasion of the vote. There is still a residual use for the round of ballots, so it would make absolutely little sense, indeed it would be wrong for Parliament to change the rules of the game during the game. It makes no sense, therefore, that the first round took place according to the decree-law and the second - assuming there is time for publication in the Official Journal - with amended rules for the round of ballots. That is why we believe that the measure should be voted on as it is for our attention. Attention that I ask the Ministry of the Interior, and I am sorry not to see Minister Lamorgese here; we did not expect so much, but at least the Undersecretary who deals with electoral issues. I am sorry that the Government is represented only by one member of another Dicastery, who is not even paying attention to what I am saying. But I can wait. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary, please. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you for your attention, Undersecretary. I was telling you that I would have preferred to speak with Minister Lamorgese or with a Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior dedicated to the electoral match; I do so with you as the sole representative of the Government in this House so that there is maximum attention and maximum information in the round of balloting regarding the green pass issue. There's a lot of confusion. We know that from 15 October the places where the green pass is required for access will be increased; there is confusion about how to use it not so much for voters - because the right to vote is sacrosanct and guaranteed - but for the operation. We are talking about the staff of the seats, of the Forces of Order: there are several aspects that must be clarified by Saturday and Sunday, when the seats will settle. The request I make to the government is to give the utmost information because this allows to carry out the electoral round of ballots in full transparency and democracy. The risk we run, in fact, is to have an additional element that will affect the turnout at the vote that, beyond the downhill historical trend, has been particularly low in the first round and risks being even lower in the round of the ballot. This will obviously result from an objective delegitimization of the elected because it is true that those elected with 30% of electoral turnout are elected in full title, but clearly the consensus given by the majority of voters is much more than much lower percentages. As far as the turnout is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to something that we have dealt with in a similar measure last spring. I am referring to the electoral decree-law of a few months ago. In Parliament we have included a rule, always linked to the transitory nature and the emerging state of the Covid, to reduce the quorum when there is a single list, lowering it from 50% to 40% and excluding the AIRE voters not from the right to vote, but from the calculation of the quorum for the turnout, because of the increased difficulties of movement and transport between countries even distant. Well, we have experienced the effectiveness of this rule and I must tell you that, in the thousands of municipalities that went to the vote, 62 have had the mayor's election thanks to this rule; we are talking about 62 municipalities that would be commissioners without our intervention today. [[Applause]] Beyond the paternity of the proposal, which we leave in the background, the praise goes to the entire Parliament because it has grasped the problem putting in place a practical solution that, as I have just said, has allowed sixty-two municipalities to be administered by the mayor that the voters have chosen and not by a prefectial commissioner, who responds to many other logics. In conclusion, I would just like to remind you that the same rule, along with the rule on the Farccan lists, those presented by people outside the communities, has unfortunately been in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time. Clearly, the rule we made for the Covid emergency was temporary and has ceased to be in force; in order to make those structural arrangements and ensure that even in the upcoming electoral rounds they become definitive, the Senate did its part by approving the bill in spring, but unfortunately in the House of Deputies, although it assigned the House Act 3144, has not yet been scheduled. Therefore, my appeal, which I address to all my colleagues and to all the groups, but in particular to those who have shared the spirit of the norm, my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, is to raise awareness of their colleague, Mr Brescia, so that we can decide to schedule this rule in order to approve it definitively. Mr President, I would like to end by repeating, for the reasons I have expressed, the support of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u74	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, the measure we are about to adopt has had the merit of allowing a total audience of 12 million citizens, who have been called to the polls in recent days, to exercise the right to vote in full safety. Moreover, the effectiveness of the rules contained therein has not yet been exhausted, since there are still many municipalities that will go to the ballots on Sunday 17 and Monday 18 October, and Sunday 24 and Monday 25 October in the islands and in Trentino-Alto Adige. Voting is a right, but, in accordance with Article 48 of the Constitution, it is also a civic duty. Those who abstain delegate the choice to others, therefore lose in departure; not only, it makes more important the vote of those who go to the seats. But that is precisely what I would like the policy to be all concerned about: abstention is a strong cry of alarm from millions of citizens who in many territories, from North to South, have not felt adequately represented. Abstentionism to the maximum historical - almost 50% in fact - is not a defeat of democracy, but it is a defeat of politics. Instead, as often happens, we have witnessed the usual forced statements, sometimes even grotesque, and the vortex of the agencies' reels with the usual goal of taking credit for some victories, of downloading the responsibilities for some electoral tonfi and, above all, of attacking the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] Yes, because that seems to be the objective of some political parties and politicians. It doesn't matter if abstentionism is at the top of history; it doesn't matter if the symbols of the parties in the local elections have disappeared; it doesn't matter if citizens prefer to vote on civic lists. None of this. What matters is hastening to comment on the election result of the Movimento 5 Stars. In this regard, President Calderoli, allow me to be amazed and legitimately annoyed by the constant and continuous statements of Senator Renzi, who, despite the many and prestigious positions around the world and the commitment here in Parliament (when there is), always finds time to comment on the dynamics within the Movimento, providing seamlessly material printing to newspapers and agencies. I would like to remind him that he has failed to promise to abandon politics if he had lost the referendum; he should look at his house and stop it with his pleasure, which increases disrespect for him, as I had the opportunity to tell him personally in four eyes. [[Applause]] Certainly the electoral data achieved, together with the dramatic result of abstentionism, will have to push us to reflect. We have never shunned the responsibility of millions of voters who invested us in 2018. We knew that the commitment of government would take away our approval. Do you think it would not have been easier to stand in opposition, especially during one of the most difficult moments in recent history of our country? The result of these local elections is unsatisfactory, but it must not be seen outside the current context. In fact, I think it is completely misleading to decontextualize the electoral result, pickling capziamente that the Movimento is going through a phase of profound internal change, thanks to the new course inaugurated - think - only two months ago by Giuseppe Conte, that will finally allow us to have a recognized and legitimate organization, especially in the territories. [[Applause]] It's only been two months, and in the middle of the summer, and the election round is on its way. Here too we are profoundly different: commenting on the electoral results of others has never enthused us and does not interest us; we prefer to focus on the daily work, inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms and institutions. We want to understand the reasons for the disaffection of voters and convince them that returning to the polls is always the best choice, that it is not possible to delegate the democratic exercise of voting to others. The desire to see the 5 Star Movimento disappear is evident. We've been given to death so many times. Undervalue us, but then you will be disappointed. [[Applause]] This is what all other parties should also be concerned about. But perhaps for some it is too much to ask. With regard to the issues that are exclusively inherent in the text of the decree-law that we are about to convert, the electoral ones, we must act in two directions: simplification and digitisation. Within the last Decree-Law simplifications, thanks to the full transposition of my bill (Act 2129 Senate), we began to innovate those legal provisions that regulated the pre-election obligations, some of which even date back over sixty years ago. We have, therefore, simplified and digitized the procedure for the filing of electoral marks, the procedure for the nominations of list representatives, the authentication of electoral signatures and referendums. It was a first step, but other indefectible steps have to be taken on this issue, not only in terms of voting time, but also at a distance for outsiders, but also with regard to the preliminary activities following the expression of the vote, such as those of the ballot. I conclude with a positive note by Gil Stern, who said that both optimistic and pessimistic contribute to our society: the optimist invents the plane and the pessimist the parachute. Let us hope that during the electoral rounds people will still vote, by whatever means. Announcement of the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars on the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u75	I remind everyone that, until the quaestor senators revoke, the obligation of the distance meter remains. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u76	The next item is the debate on draft law 2060. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has asked for the report to be supplemented. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u77	Mr President, I turn to the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u78	The Presidency takes note of this. The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene and there are no members to speak in general discussion. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u79	I am in favour of the adoption of all agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u80	The government accepts the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u81	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G20.1, G20.2 and G20.3 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u84	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would ask for permission to submit the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u87	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, I am voting in favour of the provision, implementing Article 8 of the Constitution, which protects religious freedom. The three agendas we have presented, on which a favourable opinion has been expressed and which have therefore been accepted by the Government, call for real implementation of all this agreement and also of the others. The reality of the Church of England is a solid reality, which has been going on for centuries; at the head of the Church of England there is for one verse the archbishop of Canterbury, for another the sovereign of England, who today and for a very long time has been Queen Elizabeth. In article 20, paragraph 2, of the bill at our examination is written: "On the occasion of the presentation of draft laws relating to matters involving the relations of the Church of England with the State, the appropriate arrangements shall be promoted in advance, in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution." Well, articles identical to this are in others in other agreements. On the occasion of the first reading in the Chamber of the Zan bill on homophobia, transphobia etc., two Churches holding this understanding wrote to the Presidency of the Council, appealing to that article, considering that the rights provided for therein would be eroded in case of approval of the measure. Without going into the matter of whether they are right or wrong (I am deeply convinced that they are perfectly right and, among other things, there was also a similar letter from the Secretariat of State of the Holy See), the Government had to and must give an answer, because otherwise we do not understand what this means, because this is a thing done by the Government. The agreements are signed by the President-in-Office of the Council and are then approved - as we are doing at the moment - by Parliament. Well, the Government must explain and respect the commitments made: first, on the basis of the first agenda, it must give full implementation to the analogous articles to which the two Churches (the Apostolic Church in Italy and the Church of Jesus Christ of the saints of the last days) have appealed, who sent the letter to the President of the Council. There was no sign of life on the part of the Government, which did not even answer questions, which asked what it had done. Now the government has made the commitment, accepting the agendas, and I hope that they will be taken seriously. The word of the government should apply, even if its representatives are talking to others at the moment, but the commitment is supposed to be the same. Is that true? I would ask the government representative at least to pretend, even for a few seconds, to listen to the speeches. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u88	At least one of two listens to her.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u89	Mr Malan (FdI). They're both so distracted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, don't disturb the Undersecretary. Mr Malan (FdI). Since I do not want to waste the time of this House, I ask the two representatives of the Government to take a look at what I have said, but especially at the agendas that have been approved and that the Government has accepted. They must be fully implemented, so if there is a letter from the representatives of Churches holding understanding that concerns the application of this article, the Government cannot escape, cannot remain silent or talk about the secularity of the State, because in this case it has nothing to do with the application of this article, rather it has to do with religious freedom. On the second and above all on the third agenda (which is interesting) we ask to explain what the Government intends to implement these articles, otherwise it means that it signs something to which it does not want to hold true. Religious freedom is fundamental, we fight in every place so that there is in the most complete way in Italy, applying in this case Article 8 of the Constitution, and that it is persecuted and supported also abroad. In fact, when it comes to the persecutions of Christians, there is always a lack of attention: they receive much more attention than anything else, but Christians are the minority (because in many countries they are the most persecuted minority) in the world and must be defended. [[Applause]] The government cannot speak just a few words, it cannot do business with countries that systematically persecute Christians without ever saying a word for them [[Applause]] , not only because Christians are the majority of Italians, but because the religious freedom of all must be defended. Secondly, I recall that if there is any religious exponent in the West who ended up in prison or under investigation or under charges before courts for having expressed his faith and his beliefs is for the rules of political correctness, once for the LGBT issue, another time for other gender issues. Therefore we must remember that if there is a danger to religious freedom in the West it is on these issues. We therefore vote in favour of this measure, but we ask the Government to be consistent because religious freedom must not only be defended in a formal and fake way, but in a substantial way in Italy and abroad. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u92	BITI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly even though Senator Malan has brought many arguments to the debate, broadening its scope, even though that procedural phase had already run out. We stick to the text of the bill, which brings the agreement between our State and the Association .Church of England. Therefore, on the basis of Article 8 of the Constitution, we firmly and compactly declare the Group's vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u95	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, with this draft law, which is in agreement with the Anglican Church, we are continuing a work which has already begun: I remember, in fact, that you, Mr President, were rapporteur for the other agreement with the Italian Buddhist Institute Soka Gakkai. I therefore believe that this is an important task which also guarantees constitutional principles and religious freedom. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u98	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I ask for permission to submit the text of my speech to the proceedings of the sitting and I am voting in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u99	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u102	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to spend a few minutes thinking on a very serious issue that our country urgently needs to address: the issue of cartels. I remember that the articles of the Constitution dealing with freedom are different: Articles 3, 7, 8, 19 and 20. Article 8 provides precisely for the instrument of understanding and a process of recognition in the constitutional hive of religious confessions extremely fragmentary and complicated. Who like me has dealt with religious freedom remembers a meeting in which the then president of the Senato Grasso participated with the various representatives of religious confessions, which produced a document that I advise everyone to read from the title "The exercise of religious freedom in Italy." The affirmation of religious pluralism daily places the institutions before cases that concern the concreteness and therefore the daily life, personal and family of Italian citizens, united by belonging to the same religious confession and spiritual community. We are therefore in a situation of ordinary life that concerns issues that have seen the intervention of the Constitutional Court, such as conscientious objection, witness to trials, vileness, marriage, construction of buildings of worship, freedom of worship; without forgetting more sad questions, such as the rites of burial. We must say that we are not always prepared in the State, in the institutions and on the territory. It is well known that we are touching deep strings of personal and community identity, demands of spaces and rights operated by others, that is, institutions close to citizens who are called to play the fundamental role of normalization and integration of the different souls of citizenship that lives on their territory. This too is often difficult, although absolutely guaranteed by the Constitution. Unfortunately, the fragmentation of legislation stratified over decades (from the Lateran Pacts of 1929 to 1989) is not easy to apply, making daily discrimination at several levels more risky. We need a complete revision of the regulations, harmonizing them in a single text. All this emerged from all meetings with religious representatives in official events organized by the Senate. Finally, I would like to point out that it is precisely on the basis of this system, which is a bit of a benefit, that with great difficulty we arrive at a complex process, which sees the presence of a committee which must analyse the presentation of very detailed documents, with agreements concluded in the 1980s or so. Let us think of the Waldensian Evangelical Church, the first to see disciplined relations with the State in 1984, which followed the Union of Adventist Churches in 1988, the Pentecostals again in 1988, the Union of Italian Jewish Communities in 1989. Historically, we're talking about the day before yesterday. And again the Sacred Italian Orthodox Archdiocese and Exarchate and Mormons in 2012; the Italian Buddhist Union and the Hindu Union in 2012. So we are also talking about religions that have a thousand - year tradition. I still remember the Italian Buddhist Institute Soka Gakkai in June 2016. All this is unheard of for a civilized country and I ask that the next Government, the present will not be able for reasons of time, take seriously the issue of religious freedom in Italy. Finally, I would like to say that my Group voted in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u105	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, colleagues, I will be extremely telegraphic. My Group will vote in favour of this measure in our examination, because it fully adheres to our postulates and values, in particular by responding to the values of our Constitutional Charter. I just want to remind you that in Italy we have over 100,000 members of the Church of England, practitioners; some are in the Armed Forces, there are religious institutes and schools. We must, in essence, defend a religious community that deserves respect and being a good and just thing, the Group of Forza Italia will vote firmly in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u106	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u107	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1280. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u108	Mr President, this is an amending protocol, as the text says. It was signed in July 2018 between Italy and Armenia and concerns international passenger and freight transport. It is essentially an amendment to the text of the bilateral agreement and provides that, in the case of the carriage of goods by a vehicle or vehicle complex, an authorisation may be used for only one of the two vehicles. As usual, the bill of ratification consists of four articles and a technical-regulatory analysis accompanying the bill itself does not present any profiles of incompatibility either with national legislation or with European legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u109	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u112	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u113	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u116	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we also welcome this and the subsequent ratifications for the Group of the Party of European Socialists, because the debate has been deepened in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u119	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure and the subsequent ratifications.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u122	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this agreement between Italy and Armenia dates back to 1999. I recall that this bill of ratification was presented during the first Conte Government, in agreement with Minister Salvini. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u125	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, since this measure makes a simple change and meets the needs of road hauliers, we are voting in favour of it, as well as for subsequent measures. I shall put the text of my explanation of vote in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u128	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I would like to announce Brothers of Italy's vote in favour of this measure and the others that will shortly be discussed in the Foreign Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u131	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this ratification and all the others. I reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote on bill 2065.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u132	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u133	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2132, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Rojc, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u134	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, on the ratification of the Statute of the East Mediterranean Gas Forum, approved on 22 September 2020, aimed at giving a structured and formal appearance to the Eastern Mediterranean Gas Forum, a body which, announced for the first time in October 2018 and set up in January 2019 on the initiative of Italy, Egypt, Jordan, Israel, Cyprus, Greece and the Palestinian National Authority, is now an intergovernmental international organisation, based in Cairo. The establishment of the Forum, for the European Commission considered completely compatible with European standards, has been welcomed by our country, given its strategic importance for the potential stabilising effects at regional level and for the protection of Italian industrial interests in the Mediterranean area, in line with the objectives of diversification of energy sources and decarbonisation that it pursues over time. The bill of ratification of the Senate of the East Mediterranean Gas Forum consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, assesses the overall economic burden of the measure, from 2021 onwards, in EUR 138,800. The ratification of the Statute does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u135	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u138	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to speak in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u139	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u140	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2155, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u141	Mr President, when I ask to be able to attach the written text of my speech, I would just like to highlight one aspect. This agreement comes at a time when there is a huge presence of Mexican cinema internationally. Therefore, re-presenting a protocol in which both Mexican and Italian film works are considered a national heritage is very important not only for bilateral collaboration, but precisely for the success of cinema, even Italian, in the Latin American continent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u142	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the written text of your speech. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u145	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with the hope that the Agreement will give impetus to the film industry in the two countries, even more in view of the serious crisis that the sector is experiencing, I declare the support of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u146	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u147	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2156, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Bishops, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u148	Mr President, I would ask that I be able to attach the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u149	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u152	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to refer briefly to the report presented by President Petrocelli: in this case we are not talking about cinematography, although we know very well that Korea is the most famous and most mentioned country in the world at this time, but we are talking about an air navigation agreement. However, we are in agreement and therefore I am voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u153	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u156	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that, even today, there are colleagues who continue to vote for other Members who are not physically present in this House. I find it not only inappropriate, but also dishonest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u157	Thank you, Senator Pavanelli. I ask the Secretary Senators to "stretch the eye": so will I.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u158	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2178, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u159	Mr President, I reserve the right to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. The bill of ratification in our examination is a conventional text, as we have approved a great many of them. I would just like to make a note to the representative of the Government: these agreements, dating back to 1992, in the definitions provide for films intended to be broadcast in cinemas: live cinemas, live cinemas at cinemas, but I remember that there are also other forms of destination of audiovisual products. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u160	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u163	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in recalling the important reopenings of all sectors of culture, which as a group we have strongly asked for and which bring us closer to a complete return to normality, I declare the Group's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u164	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u165	The next item is the debate on draft law 2065. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u166	Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of the report and simply point out that the ratification of this Convention, which is to replace the Delphi Convention in full and improve it, has never entered into force because it has never reached the necessary ratifications. Unlike that Convention dating back to 1985, it is specifically defined in this text that the proposed action is aimed at combating illicit trafficking and the destruction of cultural goods in the framework of the action to protect against terrorism and organised crime, which is a considerable variation from the previous one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u167	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of the report. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u170	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u173	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day because we are taking a fundamental step forward in protecting our precious cultural heritage, which is one of the main Italian riches that the whole world envys us and which, unfortunately, we have not always been able to defend and safeguard as we should. Italy is the state that hosts the largest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the world; not to mention all the many other artistic, architectural and naturalistic excellences that make our country unique. It is precisely because of the need to protect this immense capital that I have decided to present the draft law now before us which I hope will be adopted unanimously today. We are talking about the ratification of the Nicosia Convention of the Council of Europe, which aims to prevent and combat intentional destruction, damage and trafficking of cultural goods, strengthening the effectiveness and ability to respond to criminal justice systems in relation to crimes relating to cultural goods, facilitating international cooperation on the subject and providing for preventive measures at national and international level. It is therefore a clear regulatory tool to ensure greater and better protection of the priceless beauties that we have the fortune and privilege of hosting. For this reason, I firmly declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u174	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u175	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1378. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u176	Mr President, I would ask you to attach the written text of my report to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u177	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u180	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I believe that among the various ratifications this morning, this is one of the most important, at least for me. I think it is necessary to dwell on it for a few minutes, the minimum necessary to mark the passage of this ratification. We are talking about a great European experiment and a counter-trend action: the United Kingdom, in fact, through this Agreement, is asking to enter in a very important way, giving its share of EUR 25 million (which essentially equates it to all the other founding members), in a major European research project called XFEL. It would have been very interesting to discuss with Minister Cingolani the form in which this laboratory was created, this project to know his point of view. Italy is present in this project in an important and fundamental way - as I would always say - with the National Institute of Nuclear Physics (INFN), and this experiment is a bit the new frontier after the great experiment of CERN Large hadron collider (LHC). If we are talking about CERN, we are talking about Italian research but also about one of our great colleagues, Senator Rubbia, another Nobel Prize winner and one of the most famous physicists who worked at CERN; we also have Senator Cattaneo here. We are making an important contribution to the world of research, and we are doing so from an economic but also institutional point of view, given the two prestigious colleagues. Last but not least, in recent days he has received a Nobel Prize an Italian, Professor Parisi, theoretical physicist always of the National Institute of Nuclear Physics: also thanks to his studies, experiments have been carried out always at the LHC of CERN. I believe that today, too, it is important in this House to consider how important it is to finance research, whether theoretical or experimental, and we do so not only verbally but constructively through this Agreement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u181	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u182	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1922. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u183	Mr President, if you will allow me, I too will hand over the text of my report, obviously pointing out that this ratification is concerned with the first global satellite navigation system (GNSS) for civil use in the world, enough to approve this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u184	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u187	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u188	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u189	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1923. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u190	Mr President, if you will allow me, I will hand over the text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u191	Senator Ferrara, I authorize you to do this. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u194	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u195	The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Errani, Aimi, Malan and Ferrara confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u198	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. Today there is an article on the Newspaper Fact (not just a right-wing newspaper), in which it is said that the government risks to cover the Benetton with money with the Autostrade affair. It is a question of numerous questions, not only mine, but also of colleagues from the majority, as well as Senator Crucioli and Senator D'Alfonso, to whom the Government does not answer. The question is this: following the collapse of the Morandi bridge, in which very serious management responsibilities have emerged, there have been various ideas on how to provide: there are those who proposed to revoke the concession immediately and so on. Nothing's been revoked. The solution is contained in the Convention signed at the time by the Government with the company Autostrade in 2007: it is the article that provides for the withdrawal that the State withdraws from this Convention paying a certain sum. This sum would amount to a total of 13 billion. Following the procedure on which the negotiation by Cassa deposits and loans is in advanced state, the money that is paid to Benetton, that is to say to Atlantia, of which the Benettons are the major shareholders, would be well 21 billion, that is 8 billion extorted from the pockets of all those who pass on the 2,850 kilometers of the company Autostrade, concession acquired without ever having made a contest, but only for benevolence or great ability of relationship from the company Autostrade. Instead of giving 13 billion, you give 21 billion. Even the new company - the one in which Cassa Depositi and Loans would have a relative but not absolute majority, because the absolute majority would continue to have private partners - would bear the damages to be paid for the disaster of the Morandi bridge. The chairman of the Committee of the Family of the Victims of the Fall of 14 August 2018 also spoke on this. No reply has ever been given to you, just as no answer has been given to the numerous questions (as I said there are also those of other senators) but I am talking about mine: the 4-05316, the 4-05506, the 4-05711, all of which are at least three months old. It is shameful that the government does not respond, it is the money of the citizens who are also extorted from motorists, causing serious damage also to the competitiveness of the country and to the productive activities besides the ordinary citizens, who exercise their constitutional right to move within the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u201	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, in this House, with the solemnity of the Senate of the Republic, we often remember personalities who have left us, who have honored Italy. Today I would like to remind Professor Sante Tura, father of Italian Hematology, who left us yesterday. At 92, this personality that honored Bologna and the entire Nation immediately distinguished itself, from a young age. He was director of the Institute of Hematology of the San'Orsola Hospital in Bologna, university professor, founder of the Seragnoli Institute, the father for all of Italian hematology, the guardian of blood, as they have defined him. A man capable of introducing avant-garde therapies, a connoisseur of extraordinary matter. He was also a man who always had a fundamental dowry for all doctors, who was able to combine competence and professionalism with his humanity, with his willingness to others, all of them, from the greatest to the smallest. His patients have been an endless host, unfortunately, including many illustrious names of sportsmen, but also our unforgettable mayor of Bologna Giorgio Guazzaloca, with whom Tura also had a political experience, because he has always taken care of the public thing. Actually, if there are people who mark the history of cities and even of nations, I believe that for Bologna Sante Tura represented this. There is no political part that does not bow to his memory today, there is no citizen who has not known this extraordinary doctor and this great man. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u202	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-367.ana.u203	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 19 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.20 a.m.
