ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 24 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to address a moving thought to the memory of Senator Francesco Bosi, public official, party leader, long-term parliamentarians, man of the institutions. Francesco Bosi was a valuable interpreter of the values of social and democratic Christianity, ideals and principles that have inspired and guided every moment of his life and that he proudly defended in a period of profound transformations of the party scene, what was the one that characterized, in our country, the end of the last century and the beginning of the years 2000. After the dissolution of the Christian Democracy, he was, in fact, among the main protagonists of a project to regenerate the national political dialectic in a Catholic key; a project that he tried to implement both actively participating in the constitution of new important political formations and through his convinced and passionate parliamentary commitment; an experience lasting as many as four legislatures, two of which here in the Senate, where he was also Secretary of Presidency. As State Secretary for Defence, from June 2001 to May 2006, Francesco Bosi was distinguished by rigour, competence and deep respect for the institutions, in a role that the international scenarios following the attacks of 11 September had made particularly complex and delicate. It was also fundamental in those years to contribute to the full implementation of the National Civil Service Act and to the approval of important legislative measures, including the decree-law in favour of our civilian and military fellow citizens who were victims of terrorist attacks abroad. His connection with the territory, with Tuscany and in particular with the Municipality of Rio Marina, on the island of Elba, of which he was mayor for ten years. With Francesco Bosi we lose a friend, a colleague of many parliamentary battles, a passionate politician, capable and generous; his unshakable faith in the values of social Christianity and the principles of democracy represent a valuable teaching for all of us and for future generations. In renewing to the family of Senator Francesco Bosi my personal condolences and of the entire Senate of the Republic, I invite this Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u7	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, I asked to speak because for me Francesco Bosi was a valuable collaborator, a fraternal friend, a man with whom I shared, in good and bad luck, a long political path. However, Madam President, after your words, which have been so beautiful and so well represented the figure of our missing colleague, I would just like to thank you, on behalf not only of your staff but also of your family, for I believe that they remain carved in memory of a good and just man. I do not intend to add anything else because sincerely my words and perhaps others would also spoil the beautiful portrait that you wanted to make of a great friend, Senator, State Secretary for Defence, Regional Councillor, for long years political exponent of Tuscany. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u10	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Madam President, today we are in this Chamber remembering my colleague Francesco Bosi, who died at only seventy-six years old. As you mentioned and as Senator Casini did now with his words, yours was a very important story, the story of a man who gave a lot to the institutions. He was a man of great gifts and values, of a rare humanity, always ready to work for the territory, even when he held governmental positions, aware of the strong bond that united him to the local realities of Tuscany, in which he began his political career. We lose a great interpreter of the democratic-Christian values, a personality who lived politics with passion and commitment and with an extraordinary link to the democratic-Christian principles. It is precisely in these days that his colleagues who worked with him on the territory more closely describe him as the man of mediation, as a gentleman always available to dialogue and to the search for compromise. That is why I think it is important to remember these qualities which are essential for a good politician and to make a good policy today. To his family, to his loved ones, but also to the UDC Group, which he himself helped to create, on behalf of Italia Viva - P.S.I., our sincere condolences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u13	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I agree with the words of President Casini, who very much reminded me of Francesco Bosi, whom I considered a dear friend, a very serious person, with a great attachment to his territory, to Florence, to the island of Elba and to Italy as a whole; a man who made politics his vocation. I conclude my very brief speech by saying that I would like to meet so many men in this House like Francesco. He has taught us so much and can still be an example and a help to us today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u16	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my experience, as soon as I arrived at the Chamber, was that of having Francesco Bosi, close as a countermate. It was an experience in which the complexity of the topics that gradually faced each other required the ability to operate, from my point of view, a profound mediation between what was the concreteness of the theme of the bill that from time to time deepened and what remains for me an uneliminable value of politics, which was the profoundly spiritual and deeply Catholic dimension in all that was done and said; how to hold together different themes, looking for an always high synthesis, that truly pay homage to the primacy of politics, but without politics forgetting its roots. In this sense, Francesco Bosi was a very discreet, very effective, very profound colleague; a person who never missed the even more subtle implications of certain decisions, able to find that point of mediation that in opening up to others - I actually think of the law on civil service; I think of taking charge of all the problems related to the Armed Forces; however, I think of the experience that as mayor he had made of the problems of the territory, therefore of the maximum proximity to the problems of the people - he always finds a highly balanced synthesis. What struck him was a high capacity for mediation, which I attribute in part precisely to his Christian demochrist roots, and at the same time a strong point of transcendence that helped him to see the problems without ever letting himself be entangled by the small difficulty, by ostracism, by the conflict that sometimes represent a trap for all of us when we have to make decisions. He was a great man in his simplicity, because he was really a simple colleague in formulating his judgments, in expressing his assessments, in giving his suggestions; very respectful of the freedom and choices of all, but also very consistent with the respect he demanded for the freedom of his choices. He was indeed a political man of whom we would like to find today - in the complexity of the problems we have to face day by day - a high synthesis, where the vision of politics never veils a deeper vision of what are human problems, of what are human rights; a vision capable of grasping and declining the expression "human rights" in the fullness of its meaning, really using all the wealth possible to give the life of all of us a dimension truly capable of reconciling us with a political vision that is never merely personal interest, that is never even the interest of its territory; a vision rather given by the experience probably given to the Ministry of Defense, in a complex international context such as that in which he lived, which really gave Bosi a very wide, very deep and effective perspective. I remember him with great affection and with this I also remember his family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u19	Mr Totaro (FdI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the fine words with which you mentioned Senator Bosi earlier as a politician; I add my thoughts to those made by President Casini as well. Francesco Bosi was a great personality of politics at national level and - you mentioned it before, President - a man very attached to the territory where he performed the work of mayor, to the island of Elba, and also to Florence where he served as city councilman and also regional, city that he loved very much and to which he was very attached. His battles were many: it is useless to remember them for a long time because they will remain forever important in the world of Catholicism, for the values he felt to represent. I would also like to remind him personally because for us, for myself, for many others who have been part of the political right, since always, since childhood, Francesco Bosi has always been - even seeing his images - a smiling man, a gentleman, a good person. Even when the seed of discrimination against the political right in Tuscany was strong, in Florence, which was certainly not an easy territory for us, Francesco Bosi has never made us feel these feelings about us; indeed, he has always been close to us with his presence and has already proved to be a decent person since then. Over the years there has been a collaboration within the center right, between the area of the right and the center that represented that political deployment. I therefore also remember it from a personal point of view and bring my condolences to his family, in particular to his son Lorenzo and to all his family, because it is a great loss for our country and especially for Tuscany and Florence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u22	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione also expresses today in this Chamber its condolences for the death of Senator Francesco Bosi to his family, his friends and collaborators, to his party of belonging. Among the founders of the UDC, he left his political heritage as a deeply Catholic man, with firm principles of Christendom and authentic faith. He dedicated his human and kind trait to his intense political activity, which saw him play roles as deputy and senator, but also roles related to his territory, Tuscany: as regional adviser and then, in Florence, as city councilman and city councilman. He also held the office of mayor in Rio Marina, in the beautiful island of Elba, which will now probably be the place chosen for his eternal rest. Thus a human figure of full generosity to his neighbour disappears, cooperative and capable of being, before political, a man who makes politics. This characteristic, however subtle it may appear, still makes a big difference today, and it is for this characteristic, which is prestigious and rare, that we all want to remember. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u25	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the work of the Senate because we will shortly be dealing with the request - as has already been mentioned in various ways both in this institution and outside - of the calendarization of the bill against homophobia and transphobia known as the Zan bill. Well, in the past few days two Churches holding one of the arrangements provided for in Article 8 of the Constitution have written a formal letter to the Head of Government, the President of the Council of Ministers, asking to activate the clauses provided for in each of their agreements - I read one, but they are identical - where it is said: "on the occasion of draft laws relating to matters involving the relations of the Apostolic Church in Italy" (or of the Church of Jesus Christ and the Saints of the last days) "with the State, the agreements of the case will be promoted, in advance in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution. And I repeat in advance also in the case of draft laws. The Senate cannot ignore this passage: the agreements are provided for by the Constitution, they cannot be modified by ordinary law because they are comparable to an international treaty; they can certainly be abolished: the law is repealed and even the article 8 of the Constitution is repealed, which is a garrison provided by the constituent Fathers for the protection of religious freedom, but they cannot be ignored. I know the government has moved, but the bill is undoubtedly at the Senate's exam. The Senate cannot ignore legal provisions that are of constitutional dignity, so much so that the approval of the agreements was signed in 2012 not by any official, nor by a ministerial leader, but by the President of the Council of Ministers who, for the record, at the time when such agreements were concluded, was Romano Prodi who obviously signed not for himself but for the Italian Republic. This law commits us all, because the Senate of the Republic - as the same name says - represents the Italian Republic. We can't ignore these things. There may be an examination, you can say anything, you can agree or not on the detailed observations that the two religious confessions have presented, but this aspect cannot be ignored because it represents a cornerstone of the protection of religious freedom in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u26	Senator Malan, we will take into account your comments that are intertwined both with the subsequent vote on the calendar and with the Conference of the Leaders that will be held at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u29	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, I have filed an application pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, to ask that the House vote on my request to schedule the motion as a matter of urgency in order to prevent the negotiation and contract between the Deposit and Loan Bank and Atlantia. The urgency is dictated by the fact that the contract is in progress or would already have been concluded which, however, contains a clause suspensive of the effectiveness, connected to the signature by the Minister of Infrastructure, of the transaction that would put an end to the process of revocation. The motion is intended precisely to prevent the Minister from signing. As soon as he signs, the motion will become useless and Parliament will be confronted with the fact that it has been done. I therefore asked that the motion be put to the vote as a matter of urgency under Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, having collected the necessary signatures - indeed, two more - possibly also on the same day as the request was made, i.e. today, or on the following day through an implementation of the agenda. This request has been filed. I can accept that this House should speak against, if the majority does not wish to do so; I cannot accept that it should act on nothing or that, in any case, it should not be given an explicit answer to the request, possibly putting it to the record, also in order to allow me to appeal to the Constitutional Court for a conflict of powers. I would urge you to reply to the application lodged. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u30	Senator Crucioli, the Conference of the Leaders is convened immediately after the vote on the calendar and, therefore, in that place we will submit its application. If this is not the case, we shall submit the same request as you made pursuant to Rule 157 (2) of the Rules of Procedure to the vote of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u33	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I too would like to speak very quickly on the order of business. The issues highlighted by Senator Malan seem to me to be inconsistent or consistent with what we will have to discuss shortly, as I believe there is no affinity between the freedom to exercise and profess a religion with the things we are about to talk about shortly. It seems to me that a person defined by everyone as the Messiah said to love our neighbor as ourselves and, therefore, it does not seem to me that the things highlighted have any relevance to the bill that was discussed before.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u34	Senator, we will discuss calendarization and it is clear that the subject that Senator Malan poses or has placed is inevitably intertwined with the debate on calendarization itself, because it is an aspect of a very wide discussion, which is traced back to many other aspects. And this is one of the ones you've been looking at. That's it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u35	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders, which met on Wednesday 23 June, approved by a majority the timetable until 13 July. In the current week the decree-law on the temporary allowance and, for the second resolution, the draft constitutional law on the extension of the electorate active for the Senate will be discussed. An absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required for the final vote on the latter measure. At 9.30 a.m. tomorrow it will be called for the secret ballot vote by means of ballots for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI. The ballot boxes will remain open until 5 p.m. Thursday 8 July, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers of Agricultural Policy, University and Youth Policy. The Conference of Leaders also established, by a majority, that on Tuesday 13 July, at 4.30 p.m., the draft law, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the fight against discrimination and violence by sex, gender or disability will begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u36	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 23 June 2021, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 13 July: [[Tuesday, July 6, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2267 - Decree-Law n. 79, Temporary allowance (final vote by July 9) (deceases on August 7) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1440-B - Extension of the electorate for the Senate (second resolution of the Senate) (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Voting for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI (secret ballot by ballot by ballot) * (Wednesday, July 7, 9.30 a.m.) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 8, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 7 " h. 9.30 a.m. Thursday 8 " h. 9.30 a.m.]] * After the call, the ballot boxes will remain open until 5 p.m. [[Tuesday, July 13 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law on the fight against discrimination or violence by sex, gender or disability]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2267 (Decree-Law No 79, Temporary allowance) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 32'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u39	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, I am focusing specifically on the items on next week's calendar. As all colleagues know - because we have not made a mystery of our work - the majority group leaders have met since last week to try to reach an agreement on the draft law Zan: I stress that this is a draft law, not a decree-law, with a deadline that makes it expire and that it is necessary to bring it to the Chamber on a certain date. [[Applause]] I recognise to all my fellow group leaders and colleagues who participated in the profound intellectual honesty meeting in representing their political motivations and in proposing amendments to the text of the Zan bill. As you know, there are, not only within Forza Italia, minority and majority sensitivities with respect to this text. That is why we have asked for the measure not to be forced into action, with an expression that my colleague Simona Malpezzi asked me not to use: I correct myself, then, and I say that we have asked for the measure not to be catapulted, not to be accelerated, not to be transported with an unusual speed by the Commission, where we are in the process of hearing - I stress that we are in the process of hearing - to the House, a week away from the time when this decision is taken. We have made this request because it is clear that in this way the House is forced to examine on certain dates a measure which can only be approved in the current text, without allowing this House to carry out its function. [[Applause]] , that is, to make those changes, obviously improvements, which are considered necessary to include in a path of growth of the law. As we have said and here we repeat, we believe it is important and fundamental that this law be examined; we believe that it is vile, not to bring the law to the Chamber, but to bring it to the Chamber in order to kill it and to free itself of the responsibility for doing so, and to blame it on someone else. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I think - I want to emphasize - that the Zan law is an important step of civilization for this country, I sincerely believe that and you know the sincerity of our intentions. I believe, however, that we cannot approve and publish in the Official Journal a manifesto, a flag, because in the Official Journal we publish the laws, not the flags. [[Applause]] We are fully aware that the text of this law is wrong - so many colleagues who have told me this separately - because they are part of this provision of conduct that is not understood whether or not they represent a crime until a judge says whether they are or not, and this, colleagues, is called the criminal norm in blank and is prohibited by the Constitution. [[Applause]] I say this and say it again: I want the Zan law in this House, I want it on my own behalf and for the parliamentary group I represent. But I don't want to be forced to take it or leave it. I don't want to be forced to approve a rule by disallowing my rights as legislators just because someone forces me to do so, depriving me of my rights. [[Applause]] of a person who represents not only his intimate and deep convictions, but also the intimate and deep convictions of those who think differently. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a liberal, but a person who thinks that my freedom and rights are better than those of others; that is not how laws are made. It is for this reason that we ask you with all humility, availability and - I repeat - the intellectual honesty that the presence in this House requires us to reflect again on the mediation that President Ostellari has proposed. I thank President Ostellari for his ability to sum up [[Applause]] , he worked well because he put together what apparently would have been together with great difficulty. Colleagues, at this moment we have a text on which we have only stopped because of a word; we come out of the stiffening of positions, we come out of the flags, we throw them out of the window, we think of the rights of the people we say we want to protect by this law and we do a real mediation on the rise [[Applause]] and not a downward forcing bringing to the House a rule that is not ready to be adopted. Colleagues, it's not too late. If we are to vote on a timetable at the moment, as you are asking us to do, which will bring Zan law into the Chamber next week, it is clear that this law will only be what you think it should be and that it should therefore represent that part of the world that you think should be represented in a privileged way. What about the others? What about freedom of speech? And the freedom of expression and freedom to think differently from how you think a text should be inserted into a norm? Colleagues, I am sincerely convinced that it is not too late, and that is why I propose that instead of forcing the calendar to a non-rapid, but rather hectic, hectic and crazy run of the Zan bill to the Assembly next week with unchanged text, we take a few more days. President Ostellari checked the point; we had said an extra week to allow the Commission, which is overburdened with measures, which is already deciding in conjunction with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the other committees that will have to examine the Zan draft law, giving an opinion on it, to work seriously on the text. Colleagues, if they are not just words, if we really have to defend a right, if we have to defend the LGBTQ+ rights, which I am deeply convinced of, of which we are deeply convinced, there is no single way of doing so. Politics is mediation, confrontation and ability to sum up. Let's sum it up. Half an inch away from our tables until an hour ago. Let's keep going. We do not, Mr Malpezzi, make excessive leaps forward because this is not about victories and defeats of someone, it is about the political maturity of this House which must show that it is capable of representing everyone and not just a favorite part. This is not part of a political agreement that falls within the scope of the Government's operations. This is parliamentary activity. We said it once and we repeat it: the Conte Government is over, it no longer exists, we are in a new phase, in a phase of national unity. Let's not split up on a calendar that with an extra week would still see us together. I propose, in conclusion, to make Zan law a truly shared law, a law that is a proof of political maturity for us. A law that makes us do what we're here for: work on standards to improve them. We are not non-participating observers, we are legislators, let us not just observe the passage of the Zan law without putting our hand in it. We work together to make it better and to improve the rights of those who care about us and represent the true heart of the norm, that is, its recipients. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u42	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote against the proposal for a timetable for work for a number of reasons. The first refers to a rather strange case relating to the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle. The report was strongly wanted by the left to come to this House and has been scheduled; then, suddenly, without anyone saying or explaining anything, that report has been withdrawn and no more talk about it. Since we are used to misthinking, we have the impression that someone does not want the content of that report, which relates to the case of red chalks in Tuscany, to be discussed in this House, because it contains some very precise, strict and detailed accusations against the regional administration of Tuscany and the control bodies. If we think badly, I would like someone in the majority to stand up and confirm that this report will come to the House as soon as possible for a vote. [[Applause]] Otherwise we will continue to think badly with more arguments than we have today, but surely we will not keep this fact. The second question of course concerns the draft law - which my colleague, Mrs Bernini, has dubbed a decree, for clear reasons - Zan. The left has decided that bicameralism no longer exists; therefore it was not necessary to make the referendum, President Renzi, because the PD, by a unilateral act, decided that the Senate no longer exists, it does not need to work, it does not need to argue, it does not need to try to improve a text. Senators do not need to exercise their right-duty to work, each in his own field, to try to correct and improve the texts that come to their attention. The motivation is obvious. In addition to what we all know, in my opinion there is another reason, a political figure as large as a house, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: there is a majority in the majority which is more than a majority of the others and which wants to show it. He wants to prove who's in charge of the majority and the Dragon Government. The masters of the majority are the 5 Stars and the PD and demonstrate it with this Diktat; they are the masters of the majority and behave with masterly attitude, with the arrogance of the masters of the past, so they forcefully impose their truth on the whole Parliament, which cannot be contested. That is what happens. As we have said a hundred times and we repeat for the 21st time (I said so, Mr Balboni said, we have said so many times in the Justice Commission), if the country's emergency - admitted and not allowed to be this - is homophobic violence, we are once again willing to think about how to make the criminal rules that already exist - that already exist! - stronger and more effective, if that's the subject. I am afraid, however, that is not the issue at all. We cannot accept the adoption, on such a delicate issue, of a liberticide norm (President Alberti Casellati, weight the words: a liberticide norm), which surreptitiously (but not even so surreptitiously) introduces the crime of opinion; a rule that limits, until almost nullifying, the role of the family as a privileged place to educate their children; a norm that necessarily introduces in schools of every order and grade the Day of gender theory, even in elementary schools, even to children of six years. [[Applause]] On the other hand, Mr President, as is typical of any authoritarian regime, indoctrination begins at an early age; and here we are talking about indoctrination. You guys go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on They tried to reason with you and stop the Catholic associations (but they did not succeed), the secular associations, the feminist ones, and then intellectuals and personalities who held the office of President of the Constitutional Court; even the very prudent Vatican intervened with a note that has no precedent. But it doesn't matter to you; it only counts for your ideological flag to flag; it matters to you to approve a law, in an unacceptable way, so that you, who perhaps - we will see in the next few days - are a majority in this House but you are certainly a minority outside of here, can impose on the rest of the country, to the majority of the country, a law that introduces the unique thought and can control those who think differently. [[Applause]] This is the content of the Zan bill, and this explains the urgency and dullness of not accepting criticism and also messages of compromise or agreement from the rest of Parliament. Our opposition, Mr President, will be very hard, because it will not be enough - and I say this also to my colleagues in the centre-right - to change a comma, a semicolon, a righina: the law must be changed in substance and we are not content with some compromise to the bottom. Our opposition will be very hard in this House and we will use all the instruments that the Rules of Procedure allow, and we want to let the country know that there is an opposition that will fight with all the forces it has to avoid this prevarication to the detriment of Parliament and the Italian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u43	Senator Ciriani, but your request with respect to the calendar is that this argument should not be at all? What's your proposal? CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, as I said, I would ask that the draft Zan law not be discussed and that the debate on the Special Commission report on the waste cycle be included as the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u46	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I have heard Mr Bernini say words that I might have liked to hear some time ago: I am referring to the desire to give a strong weight to our role as legislators and, above all, to the possibility of a real deepening and debate. I say this because I would like to remind all of us, of me first, that the Zan bill was passed by the House and arrived in the Senate last November. The President tells us that the Commission is working and is in the process of being heard, but for seven months this draft law has not, unfortunately, been in the Commission's attention, but is "put there." What have we always asked for? That is the fundamental point: we asked that, when a draft law arrives, the ordinary procedure finally begins in the Commission. Certainly you can do a round of auditions, but not a hundred and seventy [[Applause]] ; When one hundred and seventy hearings are held, it clearly means that we want to slow down the path of the bill. We have asked for time to be set for the debate and for the tabling of amendments. But this was not possible. We therefore reject to the sender the accusation of the forcings, because it is not a forcing. In fact, if we wanted to force the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars had already collected the signatures to get the bill to the House under the urgency procedure and we have waited, because once again we wanted to understand how to proceed. We have asked, however, precisely to finally remove the draft law from this limbo, to finally put a stop to it, and this - Mr President, you are teaching me this - can only be, as happened at other times, the calendarization in the Chamber. It is a firm point, because if you schedule and say that on that date, closed or not closed, the measure must arrive in the Chamber, it is clear that the procedures in the Commission are set in motion, if you really have the will. We also said - the President is a witness - that we were asking for a timetable, as we did at the Conference of the Leaders, and that if there were a timetable, we would of course be available for meetings at the table. This table has met three times since last week, although we are still here to discuss calendarization. We have all taken note of the efforts made to President Ostellari and we must always appreciate the efforts, but I would like to ask him why we are now trying not to schedule the measure once again. Let us get him and President Ostellari, who is also the rapporteur, because, as President of the Commission, he has been appointed rapporteur, he has the right to deposit this text which he has presented to us today and then to start the normal procedure, with a view to fixing the deadline for tabling amendments and therefore to be able to do all the in-depth work. Do not think we should make an agreement outside, even between the Leaders for charity, and then postpone the calendarization again. We have this need and it is to the attention of the public, certainly with different opinions: we are asking, now for a long time immemorial, to finally be able to give our country also a law that widens the rights. It is not a law that takes them away from someone: this is the fundamental thing. [[Applause]] Shall we discuss the matter? All right, let's do all the further research, but that means that we set a date for the examination of the bill in this House and then President Ostellari, rapporteur, deposits his text and the Commission has all the expertise to be able to work and do a profitable job, as we have done so far. I would also like to say that this bill refers to consolidated guidelines, also at European level, and so it is also a matter of choosing where we want to place our country. I think that our country in Europe must be positioned together with the countries that are most exposed to rights and to the enlargement of rights. We cannot place it on the side of those who, as we have already seen recently, sign documents that are exactly the opposite, namely the denial of rights. I repeat, Mr President, that there are no strings attached here, but simply that we vote on the timetable and finally set a date. This puts order and can initiate procedures in the Commission to remove this bill from limbo in which it has been held for months, setting up a obstructive campaign, such as the one in these classrooms, but certainly also orchestrating a denigration campaign. This is not an ideology problem; the problem is that everyone has to assume their responsibilities and we want to assume this responsibility to the full, by voting on the timetable and by clearly saying that there is a precise date, which is July 13th. On that date the draft law is expected to arrive in the Chamber and at that point the Commission will finally have to set the time limits for it to proceed. There is all the time, if one wants, to do a serious and effective job and this fully meets our duty as legislators. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u49	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League Group wants to claim that, since the beginning of the adventure in this Draghi Government, both in the Commission and consequently in this House, it has never brought or proposed draft laws that were divisive. [[Applause]] , but he has always tried to bring, as I think also colleagues of Forza Italia, drafts of laws that found broad consensus, because it seemed that the most just spirit, being part of this Government, was to try to put as much issues as possible to be shared. The Zan bill is divisive not because we say it, but because, as you have seen, the country is divided on this issue: you see it in the press, you see it in many statements by exponents of the left, of Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court. A verbal note has even arrived from the Vatican Secretariat of State, so there is the world of the Church that raises some questions. This is such a divisive subject that you cannot expect to deal with it by forcing and demanding a timetable in this House for next week, knowing that the Commission will hardly be able to find a solution in a few days. [[Applause]] The truth is that bringing the bill to the House for debate next week means expelling the Commission of its powers, not speeding up the work of the Commission, but exactly the opposite. [[Applause]] We are all part of a majority, but do we really want to deal with such a delicate issue by voting on a calendar? This is what we have said from the beginning and we are telling you clearly: we have put it all through, we have tried them all, starting with the fact that we have deposited a bill signed by Senator Ronzulli, Senator Matteo Salvini and others, just to testify that on the issue of the fight against discrimination we are there. [[Applause]] This is a signal that we wanted to give, but that bill did not even want to look at it, because logic tends to say that we combine the draft laws, we make a single text, we bring it to the vote of the Commission and we discuss it. This is the method, it is a well-established practice for those who are part of a majority. Despite this, since we wanted to start with the Zan bill, we agreed that we would start with that, also here by giving our willingness to try. We have come to realize that there are some articles in the Zan bill that have been subject of course to criticism, as we have already said, also from the world of the left, by some feminists. I have been sent amendments proposed by Arcilesbica by email - I did not invent them - asking to change that law. [[Applause]] President Ostellari promptly convened a table immediately after the Conference of Leaders, which we have been asking for for a month and a half on this side, but we have always been told that the law had to be drawn up before. Isn't this a force? Are you kidding me? I sit at the table right away, if you invite me, I don't ask for calendarization first. The President, Mr Ostellari, asked for the proposed amendments. There are political groups that present them. We come to a text that tries as much as possible to please all instances. A text that we have considered a good starting point. Today, during the meeting, we asked for a signal from the center-left of the Giallorossi majority (call it as you wish) of the will to change the text. The answer you gave us was: no way! You have rejected a proposal for mediation, made by President Ostellari, which took into account all the sensibilities. But to get to the point: why do you do this? Because the truth is that you want to approve the law as it is. [[Applause]] You have made it clear that your attitude and your will is to take or leave. At this point, however, in the face of this attempt and this will, which you have expressed very clearly, at this point everyone, as has been well said, must take responsibility for himself. Your responsibility, however, will be to poison the political climate of a majority supporting the Government. As responsible people, we should all sit around the table and discuss and reason without haste. [[Applause]] That was the old-fashioned policy! Instead, today there is the policy of "taking or leaving" because it is claimed that the law is distorted. I ask a question. If the objective of the Zan bill is to combat discrimination related to sexual orientation, sex and gender and other types, but why are you opposed to President Ostellari's proposal? In Article 1, its proposal sets out, as the purpose of the law, the following: The purpose of this law is, in implementation of Article 3 of the Constitution, to offer the widest possible protection against all forms of discrimination based on sex, gender - because there is certainly within gender the aspect of transphobia, lesbophobia and all the issues you have often talked about - and sexual orientation, such as expressions of inviolable rights of each individual, as well as any form of discrimination aimed at disability. But if this is the objective of the Zan law, why are you not happy with this article? Explain why it's not okay. [[Senator Licheri's comments. Brusio.]] Disability was also within the Zan bill. It's okay. It's okay. Read and study, Licheri! Study! [[Applause]] Maybe, instead, the goal is another and presents all possible intentions of good faith, which are those obviously linked to protecting these identities. The real risk is that the target... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u50	Colleagues, please, so I can't hear anything. There's too much buzz. Please, Senator Romeo, continue and tell me what your proposal to amend the timetable is.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u51	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, if, on the other hand, the objective is to introduce or legitimise sexual fluidity and neutral gender, which are market logics, we are not there! [[Applause]] We're not on gender ideology! They are market logics, because we all know that, if there is a neutral gender, it is easier to sell glazes to men too! We all know that's the case. That's the truth! Let us forget these logics, as well as the protection of personal freedom, the protection of the expression of one's ideas, which are guaranteed by the Constitution, and so it must be and remain. There must be no crime of opinion. [[Applause]] Faced with this, we will support Mr Bernini's proposal, because we still hope that some of the former Giallorossi majority will be willing to really reason. Let us put ourselves there, find a solution, we are close, as Mrs Bernini said, and above all we do a service giving a real law to the citizens and let us forget the ideologies, which are likely to hurt our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u54	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would also like to make a few points of order. As I said before to my friend and colleague Bernini and to all my colleagues at the previous meeting, I ask, not for some kind of personal favor, not to use the term "strengthening" simply because it is not appropriate. In fact, in today's story, President De Petris tried to put some order in order to show that the term "strengthening" is not absolutely appropriate, because after the aforementioned draft law was passed in the House and when it came to the Senate examination (so we are talking about seven months ago), I would like to put a date before it, Mr President, and I would also like to say this to my colleagues: in April, after countless requests, in the Committee on Justice, where I found myself because I was replacing my colleague, Mr Cirinna, who was away for a small speech at that time, we had to vote by majority in order to be able to frame a measure that was already here for months. Such a thing had never been seen before. [[Applause]] and this was because there was a clear contrast with those who told us that there was no need to talk about that topic. It is not that we woke up yesterday or last week in asking for calendarisation, because we have been asking for an orderly approach to this issue in that Commission for months. The answer given by President Ostellari, certainly in his prerogatives, was to allow - and that is all very well - a very large number of hearings, as many as 170. At that point we made another request: that at least the hearings already held in the Chamber be given for consolidated, known, then filed again and read; we were not granted that either. We therefore asked for the 170 hearings to be included in a very compact programme so that the Commission could proceed; we were not allowed that either, so much so that since April the hearings are still under way and have not been completed, because there were only a few hours a week to carry them out. [[Applause]] On the term "strengthening" I would say therefore to be careful, also because, as Senator De Petris explained before well, we could have used other tools to force, but since we did not think them correct, really wanting to give the right time to debate, we tried to respect the times. Mr President, you will also remember that together with President Licheri, President De Petris and President Unterberger we have also written to you, pointing out the difficulties of work in that Commission, pointing out that, if there had been no action, which I want to redefine orderly, we would have asked for the timing of the measure and nothing ever happened. And that's why, Senator Bernini, it's not a force, that's why, Senator Romeo, it's not a force, because we've been going on for months with this. So we said: well, let's schedule, let's set a certain date, so that the Commission will then work. By the way, we have heard important members of the League say that it takes ten minutes to find the agreements. [[Applause]] Then that Commission will be able to find the agreements! Today we find out in this House that this cannot be the case, but we also hear other things that are not correct, because it is not even the term'mediation'. What has been presented today, from our point of view (legitimate or not), is not mediation, because one cannot mediate with a proposal that decides to keep out of protection and protection all trans persons or in transition. This is not a mediation or, at least, we do not want to mediate on this. [[Applause]] As President Romeo quoted the bill signed by Senator Ronzulli and Senator Salvini, saying that you were carrying this too, I would like to point out an aspect related to that plant. We have also told you, because it is not true that we have not read it; we have read it very well. That system is completely antithetical to that of the Zan bill, for a simple reason: it breaks down even the Mancino law and intervenes on a series of overlaps that even make the law that already exists uninterpretable. President, we have not invented anything in this draft law; the terms are all those already in our legal system and those used by the Constitutional Court in the judgments. Not only that: we have not inserted a prohibition of expression or limited freedom of opinion, because that law does not create anything new, but extends only the law of Mancino. Then tell us if the problem is the Mancino law; if you do not want the Mancino law, that is the theme, but it is another topic. [[Applause]] Mr President, we are moving forward, convinced that a certain date can enable this branch of Parliament to exercise its right, by fulfilling its legislative work, with transparency, before everyone, without bringing the Government into play. Honestly, the latter, among other things, has already replied, saying that it is out of these issues. He also answered Senator Alfieri's question here in this House when he was asked what his position was with respect to that note that came out in a certain way and made public. The information and positions on the part of the government seem very clear to me; this is about Parliament, it is not about old majorities and new majorities. It has to do with the will to give this country a law that this country does not have: to extend the protections of people who today, for those protections that they do not have, risk their lives. So, President, we go on asking. [[Comments]] Oh, they don't risk it? You see, ma'am, aren't you at risk? [[Applause]] It is clear that the problem does not exist for you, but for us it does; for this reason there is a need for a law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u57	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I speak very quickly, so there is no need to add so many words to those already spent. As we have said, the bill we are talking about, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies (I would like to remind you), has been here in the Senate for seven or eight months (depending on how we calculate them). What are we asking anyway? We are simply asking to arrive at a certain date for the debate in this House, which seems appropriate to us, given the long time that has elapsed in the course of the process and in the analysis of the text in the Commission. Maybe we could make a parallelism with the Odyssey: we don't understand who Ulysses is, who are the proci and who is Penelope because it seems to me that here he sews and constantly and continuously dissects the canvas, without ever wanting to get to the point. So, we need to figure out what we all need to do. That then the liberal forces say that this bill intervenes on rights, well, I say that they more than all should marry the rights of people. Because this is what we are talking about: people's rights. Someone has spoken about schools: it has nothing to do with it, school autonomy is free to decide what to do, otherwise we also change the order, which we should know about, even if in this House it seems to me that it is not well known. Someone talked about the family, and even in this case you don't understand what the family has to do with it. Do we want to remember Article 7 of the Constitution when it talks about relations between the State and the Church? I remember the liberal principle free Church in free state. I mean, there's a whole series of themes... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, it seems to me that our colleagues do not want to listen; they are obviously more interested in propaganda because it is said here that it is an ideological opposition. I want to know who in this House is talking about ideology. Here we are talking about rights and those who do not recognize the rights of people seem to me to be much more ideological than those who want to recognize them. [[Applause]] Otherwise you play the three cards and it is absolutely not possible. The government? The Government has nothing to do with this; it is an entirely parliamentary matter. All you want to do is get to a point by asking for the bill to be scheduled. Yet, it seems to me that we do not want to get to this point, so there is no other solution. If then, as we all hope, the debate in the Commission will be animated and profound without there being hundreds, thousands of amendments, with the aim of achieving a solution all together, well come, there is no problem discussing anything. However, we cannot hide the fact that people's rights cannot be protected. It's the right to have rights. In this sense, I am truly surprised that the liberal, conservative, reactionary forces - call them as you wish - do not understand what we are talking about, or perhaps they understand it well and are making a real contrast in that case for a mere flag. We must stop these positions and have the courage to say definitively that people's rights are above all else, and I stress the rights of people. I don't care if that person is a man, a woman, a shemale or anything else; are they people, do we want to forget it? Otherwise, what are we talking about? Simply as the Movimento 5 Star Group we think that the timetable of 13 July is appropriate and we hope that the Commission will work hard, vigorously and seriously to try to achieve a goal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u60	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to describe a picture that I think is quite different from what my colleagues have said in the last two speeches, namely Senator Malpezzi and Senator Cioffi. In fact, what they have described is a real film until today, in the sense that they told the meeting of the Presidents of the majority group, in which we discussed the calendarization of this measure and the merit of the same, as if today had not taken place. Therefore, obstructionism, everything that concerned two opposing blocs in this Parliament that did not want to discuss a measure that, according to us in Italy Viva, is absolutely indispensable, that is, a measure that protects against homotransphobic discrimination, was a real film to date. When we proposed a discussion table last May in order to find a solution that would protect this important measure from secret votes and probable sinking in the Chamber, then there really was this frontal confrontation between two coalitions that were not talked about, and therefore the only possible way was that Senator Malpezzi and Senator Cioffi described, namely to go to the Chamber and schedule because the other side does not want to discuss. Today, Mr President, a fact has happened which I think is important and which must be appreciated: President Ostellari, who has been repeatedly accused of using his office in order not to bring the measure to the Chamber and to prevent it from being discussed, has presented us with a proposal that is perfect for us, on which we want to say ours. It is a proposal that has brought the positions of the Senate very close together, and not only on the substance, President, but also on the method. President Ostellari, together with the president of the Lega Romeo Group, requested twenty-four hours to discuss the timing of this measure, so as not to vote on the calendar by dividing the majority on such an important subject. The 5 Star Movement, the Democratic Party and LEU said no at 24 hours to vote on the July 13 calendar. [[Applause]] The date was maintained by Ostellari's proposal. Twenty-four hours were requested to vote on the Wednesday calendar instead of Tuesday. It's been said no. President Ostellari made another proposal, i.e. he asked for a certain date that could be 20, 21 or 22. He asked the Offices to check the time taken to table the amendments and then set a certain date and vote on the timetable together. It could not have been on the 13th if we wanted the Commission to work, but on 20 or 21 July, so it was a matter of a week's delay. The Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars also said no to this proposal. So, Mr President, the film that is described, which speaks of an opposition that has remained unchanged over time and which leads a majority coalition to get a vote on calendarization, is old. Today, compared to a condition that has changed, it was decided to vote on the calendar, breaking the majority that supports the Government Dragons and endangering the law itself. I, the President, am not concerned that we can discuss this measure. We have to discuss this. I am concerned that as the debate in this House has been set up, the law proposed by Congressman Zan is in danger of never being adopted, under the blows of obstruction and secret voting. Today we hear a politician turned into an influencer saying that he does not sit in the Commission to get us to adopt a law that makes us move on to rights and that he has the numbers in the Assembly, and that we go to the Chamber crossing our fingers, not thinking that by deciding to entrust the lives of women and men, of people who say they want to protect "at the crossroads of fingers," he is mistaking our role as politicians, of those who exercise this role in public institutions. [[Applause]] I invite my colleagues in the Democratic Party to return to themselves, because I do not recognize them, President. I in that party have always recognized reformism; I have recognized dialogue, the construction of positive paths and not extremism, which will lead this bill to never be approved. [[Applause]] First of all, I call on my colleagues in the Democratic Party to sit down and reason quickly to pass this bill, which is necessary because today there are homotransphobic discriminations and those who suffer them are not protected by the law of the State. Mr President, that law is needed and, therefore, we cannot cross our fingers and see how it goes; we cannot afford it. We have a duty to adopt an advanced law in the field of rights. President, we will vote in favour of the timetable so that no one can say that Italy Viva is opposed to the debate on the Zan bill, but the invitation we make to the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars is to stop playing a role that is not its own - I am referring above all to the Democratic Party - to start discussing the substance and approving a law that serves this State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u63	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to say that the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of the timetable. [[Applause]] For the rest, I see it exactly as Mr Pharaoh. When I signed the letter addressed to her for the calendarization of the bill the times were completely different; there was a wall against the wall and you could not see a chance to arrive at a consensual solution. President Ostellari today, however, presented a valid proposal on which one can work, where there is no longer this distance between the left and the right and which with a little good will and less rigidity on some words could lead to a unified text. I think that if we want to do good to the people we want to protect, that is, the people who risk being affected by discrimination, we must give a signal of unity in the will of the Senate - for them it would be the greatest advantage - to protect them and the uniqueness of approach by finding a solution. On the contrary, we continue to wage war on absurd things because they are formalities: if there is discrimination for gender, obviously gender identity is also automatically protected by this article. Instead of discussing commas by doing more damage to the people we want to protect, we try to move forward by showing ourselves more flexible and accepting concepts that are not exactly to the last those we imagined, but that have the same consequences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u64	Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the last speeches there is a request from everyone to arrive at a common definition on such an important subject, in the sense of trying at least some sort of mediation. I would point out that, by collecting the speeches of all and with the exception of the Brothers of Italy Group, the difference is a week's shift. I call on everyone to consider why we should not say that in this House on such an important subject we are giving up dialogue for the difference of one week. After that, everyone will make their own decisions. I felt like I had to tell everyone. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposals to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, which, under Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure, will take place not by show of hands, but by electronic means, in order to facilitate the calculation of votes, as stated in Rule 114. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposed modification of the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, made by the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione and Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC Groups, who call for the discussion of the Zan bill to be scheduled the week following that of 13 July. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by the Fratelli d'Italia Group, which calls for the debate on the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences and for the draft law Zan not to be called into question. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. I will suspend the sitting at this point and immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 6.07 p.m. and resumed at 7.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u65	Rule 157, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, provides that, if the proposers of a motion request that the date of discussion of the same motion be established by the Senate, the Assembly, after hearing the Government and one of the proposers, decide, without discussion, by vote by show of hands, fixing, if necessary, the additional session pursuant to paragraph 7 of Rule 55. I do not think that is necessary. The proposal was made by Senator Crucioli, to whom I give the floor so that we can briefly explain the contents of the motion. We must not discuss its content here today, but the date on which it will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this motion which I think is urgent and I will explain the reasons why. First of all, the motion was tabled to ask the House to give instructions to the Government not to sign the transaction that would put an end to the administrative procedure of forfeiture of the motorway concession in charge of Aspi. If the signature of the transaction were to be made by the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, the effects of the purchase contract of the shares that Cassa deposits and loans is in the process of buying from Atlantia would also be perfected: these are the shares that Atlantia has in the Autostrade dealership for Italy. It is urgent, because to read the proposal for the purchase of the quotas from Cassa deposits and loans already accepted by Atlantia - it previews however the resolving condition connected to the signature of the transaction - it is evident that the signature should be placed in the next weeks, and however within a short term. Therefore, if the transaction were to be signed, the usefulness of the motion's discussion would be diminished. Therefore, in my opinion, the motion should be scheduled as soon as possible, so that this House can express itself on such an important subject as the one we are talking about, namely the consensus or not that Parliament, the representative of the Italian people, should give to an operation that would give 8 billion to the members of a society that has not been able to hold the Morandi bridge. On the other hand, I believe that the government should be told to continue in the process of forfeiture of the concession, which would bring back the motorway concession in public hands without spending a euro for renationalisation. These are the reasons why I ask you to be able to schedule the discussion of the motion today or tomorrow or in any case in the first possible days, also expected that the Senate is not working at full rate and, therefore, there are spaces for the discussion of such an important topic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u67	The government representative does not intend to intervene. Pursuant to Rule 157, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal made by Senator Crucioli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u68	I will announce that I will propose to the President of the Senate to regulate the late-session speeches, which are not provided for by our Rules of Procedure: while they were exceptional before, they have now become a habit. Personally, I would be of the opinion that I would not allow them except in exceptional cases, but today I will be able to speak to at least one Senator per Group who so requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u71	MOLLAME (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I think it is right to speak on the facts that happened yesterday morning. In the very first morning of yesterday, the Carabinieri and the DIA, coordinated by the prosecutor of the Republic, have removed several clans dedicated to the trafficking of cocaine. This happened in the Municipality of Partinico, unfortunately tormented in its most recent history. So the greatest praise goes to the work done by the Carabinieri, the DIA and the prosecutor who coordinated them. I intend, however, also to reject a stereotype, also reported by the press, which wanted to identify the country as a mafia, even recalling a masterpiece by Leonardo Sciascia, from which a film shot in this reality has been made. Partinico is also made up of many honest people and many workers who every morning raise the shutters of their activities and go to their farms that are the basis of the local economy. Partinico needs a ransom. Applause goes also to the work being done by the Commissioners' ternary. We hope, therefore, that we will be able to come out of the present period of political vacuum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u72	Senator Mollame, I associate myself with the praise addressed to the Forces of Order and the Carabinieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u75	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I shall try to bring to the interest of this House what the President of the Group has already said with regard to the Committee of Inquiry into the ecocomaphies of so-called red plasters and sludges. We should explain what we are talking about: the bicameral inquiry committee unanimously voted on the report to be discussed on 22 June last. What are we talking about? We are talking about processing residues that have been inserted into a former quarry for environmental restoration. The report states very clearly that the parameters which allowed the quarry to be restored have in fact been in practice always disregarded over the last fifteen years. And this comes from the analysis of the regional Tuscan ARPAT. The Province of Grosseto, the Municipality of Scarlino and the same Region have never prevented such a contribution from being blocked inside the quarry. Even in the two years 2015-2017, the Tuscany Region, with measures, has raised the parameters of some pollutants. In fact, what was polluting throughout Italy, in Tuscany, instead, is no longer polluting. In all this, I understand the lack of attention given by the House, but I am particularly addressing my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars who have the famous star of environmentalism. Go and see what is written in the report, which has been put aside and will not be discussed. We also asked today for his calendarization. It is written in the report that, for these reasons, the company producing the products has saved, in fifteen years, more than 250 million euros. I wonder what is going on in Tuscany, Mr President, and then I hope to go further. That is what the Tuscan Democratic Party does about the environment. You make the laws that can stay comfortable. To this we can also add what happened with the sludge that comes from the processing of tanneries water, buried under the roads. Also in this regard an amendment has passed, that the former president of the Tuscany Region Giani has made to approve claiming not to have noticed. Today we are facing, another time, a further scandal that involves the left and the Democratic Party in Tuscany; scandal that has as protagonists - I say it in a very clear way - the former president of the Marras Province, at the competent time and that has done absolutely nothing to block the environmental disaster of the landfill; then became advisor in 2015 and currently city council member to the productive activities and, since 2015, the Tuscany region - by chance - raises the parameters of pollution. Therefore, this report must come to this House and the whole issue must be clarified, especially for the citizens and workers of that area. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u78	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, I have asked for the floor because I intend to bring to the attention of this House yet another event which took place in the port of Genoa. In recent days, in fact, the genoese ports have signaled that for the umpteenth time in the port of Genoa there has been a transit of weapons destined to theaters of war; in particular, in this case, it is a ship of Saudi Arabia that carried twelve certified containers of weapons and bombs for the Saudi army, that it will probably use it in the civil war in Yemen. Yet in Italy there is a law that also prevents the transit of armaments to war theatres or to countries that do not respect international conventions and human rights. I wonder, therefore, why the authorities did not intervene despite this transit of weapons was known and reported. In this connection, I would like to announce that I will present a question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u79	Senator, as you yourself have said, the matter is a matter for questioning and, if you will allow me, I will allow myself to sign the above-mentioned inspection union document.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u82	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, this end-of-session speech is very special because it deals with someone who is no longer there. It is Alvise Aguti, a person who worked as my collaborator and who was also an employee of the Senate, even on a fixed-term basis because he worked in the special secretariat of the President of the Budget Committee. Alvise was a very shy person and in fact he would never have appreciated my speech in this House to remember him, but in my opinion it is necessary because Alvise left so much in each of us with his calmness, his intelligence and his being close to everyone. We must remember the fact that Alvise was always available for whatever request had come from any citizen in difficulty. It has helped us greatly in compensating the citizens affected by the crisis of the four banks, and then continuing with the Savings Compensation Fund; it has enabled us to find 1.5 billion to compensate all these savers and we have done a very large job with him. That's all I'm gonna say. He was a very intelligent and at the same time very shy person, as I said before. Thank you all. It's not just us who lose Alvise, it's the Senate, it's really all the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u83	Thank you, Senator Pesco, and in view of the exceptional nature of the subject, I join you in your condolences.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u86	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, what happened to Santa Maria Capua Vetere is incredible. There seems to be another world, the prison world, so close and so far from human rights. Is it possible that such atrocities are consumed in an eminently stately space and at the hands of men of the State? I feel dismay and dismay at such serious events, which have led to the issuance of 52 precautionary measures for prison police officers and officials of the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP). Someone would have had an anal inspection with a baton, someone else would have been massacred and even urinated on him as an extreme act of humiliation. In various circumstances I have also raised the need to set up a Commission of inquiry into the condition of prisons, which is unfortunately a negative result. I visited the prisons and heard from the prisoners the squalor of what they are forced to suffer, beyond any reasonableness. I would also add that, if this case is bouncing to public attention, it is because the cameras distractedly - as some say - had been left open. But a further clarification needs to be made: I find it disgusting to politically exploit the crime of torture, on which there are now constant mobilizations, even with the hypothesis of referendums close to the White Semester and almost two years after the end of the legislature. And who knows why, I wonder, when the same people, who have lived this Palace for decades, have done nothing, except aggravate the prison situation. They now assign responsibility to former Minister Bonafede and former Undersecretary Ferraresi. If anything, their timely intervention is known to ascertain the facts, in full compliance with the rules and their prerogatives. As a citizen, as a parliamentary and senator of the Movimento 5 Stars, I express my solidarity with prisoners who are victims of violence and their families. The rights of citizens do not touch and do not touch the rights of detained citizens, of which the state should first ensure that they are respected. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-342.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, July 7, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.46 p.m.)
