ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6900	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I am opening the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 12 delegates present at the session, four from the Bosniak order, four from the order of the Croatian and four from the Serb people; Mr Ivanić, Rajić and Neimarlija are justly absent. For the 41st session, I suggest you agree 1. The request of the National College to consider the Bill on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2010, submitted by House of Representatives by Act No 02-02-4-12009 of 30. 12. In 2009, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122, and in relation to Article 123(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Any changes and additions? There isn't. I find that the agenda has been adopted. And we're going to point one. 2 Ad. 1. Nationals' College's request to discuss Budget Law on BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6903	Since, therefore, I am reading, by the urgent procedure we are passing this law, I just want to tell you, since the situation is as it is, because the predstavnički of Representatives has recently adopted this, the amendments that have been introduced to us, because the promoter means the House of Representatives, the amendments that have been introduced and the amendments that have been implemented in the text of the Bill on Budget is such that it has now been completed and amended, but they have not succeeded from the Ministry of Finance to copy it into the required number of copies, 15, so we have received three languages, three copies, each club by one, I ask that it is not now controversial, because otherwise, if we wait to be in 15 copies of such enormous material, we will wait until we know how long. So, it's only unusual in this situation, but it's obvious that, I've been looking at what I've seen, all the amendments that have been tabled by the House of Representatives have already been introduced into the draft budget law, so I think we have no reason to delay this procedure. Well, I had a need to say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6904	Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6905	Well, we're not going to get into these details. ... As we agreed, I want to see, I also see in the House of Representatives' Report, here we are through our discussions at the previous session on the review report, because we cannot now enter into the specifics, 11 institutions that we voted on to reduce the costs of getting the vehicle, fuel and representation, that we, as well as the House of Representatives, will adopt this conclusion on this budget, which will, of course, take account of the 10% for these, how many, 14 institutions, now through the adoption of this budget and that the Office for Audit is tasked to monitor this matter through the implementation of the revision, of course, and the Ministry of Finance. So, we're free of that conclusion at the last session if we don't now confirm it through the budget in the sense that it's being implemented for this budget in 2010.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6906	Is anyone else answering for word? If no one is answering for a word, we first vote whether the draft law on the budget of the BiH institutions for 2010 will be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's "for"? Is anyone “against”? One vote “against”. “Sustained”? Niko. ... It has been adopted that we will consider the Proposal for a Law on Budget by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure, with one vote “against” and no votes “maintained”. Now we're voting on the Budget Law proposal. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? If it doesn't, it's already said in a certain way now. We are voting on the draft law on the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2010. Who's "for"? Is anyone “against”? One vote “against”. “Sustained”? There isn't. So 11 votes "yes", one vote "against", without "abstained". I find that the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2010 has been adopted. We have this conclusion from Mr. Rančić... that's actually the conclusion of this home from the previous session. Can we also adopt this conclusion? Who's "for"? Is there anyone here? This is unanimous, as far as I can tell. There is no one “against”. “Sustained”? 4 I move to the 2nd item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill itself. You received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission, there was no amendment. The Commission has accepted the text of the bill and proposes its adoption to the House of Peoples. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Dušanki Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6908	No, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-1.u6909	There's no need. I'm opening a debate. If no one's answering for a hearing, I'll put it to the vote of the bill. Who's "for"? Is anyone “against”? There isn't. “Sustained”? There isn't. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees of BiH was unanimously adopted. And this is how we ended the 41st session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Happy New Year and religious holidays religious to all. The seat's finished at 4:25.
