ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4691	I ask the MPs to take their seats... Ladies and gentlemen, we'll begin work. I would like to welcome all fellow representatives, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished two ministers who are monitoring today's work, media representatives and opening the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Just to inform you that the House of Nations sessions are attended by all MPs and envoys from all three clubs of the House of Peoples. Before I move to the agenda, I will take this opportunity and in one official way, therefore, wish a lot of success to the newly elected president, so for the second time, for the third time, I no longer know what the mandate is, and I would like to congratulate Mr Tihić on his election at the SDA Congress for President of the Party of Democratic Action and wish you a lot of success in his work. For the session, the 30th session of the House of Peoples, you've been given the agenda, let me read it. 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 29th session of the House of Nations; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the draft law on border control under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorist activities under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 7. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, shortened procedure; 2 8. A proposal for a bill on excise duties for BiH (first reading) – a proposal by the Council of Ministers for BiH, also a shortened procedure. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. But I still ask if anyone needs a word. I see there is no, so if there is no, we believe that this agenda has been adopted, because, in accordance with Article 60 of our Rules of Procedure, there is no discussion on the agreed agenda. But before we go to the agenda, and before we consider the points that we have now adopted, I would like to inform you about why we called the 30th session today, and we agreed to have a session in the College earlier on Thursday. You probably know we're 5. This 6th year, the Council of Ministers issued a memo requesting the call for a session at which we would adopt four drafts of the law under points 3, 4, 5 and 6 on the agenda, which are on the list of conditions and represent the obligation of BiH from the Roadmap to liberalise the visa regime. Furthermore, the proposals of the 7th and 8th points that we are considering today under the shortened procedure have also been put on the agenda because of the urgency of the need to adopt these laws. I would like to point out to you that the Proposal of the Taxation Act, that is, point 8, will be discussed Thursday at the 31st session of the House of Peoples, in the second reading. So, the amendment phase for the above... the draft law begins after the end of this session and lasts until the beginning of the next session, i.e. by Thursday 18 June 2009. Here, after these brief notes, we move to the 1st point of the agenda, it's Ad. 1. Answers to MPs' questions and new questions...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4694	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I want to say that I am not satisfied with the answer I received, because I did not get an explicit answer to the question I asked. And that specifically applies in section 2, which says: 'When 3 will the archives, records and other documents of former entity armies led in the period of 4. 4. 1992 to 31. 12. In 2005 submit to the entity archives from which they encourage conservation and use, in accordance with the Law on Archival Construction?' So this answer I got is not answering the question, and in that sense in the extension I'm going to ask a new question that concerns this thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4695	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4696	Thank you very much. I'll take this question first, to remind you, it's about proving excessive imports of beer. I received one answer in which there were no points 2.3, 2.4, and 2.5. Now I get why it was like that. Was it an accident for some other reason, I don't know, but now I've got those answers, so I just want to tell you what's in that subpoint. So that point 2.3, which was not there: the analysis of the data provided by the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate found that the quantity imports of beer in 2007, i.e. the average of two or three years ago were higher by 27%, the financial imports were higher by 21%. Why am I reading this? Because according to the WTO, when it is proven that imports in that year are higher by 20% to 25% than in the previous three, then unilateral safeguard measures are introduced. And here it stands here in point 2.1, which was also there to be excessive imports in the case of imports in the current, or in the previous three years expressed by quantitative units by 25%. So, we have proven, the only relevant organisation or body that can give it is the indirect tax administration, they said that the imports were greater by 27%. Now the Ministry has been having problems, so the data is different from that. Here's what we just delivered to the Ministry, and I hope this will be... the end of that proof. So, I'm happy with the answer here. And this second question of mine, if you remember, was about water and this water rule, natural spring and natural mineral and stone waters. And... we're told that the Management Board of the Food Safety Agency is absolutely cut off by any adoption of any regulation. They haven't met for over a year and despite all the attempts of the silent system, nothing. Then I asked for the names of the members of that Management Board and whether they had received compensation for working on the Management Board. Unfortunately, I got it and I'm happy with it, but in this year they didn't get the fees, so I don't even know what to say. I beg, so on Friday... they were all producers, representatives of the Food Agency, and I was to come and help do that thing. And every member has been agreed in detail, two regulations: 'The Rules of Procedure on Natural and Source and Natural Mineral Waters and the 'Table Waters Rules'. And now it's all over, now all it takes is for the board of directors to sit down and make it apologise for it to come. Now, how are they gonna call this board of directors when no one can call them alive? And that's why I urge, Minister, that you, with your authority, influence it, because the agreement is to come to the Council of Ministers on 30 June, to sort of collect them and vote it. Otherwise, it really doesn't make sense. 4 There you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4697	Thank you very much. All your problems and dilemmas will be given a new question to the Council of Ministers, we have an scheduled session on July 14th MPs are asking the ministers accordingly. We'll solve that problem too, I believe, in a democratic way. Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Professor Hilmo Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4698	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I do not think I am satisfied with the answer but must express one disdain, given the character of the answer I have received. Because I have long been an MP, and I have not been in this assembly so far in a situation that in such a formal way, however, whether or not deliberately belittled as it was done with the answer I received from the RS Minister of Justice on a very clear question that I have asked, which came amid the unsatisfactory answer to the previously asked question. For the first time, I asked the question: When will Fata Orlović of Konjević Polje finally begin to enjoy the elementary human rights guaranteed both by the Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by all European conventions? When will her abuse stop, when will she, when will her property return, when will she be able to enjoy her garden freely? And, among other things, when and when the harassment of Fata Orlović will cease, I cited as an example of this harassment the fact that she was convicted in some court, at some trial, to say, at the Court of Justice in Bijeljina. And that one question, therefore, from position, rights, protection of human rights and everything else, Fate Orlović, was directed by the RS minister of justice among other things. I received an answer that at the senior court instance of the RS, it was an examination of the trial of Fati Orlović, which was in Bijeljina, which she was not even invited to, or her representative, in which she was convicted without her presence and that this minister of justice could not answer anything until the higher court hearing... resolved the court dispute, because this would mean meddling in the work of the court. Of course, my question was not how the court will behave against the trial of Fati Orlović, but when Fati Orlović will return to her property, when she will be able to enjoy her garden freely. So for the second time, I asked that question. When Fata Orlović will finally be able to enjoy the return of property from Konjević Polje and will be able to enjoy the elemental human right of free use of her garden. Instead of answering this second question, I got the answer that you saw that my question on the content is identical to the first question, which is absolutely incorrect, and that I am reciprocated by the answer that I first received and which was also completely inadequate, completely inappropriate. And so this answer not only does not satisfy me but I absolutely reject it, in a manner of demeaning myself as an MP and me as a person. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4699	Thank you very much. Before we move on to questions, I would only express my satisfaction that we are being followed today by a third of the ministers from the Council of Ministers: in addition to Minister Nović and Minister Zirojević, Mr Čolak, whom I welcome, has come. We'll move on to new questions. Mrs. Majkić's first run for office. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4700	So this is a question that was offered by the bad answer that I got on the previous one. So my question was addressed to the BiH defence minister. So, this conclusion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of the 18th. 1. In 2007, the RS archive was to take over the archives of the former RS Ministry of Defence and the RS Army, which stemmed from the 1992 period, according to a similar solution in the Federation of BiH. - 2007 which will not serve the needs of the BiH Armed Forces. How could this not be done to date because of the different interpretation of the provisions of the Final Available Agreement in all rights and obligations on movable property which will continue to serve for defence purposes, please the Ministry of Defence to reply to me: 'When will the archive be made available to the RS Archives?' Explanation: Conclusion of Federation Government No 396/2006. of 27. Seven. In 2006, the archives of the BiH Federation and the former Federation of BiH archives and archives were taken over by the BiH Federation Archive. The decision to take up immovable and mobile assets, archives and other documentation by the former Federation Ministry of Defence of 2005 informed the Federation government. It is necessary that the BiH Ministry of Defence, without discrimination, resolves the issue of archives in both entities, which has not been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4701	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. He joined our work and Minister Halilović, whom I welcome. Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4702	A General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH was signed 13 years and 6 months ago. [[no microphone turned on]] Article 2 Annex IV and Article 1. Anexa VII of the BiH Agreement and both entities should ensure internationally recognised rights and freedoms for all persons in BiH, that all persons are free from discrimination on any basis, such as sex, race, color, language, religion, political and other opinion, national and social origin, association with the national minority, ownership, birth or other status, and that all persons who have escaped and displaced have the right to return freely to their homes and have the right to return to property. 6 My question is: "When will the authorities of the RS provide internationally recognised rights and freedoms for Fata Orlović of Konjević Polje, end discrimination against this person because she is a Bošnjanka and Muslim, allow her to return to her own home and return her property?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4703	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. Anyone else want to ask a question? I'm also closing this agenda. We're going to point two, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 29th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the minutes on the 29th session. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 29th session of the House of Peoples. Point 3 is Ad. 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Arms and Military Equipment under the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4706	So today we have a law that needs to be adopted urgently, an example of the law so that we should not work in the future. A few words about the begraund of the law itself. 7 So the first proposal of this law came to parliamentary procedure 8. 4.2008, today it's 15. Six. 2009 So, after more than a year here I have the same law with different contents in front of me and a special law that passed the agreement between the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, in fact passed... a normal procedure that should have passed a year ago. What exactly happened in the meantime? What we've been looking for and what we've lost for a year has been brought into line. The new bill also has 21 members as well as the old one. Nine members have been amended in relation to the previous proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment. So the rest is unchanged 12. And we could have done it all a year ago and we could have ended it all and been more successful and the path of this country probably closer to visa-free regime than it is at this point. So, this law was not rejected by RS representatives because, as some MPs like to say in the House of Representatives..., Srbin want to arm themselves, but to not transfer another jurisdiction from RS, which on our part could not be accepted. There, and now after so much time lost, Minister Sadović eventually accepted an agreement for his position which was not so categorical,... because if he had accepted only two amendments that we proposed to this law would have been adopted a year ago. So this is an example of the law and of the example and the way this Parliamentary Assembly should never work again. Inad politics was never good for us, it was good for us, it was going to meet the citizens of this country to stop standing in front of foreign embassies as soon as possible. We have a duty to make it possible for them. And Minister Sadović and the like who stand as a defense for that entry and the loss of that visa regime that makes our life so much worse would have to be much more aware when they make these decisions. So, the Serb people's delegates' club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4707	Thank you very much. I didn't want to interrupt my dear colleague, we're discussing the procedure, not this bill. Mr. Šarab, if you had the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4708	Dear and esteemed colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, therefore, Mrs. Majkić mostly said exactly what I wanted to say, in that part I will not repeat myself. And that is that... most of these laws came into parliamentary procedure on April 8th last year and that is the big 14 months of BiH's stalemate on the European path. And finally, I personally think that through one compromise of the ruling coalition, we have received these laws that will enable what has been waiting here for a long time. My general remark, and related to Article 122, is that 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4709	Wait a minute. I apologize to my distinguished colleague, but we are now discussing the procedure, whether or not we will accept a debate on the bill by haste procedure. So, the procedure is, we won't, I'll open the debate on the bill, and you'll be able to tell us about the details.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4710	I was just about to speak, Mr. Chairman, so I'm asking you not to interrupt me in the future, because it seems to be becoming a practice for you lately.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4711	No, we just respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4712	Well, just practice when it comes to me, but well, that's your business. So I don't accept these procedures for one basic reason why it's not properly explained what the reasons for the emergency procedure are. This one sentence that stands in the light of this law at the very beginning of its text is not something that tells us that these laws should be considered by emergency procedure, because it is not correct. So, the reasons that these laws are being considered by emergency procedure given the BiH Road map are not correct, it has been known for a year. So, this argument does not stand and I precisely reason why I cannot accept that these laws are being considered by emergency procedure, but of course I will give my support to these legal... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4713	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Please be nice, so we'll vote on the procedure. So, are we to consider this law as referred to in Article 122 without amendment. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? "Contained"? I agree that with one vote "abstained", with 14 votes we have accepted the procedure of a hasty... procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. We've already heard one discussion from Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rajić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4714	The essence of the law, so the change of its matter. [[no microphone turned on]] I would also like for my own sake, but also for the public's sake, not to go over one issue that has been many times the subject of various political debates, media comments. Turns out we lost 14 months and we don't know why we lost 14 months. Fourteen months for a country like BiH in resolving one of the vital issues such as visa-free regimes is an extremely long time and these are terrible losses. What I can confidently say, without the intention of classifying ourselves in such a way, is that Croatian representatives were not brakers in any other home. Thus, the battle was fought on the famous matrix of Sarajevo – Banja Luka or vice versa. I want to know as an agent: where was the problem and why we lost 14 months and who finally had to give in? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4715	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4716	And why did he give in if he gave in?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4717	Mr. Ljubičić, then Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4718	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I only reported for one reason. With one of my short discussions, I would just like to join Mrs Dušanka Majkić's discussion, and when it comes to procedures and proposals, and not to talk about adoption now, it means this and all the future laws that are in our obligation in the coming period, not only when it comes to visa liberalisation but also about other conditions set before BiH. I think that's one way to go, and I think we should turn a little leaf right in the legislator phase. And I think that there was one major brake in the previous period, so where it comes to Parliament when the debate opens and then we come into a situation where we open the issue of respect and... one basic principle of respect for the existing constitution in which there are defined competences, means both BiH and entities. If it worked out in this example, it means that with these consultations one is made and a bill is done which I believe will get support today, I think that's exactly the answer in the way we should keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4719	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4720	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, distinguished guests, since we have adopted a procedure concerning this law on individual solutions, is not much worth speaking about since there is no, whether, to submit amendments and correct individual solutions in certain members. But I want to say two things that were said in the discussions of my colleague Majkić, which are not true. So the first thing she said was that it was a transfer of competence from entity to BiH state. That's just not true. When you look at the whole Dayton Agreement, you will see whose jurisdiction it was, and it is also beautifully written in the light of this law, and in Chapter II, where there are reasons for the adoption of this law, which reads: 'In order to increase the overall security in BiH in meeting the obligations of BiH', so BiH regarding its international legal subjectivity, what is its matter and jurisdiction under the Constitution, and by no means local authorities, 'provided from the documents to the parties to the amendments 24th and 25th, and the need to transfer so far the powers relating to the control of the movement of arms and military equipment from EUFOR to the institutions of BiH, is decided to enter into the procedure for the adoption of this law.' So, it is about transferring competence from EUFOR to BiH, it stands nicely in the light of this law. Another thing that is not true: it has been shown that someone wrote a certain text of law with their own free will, and then someone disagreed with it for those reasons. And in previous law concerning its development, they participated except the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence, the Directorate for European Integration, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Border Police, the entity, federal police, the Brcko District, the international institutions EUPM, EUFOR, NATO, OSCE, UNDP, OHR, gave consent to the content of the law that was in the procedure. And I don't know what was the reason that, compared to the previous time, it was about the law that was in the procedure of this one being done, is it, uh, certain repairs. So no one was doing the law on their own, but with domestic institutions... there were also international institutions present. And finally, in the process of passing one law when the resolution ministry passed laws, so do it and propose it, that law passed the procedure prescribed by the Council of Ministers, they voted on it, whether, the ministers from both the other and the third people, and there was no problem. So someone later for his known reasons this many months broke the law on the competent commission and on the... Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4721	First replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4722	I don't, I've already... several times... on this subject and I really don't have the strength anymore. But just one sentence to say, colleague Rančić, that as you said earlier, this law would remain in the same text and nothing would change. This law has been amended almost 50% of the members. So I remind you it's not as harmless as you think. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4723	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4724	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4725	It's a replica on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4726	Answer: yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4727	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4728	So, dear colleague Majkić didn't deny anything, she didn't replicate anything, everything I said stood up, and I didn't make things up, I read the thing from the explanation. I didn't make it up or say anything, it's nice... it says there it's a transfer of competence from EUFOR to BiH institutions. I didn't make it up, let the representatives and our ministries and BiH institutions and international officials deny that they participated in the drafting of the previous law and gave their consent. And third, let the ministers and the Council of Ministers deny that they voted for the previous law and that he had passed the procedure, it is not the private law of a minister. No minister of any people, from any nation, can therefore send his bill to Parliament, he must pass the procedure through the Council of Ministers, and that law has passed the procedure. So, these things stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4729	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mrs. Majkić gave up further replicas. Mr. Zno, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4730	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to suggest that if we have already spoken about the procedure... according to our 122nd article, that if we have needs and if we change clearly there is nothing we can do, talk about the law, talk about the law. And the story outside the law, I, it's not bad that it opened up to us to set an example so that we shouldn't work, first of all, so we don't have to coordinate a job that is unfortunately coordinated as coordinated with this law. Because personally these 16 or 14 months as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, I was under fire when it came to this law. On the other hand, he was our need. Now we've skipped everything and realized that this is a condition from the map of the road and it's good, so it's a condition and it's good, so that condition came, here, right in front of the 12 closed doors. So it's not far away from being closed doors and we have to do it, but I must say that this law was both the last obligation or the last jurisdiction of the international forces in BiH. And I think it was absolutely, if neither, sufficient reason to have this law for at least 12 months in BiH. All the other stories and now these stories of jurisdiction over the amendments and additions to this law, about the different stages that he is going through in the Committee on Defence and Security, Returns, or transcripts with Parliament, etc., etc., I would leave it for another story. I accept absolutely this finding of my colleague Rajić and she is absolutely in place. We can also open that topic, a dilemma that is, after all, and I will say, constitutional character, but I don't think we really have any needs right now, and I urge you to make a statement about this law and to overcome all the outwittings about what's ahead of us and how clearly we're all going to raise this green card here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4731	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. The next debater is Mr. Tihić. One replica, Mr. Tihić will stop. You can make a deal. Replica, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4732	I would like not to debate Mr. Zrn but to the fact that I asked a clear question to find out in this house and to let the public know what was going on and who made the concession and what concession to have the law today. I said that the other night on the show, where we got the political will, it's no longer a dispute. I'm curious about who's been stopping and why and what's changed so that we can do it today. I didn't get that answer and I don't want to go over the facts. I would like to point out that the legislator, to say what has been changed in relation to the text we had 14 months ago, in a fundamental sense, because I really see this as a political game or political enlightenment. So, I'm not satisfied with these arguments that I heard, on the one hand by Mrs. Majkić, on the other hand by Mr. Rančić, because from that I didn't realize anything, and 14 months of loss in this country, in this situation! I don't want to be a participant, at least one millimetre or one millimicron of responsibility, because I didn't take part in that braking. There, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4733	Thank you very much. Maybe you'll get part of the answer from Mr. Tihić's discussion. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4734	Dear delegates, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think that the controversy of responsibility would be opened because of the delay in the adoption of these laws, but I also can't keep my mouth shut when we already have several, in my opinion, baseless accusations against Minister Sadović when it comes to the delay of these laws. The fact is that both these and other laws were proposed by the Council of Ministers, not Minister Sadović. The fact is that other ministers from the Council of Ministers participated in the proposal for these laws, and the fact is that these laws have been stopped by entity voting from MPs and delegates from RS. It's facts, you know. Who's here now as much as guilty on the side of the Council of Ministers, or it's about the abuse of entity voting, I wouldn't want to judge here, and I think it's hard for us to agree on that. I would also like to comment on Mr Rajić's claim that there is a problem in the conflict between Sarajevo and Banja Luka. Just as the delegates of the Croatian people have always supported these laws in the past 14 months, so have the delegates of the Bosniak people. Therefore, there is no conflict between Banja Luka and Sarajevo. So this is about something else, and I wouldn't want to mention it, because it would open up a wide discussion. Therefore, as far as Mr Sadović is now guilty, how wrong is the Council of Ministers, how many other ministers, how many Mrs. Majkić, how many, I don't know you, other MPs, etc., should not talk about it. I suggest what Mr. Zno said - that we adopt both this and the next law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4735	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. And I ask you to approach the plea. Who is "for" this bill? Please make a statement. So, I agree that, unanimously, with 14 present representatives, we have passed the Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment. Before we move to the next point, point 4, just to find out that our work is being monitored by the distinguished Minister Sadović, whom I also welcome. Point 4 is: Ad. 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples Let me just let you know that the House of Representatives and this law have been passed by haste. If we accept an emergency procedure, the amendments don't invest. 14 I am opening a debate on the procedure. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. And I ask you to approach the plea, will we accept this law by haste, debate by haste? So 14 “for. ” Does anyone have “against ”? ‘Contained’ one. So we accepted the procedure. I'd like to beg, and now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4737	So we have one easier job in this section, 21. The 5th conference, held by the ministry, was held by the minister of justice, in order to comply with the provisions of the new Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Since the text of the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters has been adopted, proposals and suggestions from the RS, we believe that all the conditions are met and that such a text of the law can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4738	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters. Who's "for"? I understand that we have unanimously accepted the bill with 15 votes. So we adopted the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Point 5 is Ad. 5. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the draft law on border control under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples It also announced that the House of Representatives adopted this law by a hasty procedure. If we accept the procedure, there are no amendments. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Anybody want a word? 15 I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of motion for the requested procedure. Who's "for"? I find that with 14 votes "yes",... one "restricted" vote, we have accepted the procedure under the hasty procedure of the bill's proposal under point 5. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4740	We also have one law that's 23. 4. 2008 released for the first time in parliamentary procedure. The new draft law on border control of 65 members has 15 changed, so 50 members remain unchanged. We still have many proposals from the International Organisation for Democratic Control of Armed Forces from Switzerland, so on. DICAF, which has suggested that this law has changed even in a number of members in order to comply with European directives, but here we have harmonised those 15 that were essential for us from the RS to adopt the law, but will have to work on it further in order to comply with European requirements and therefore, since this is one of the laws that is important for the liberalisation of the visa regime, I propose that we also adopt this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4741	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who is "for" this bill? I agree that we unanimously passed the Border Control Act. Point 6 is: Ad. Six. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples Notice that the House of Representatives has adopted this law by a hasty procedure. If we accept the procedure, there won't be any amendments, and I'm opening a debate on the procedure. 16 Does Anyone Want a Word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on a plea, therefore, to accept the requested procedure of the Council of Ministers. Who's "for"? I agree that, unanimously with 14 votes and one "abstained" voice... we have accepted the procedure by a hasty procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who's "for"? I also agree that we have unanimously adopted the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. Moving to point 7, that's "Ad." Seven. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have before us a legal text which we also discussed several days ago at a session of the Constitutional Commission and established certain things about this law. I want to say first that this law is written in an extremely difficult legal language which tomorrow, I am convinced, if it stays like this, and the good part will remain, of course, if through the amendment phase certain things are not dressed, that they will represent and lead to a lot of problems in practice in its application and in its realization. Article 2 which, in my opinion, is a key member in this whole law that defines what discrimination is has 124 words. So that's incomprehensible. And that's why I think because of this definition, and 17 and because of a series of definitions later in this text itself, that we're going to have a very, very big problem when we apply it. And of course, I want to say one thing that was extremely relevant last week. Immediately after this law appeared, a letter of the BiH Interreligious Council appeared, which clearly stated its opposition to this law only because the text of this law, and immediately to say that I support what the Interreligious Council has written because of the moral principles on which these high church dignitaries were based and because it is in spirit with our tradition, and I would now really want the people of the Ministry, since they are familiar with this, to give one comment and one vision of what was given by the Interreligious Council, of course, if possible, since this position would determine my personal relationship with this legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4745	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. So we have a reported Mr. Koprivica who felt the need to say that he's the vice president of the committee, say a few words, and then Mr. Zrna. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4746	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present fellow delegates, as well as gentlemen from the Council of Ministers and others present today's session. What I'm trying to say about the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination is a few sentences. You know that some less than a year ago, the idea of passing this law appeared for the first time, that on the proposal of certain NGOs, primarily the Helsinki Committee of BiH and others, was a proposal to pass this law on the prohibition of discrimination, since it is one of the conditions for the visa-free regime of BiH. We have also discussed on the Commission several occasions the bill and the one that finally came in the light of the proposal by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights. What I want to say under this law is this story that Mr. Šaraba also mentioned in the opening statement the views of individual NGOs and organizations, that is, the Interreligious Council. I think that in one part of the interpretation of certain provisions of this law, although this is on the agenda of first reading, the law itself, means I wouldn't even comment on it, but just to say that this is one general regulation, in my opinion, it is a framework general regulation that as such is not a special regulation governing certain areas of life in BiH. First of all, I would not even interpret it as an interpretation of certain NGOs spoken of by Slobodan for a maločas. So by special regulations, and above all by family legislation and by both entities, these areas are particularly regulated. So the provision of a special regulation is a lex specialis in application. It means automatically, which means that this special regulation applies primarily in the application process. This law effectively prohibits all aspects of 18 discrimination in Article 2. And yet, in some of his provisions in the final part, in transitional and final provisions, it is said in Article 24, that all other regulations in BiH must comply with this law. This would practically mean that all other regulations, concerning all types of discrimination, would have to be brought into line with this law. But here we are going to have an amendment phase, and I think we're going to have a chance to make that clear. Give us, of course, a chance for all of us to think that the provisions that have been set aside are unnecessary for us to change them by amendment. I think that this law can be one good basis and that, after adoption, today's adoption in the first reading, that within 15 days, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, appropriate amendments are put in place, and I would like to hear this particular attitude and the opinion of the Mr of the Ministry of Human Rights, given that they were included and that they have drawn up a proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4747	Thank you very much. We won't deny a wish here by the present resolution minister to address the House, but I have more now, we'll exhaust the discussion, so before we make a statement, if you agree, let's hear the Secretary of Justice. So, the word is Mr. Zrno, so Mr. Rajić, I don't know if there are any more reported. There's three more, four, slow, I'll lay it down, the speed of your handlifting. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4748	Thank you very much. I didn't prepare for a big debate today, because I think we're in first reading today, so today we're talking about the principles of the law. And the principles of the law should be supported. However, here is the discussion already, and it is clear that this law has already aroused the spirits in BiH, that it has caused enormous attention, here has already been mentioned several times by the Interreligious Council, by the fact that the Interreligious Council went with a special statement in the context of the adoption of this law, i.e. in the context of what this law contains. I just wanted to say a few words about what it is and the dilemma when it comes to this law. It seems to me that we are all, in a similar way, considering both the themes and the dilemmas of this law and they are indeed many. Generally, by looking at, or reading the title of this law, where the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination stands, I don't think in a dream anyone will be against the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, because the foundations of modern democracy, worldly, really rest exactly... this is the fundamental law of modern democracy, based on the prohibition of every form and every form of discrimination. I wouldn't put us in a place that, come on, something archaic, something specific, something like this or something. However, the values found in this law are indeed for a thorough discussion, a thorough conversation, an agreement, and, in the end, for 19 changes. Because here, clearly, there is, already in society, it is already shown in society, there is a dilemma. The dilemma, which is a general dilemma first, because we can talk about social morality, but we must also not forget the personal dilemma, because we all personally inherit certain moral norms, and you will forgive, this law really rests on morals, or should rest on morals and on every individual, but also on society as a whole. So, what is the morality on which the proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination is based? And that's what I think we should discuss thoroughly. We who are here, at least personally when I'm talking about it, are personally the heritage of certain traditional moral values that I hold absolutely not in conflict with, in my opinion, the normal democratic values of the modern world, but are with some attitudes which, regardless of what the Interreligious Council has said, and we must, whether we want it or not, have to consider it because the BiH Interreligious Council, I'm not talking to myself, I speak on behalf of those whose... they are moral verticals and these are the 80 least percentages in this country. So in what context, socially and personally, do we have to show ourselves about this law? Or we have to intervene when it comes to this law. Certain advances have been made. There are amendments prepared for this law. The relationship with the amendment and amendment proposal, or amendments to this law, will depend on my own position, and I hope the position of our entire club. For today, about the dilemmas so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4749	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4750	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although we are talking about the principles of the law today, I think we are obliged to speak a word about a general framework that has been launched, i.e. the first proposal to draft this law and put it into parliamentary procedure. So no one reasonable here or in the world can oppose one law that prohibits discrimination on all grounds, especially one who has had the opportunity to experience discrimination in his life. I was fortunate or unfortunately in that country often exposed... to different forms of discrimination and I know what it looks like when you're worse than others because you look different, or you're called different, you pray to Bog differently or something else. And I'm against all forms of discrimination stemming from nature. So, from the color of the skin, from the faith, from the race, from the nation, it means against every trait we couldn't choose. That's the kind of protection I'm looking for for myself. I'm looking for all those people who live in this country. I'm looking for, of course, that kind of protection for other minority groups whose choice is, that's a worldview, that's supervision and a view of life, more miraculously, but I'm afraid, what my colleague Šaraba said, one so sausaged, unhumbled, too long the text of Article 2 raises the question of the definition of 20 possible discrimination so broadly that I'm afraid there's no way and opportunity to defend ourselves against the charges. So whoever wants to sue any individual, the BiH institution, under Article 2's provisions, to make discrimination, is very easy for him to succeed because it is so wide-ranging. On the other hand, some provisions later show that the burden of proof is typically an Anglo-Saxon reson, a legal burden of proving innocence on the defendant, which is not in accordance with European law, is not in line with my understanding of grieving and proving justice... [[Shortly turned off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4751	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4752	...and tomorrow I'm dealing with discrimination and it's not a burden on him to prove that I'm doing it, but on me that I'm innocent. It doesn't work in my head, maybe my head is tight, but that's right. So, and what colleagues have mentioned so far, we are a country that belongs to Europe, to Central Europe, to the Mediterranean, to the cradles of world civilization, not only to our Europeans, we have our civilizational achievements, our moral values, miracles, traditions, the religious code, the morals that have been prescribed and we cannot be deaf at the positions expressed by representatives of all religions in BiH, representing much more than 80%, as counterpart Zrno said, our BiH voters. We will probably express our position individually through the amendments and as clubs. I hope that the Croatian Club will react in such a way very concretely. But what concerns me, so I am absolutely on the side of all those who can be threatened by different forms of discrimination because of what they are, and they couldn't choose it. However, I fear abuse from those groups, individuals, groups that, by their choice, are who they are. I think we understand what we're talking about. And I am for the protection of their human and civil rights, freedom, political action, rights to property, acquisition, inheritance, etc., but I am against the small door and through this law imposing on us the criteria of these minority groups that want to change our wonders, our civilization threshold that we have set for ourselves, not us, but generations of years before us. And in that sense, it seems to me that we are in serious temptation to open the door to a minority group of any kind, which has chosen its view of life and its way of life, imposes on us a rule that we must live as well, otherwise we are being discriminated against. Therefore, it will take a lot of brains and philanthropic work on this law in phase two when there are talks that we don't fall into such a trap that we won't be able to get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4753	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. 21 Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4754	Thank you, Chairman. Although today we are discussing this law in the first reading, it may not be right to discuss it this much, but I don't know how much change we're going to have to make, because the law is very large. It contains a lot of members, and it seems to me that there's been a certain overstomisation, that there are too many provisions in each member and so many facts that I think this area is too much to deal with. I had the opportunity to see one law banning discrimination, which came to the Committee on Human Rights, the Joint Commission of both homes, which was done by NGOs and that law did not enter the parliamentary procedure because a working group was established at the Ministry of Human Rights, which was supposed to prepare the law and, behold, now this law is before us. The only good thing about this previous law is, in my view, that the central body for protection against discrimination is the Ombudsman institution at the level of BiH, which is this previous law should have been a special body that should have been established at the level of the state, which I don't think is good because we have a human rights institution that should deal with the issue of discrimination. Of course, I think like all previous MPs that no one can, no one can be smart against this law, because we know that we are a country that wants to become a candidate for EU membership, and the EU enlargement strategy is the Amsterdam Treaty that has been completed by the Mastrich Treaty of the EU. It obliges all member states wishing to become candidates for EU membership to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed primarily by the European Convention and all other international human rights documents. However, I am asking the question (I see that Mrs. Đuderija, who has worked on this law, Mr. Halilović, Minister of Human Rights), I am asking the question: Is this how Article 2 should have been overstretched, because we have protokol XII., which is a Protocol that prohibits discrimination. We have a member of the 14th. European Conventions concerning the prohibition of discrimination. We have a BiH Constitution that defines the issue of discrimination. I ask the question whether it took this much in Article 2 to state the reasons for discrimination, possibly because as soon as you go crazy and want all the cases to be regulated by one member of the law, you are in a situation that possibly some new case will not be covered by this article, because in the European Convention you also have all those cases based on sex, race, I don't know, all other cases or other status. That's what the European Convention stands for. Under other status, you can subdue all of this, and even what I don't like, this sexual expression, sexual orientation, I say it openly. I don't want it to stand in the law. I don't like it standing, because I think it's some other status and we can take it under that other status. So this, I think, seems like the law has been making too many standards. I wish he were simpler, and I don't know how much amendment we'll be able to fix this decadent legal arrangement that you've approached in the making of this law. I'd like an expert answer from the people who worked on this bill. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4755	Thank you very much. We will wear out the discussions and we will give and we will be happy to listen, with the pleasure of the Minister of Resorship, Mr Halilović. Next word came from Mr. Rančić, then Jović, then Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4756	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So before me, my colleagues said a lot about this law of ours. As far as I can tell, none of us are slowing down a real ban against all forms of discrimination. I see a high degree and support of the views of the Interreligious Council, which, of course, I don't dispute either. Since my colleagues have spoken a lot, I may only say two or three things about this law, since the debate is on the principles of this law. It is undeniable that criminal liability is the strictest social responsibility. It seems to me that, therefore, crimes are the most serious offenses, and it seems to me that this law makes some things more robust than criminal responsibility. Like what? Article 3 as an act or an option is prescribed that even when no concrete act has occurred in an indirect or direct manner of discrimination, it could only have led to this act being considered, it seems to me that such practice is not even in the criminal area. The second thing I want to talk about is the issue of burden of proof, and about protection against discrimination through these various processes concerning the Ombudsmans, administrative protection, protection in the administrative procedure, in the court proceedings, which was spoken of by the respected counterpart Rajić. Article 15 shall transfer the burden of proof relating to the proceedings referred to in Article 12, i.e. judicial proceedings to the defendant's side. There's an exception to the general rule regarding criminal, criminal, litigation, I don't know, and all the other actions: that the burden of proof is on one who sues and the court of course together determines one's responsibility. Of course, in the light of this law, it states that this is the result, on the side of the 15th of this law, of Council Directive 97/80 of the European Commission of 15. 12. In 1997, but here is the burden of proof in gender-based discrimination cases, and Article 15 concerning Article 12 speaks of the burden of proving the defendant in all court proceedings, not just as it stands here in this directive on page 15. However, on page 19 of the argument, there is a lot of uncertainty here. First he says, up in the beginning, it's about chapters of XI. to XVII. (Procedures against discrimination) 'It is necessary to take into account the fact that European law provides that the right to prohibit discrimination is regulated by law in the same way as comparable domestic rights'. That's not true. If we were to compare this area with criminal protection of civil, administrative proceedings, administrative dispute, here's the, I don't know, disciplinary responsibility, there's a burden of proof on the one who sues and the court, and it's not on the defendant's side. And it can't be said that this area is arranged the way it was done in another, is it, these areas in domestic law. Furthermore, in the fourth paragraph, it also states that the racial directive, Article 8, and the Equality Directive, in the employment process, also shifts the burden of proof to the sad side. 23 However, one more thing is disputed in reason. In paragraph 4, or paragraph 5, I will read and say, "What facts will be sufficient for the court or administrative authority to take as sufficient to transfer the burden of proof to the sad side will depend on the facts of the case and the development of practice." Therefore, it explains that from case to case, the court or the administrative authority will decide which facts are sufficient to indicate whether to transfer the burden to the sad side or not. The legal solution doesn't stand like that at all. Explicate says there's a burden of proof on the defendant's side. So, anyone who sues you, any person or institution involved in discrimination, you're guilty in advance, as soon as you're sued, and the court will judge the prosecutor's claim, unless you as the defendant can convince the court that you're not guilty. Well, now I ask the question: How many of these ways and approaches and directives like this violate the rights of the defendant? So the defendant, too, should be a natural person who has, say, the same rights and obligations as the one who sues. Is this how rights to justice, equality in court, law, etc. are violated?? Here, these are some of my dilemmas about this law, when it comes to the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4757	Thank you very much. So we have heard that it is not only moral and traditional principles, but also some legal principles that we already have in our legal system. Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcoming you and the co-chairs, respected colleagues, and all present today at this meeting, I have one or two principle questions or I would point to inconsistency with the proposings of such a law, and it refers to the fact and I would remind you that Article 1 says: "In accordance with the Constitution of BiH, the Constitution of the entity and the Brcko District", and there is no category of administrative structure of BiH listed here, which also owns the Constitution and the Ministry. And certainly, the proposings necessarily raised the question in the further part of the text of the law when it comes to application, because in BiH of so many or who knows how many times it is said that education and science, culture, sport and formation at the level of the county is. And then when the chapter is said to be the area of application, then there's inevitably a county. Or when it comes to the judicial part, keeping records, forgive me if, when it comes to jurisdiction, deadlines and execution of courts, they say, in both entities. And, then, in order not to be left out, either the Brcko District, and we don't and we don't know and we're witnesses and we're aware that at the County level there are also Fatal, means the complete trio of the government at that level. Here, that part I wanted to point out, and that, before we make a statement about the law, we should also see that segment and correct it. Because, I'm afraid, we'll make new ones, and I look forward to this law. If anyone is discriminated against in this country, at least one segment... of information, it's the Hrvat of this country. And I hope so, and I believe that through this law, we will recognize it. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4759	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Professor Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4760	I join the words of my colleague Jović that he is looking forward to actually preparing this law, and I appreciate the effort indeed made in making this text. We know that this is one of the European laws and we know that it regulates the problems that are very present in our society. To this conclusion by my colleague Jović, I would add, let's say, that I hold that in BiH today, both Hrvat and Bošnjak and Srbin as minorities, let's say, in different parts of BiH, and that is, I think, the most pronounced form of discrimination in my court, but with all praise to the composers of this text, about the reasons for their respect, obviously and intervention of representatives of international organisations, institutions, I would also point out something, in fact, that something that Čolo said, when she found that the proposed text of the law was too ferocious. And, for my part, I would recommend, if possible, and obviously this is coming to us in this now amendment phase, that we balance the amendments with the general, so to speak, the norms of the law with these specific norms that contain them. Because I'm afraid that's where it's missing, and that's where this craziness arises in terms of, say, Article II of the Constitution states (Article 4 of Article II)...the forms of discrimination and then goes on. And that is, for example, the reason for one of my serious dilemmas that I had when I first met with the text of the law, and there must have been some reasons for it, they'll probably answer me, the consequences I thought and I think, and now that this law was happier, it was called a law on preventing and punishing discrimination. Because discrimination is forbidden by the Constitution and by the European statutes and by all the legal acts that are, in fact,... have a valid supremacy, so to speak. And I therefore held that this text, to some extent, also points to the fact that it is actually about preventing what there is, they say, the logic that laws do not prevent them, that it is not their function, what lawyers and lawyers would do then, that it is not their function to prevent but to punish them for breaking the law. But I believe the contents of the text are like that. And in that sense, I would add that these remarks of legal and moral nature, which we have heard, are necessary, I would add, and something that even at first glance goes beyond the strictly legal, moral discriminatory fields of some kind of discussion, as a civil value, and what is not precisely explained here, precisely because of the character of the law in terms of, say, Article 2 is "the prohibition of discrimination", which is essentially thematic, 'application to all public bodies as well as to all natural or legal persons, both in the public and private sectors'. Public and private sectors are very serious categories that, in my opinion, would simply be normalized, because I'm afraid, as my colleague... right at the beginning said, that if we adopt, say, in a law like this, Bog himself knows what could be interpreted and who should define, say, the public and private sectors, among other things. Because these are not only legal but also political, cultural and even civilizational categories. I therefore believe that this, although we have seven days since the procedure is shortened, the short procedure is proposed, I hope that we will be able, although I am not sure whether we will be enough these seven days, that indeed in coordination and intensive, I would say, to work with the proposed 25 laws we try to find optimal solutions. The law is important, we need one of the European laws, and we understand the delicacy of some possible areas of its exploitation, I would say, we have legal experience with similar laws both in Croatia and Serbia, I recommend for this phase now the amendment to make maximum use of experience from Croatia and Serbia. These experiences also include the remarks we received from NGOs, from a non-governmental sector that really needs to be appreciated, and of course this from obviously our most powerful NGO, which is the religious communities that had spokesmen here in the Interreligious Council. And so, here, I'm not sure whether we're fully comfortable with this process with a shortened procedure, I hope that we'll be able to make improvements through these amendments in these seven days, so in that sense, it might be good for the motionary to make it clear to us whether we are enough for seven days, given all of these remarks and suggestions we've heard so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4761	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. We will certainly make sure that this shortened procedure lasts shorter than the basic legislative procedure, and the College will take into account, therefore, everything that has been stated today and, if necessary, extend the amendment phase of action in order to obtain a law that is appropriate to our country. I think if you'd agree to hear the Honorable Minister Halilović before we approach a statement on the proposal, because here, Minister, you've heard all the opinions of the MPs in this house, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4762	The Honorable Chairman of the House of Peoples, respected delegates, I had no intention of saying anything, but it seems to me that after these certain interventions that things were more clouded than they were at first although, of course, they were all, I think, well-intentioned suggestions to try to get one coherent, so to speak, the text of the law. I'm going to try to bring the picture closer to the integrity of the approach and everything that has defined the proponents to this kind of solution. So, at the beginning, it should be said that by the Constitutional Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, this proposed text of the law is fully supported. The proposal for this law is based on the concept of equality between human beings, which is essentially the central concept of all basic international conventions on human rights, starting with the UN Charter. Given that the current BiH Constitution highlights the primacy of these conventions over all domestic laws, this concept enters the very law on the level of BiH to protect human rights of BiH citizens and promote their equal rights and opportunities. When making this law, the proposed solutions were based on fundamental universality and indivisibility, i.e. the concept of equality of all human beings in relevant international conventions. For this reason, the solutions offered under this law have been treated as universal and indivisible in all BiH jurisdiction, and as such constitute a fundamental reason for the adoption of this law. 26 BiH further obliges to become an EU member, and EU membership is conditioned by the adoption of anti-discrimination legislation and its application in practice. With regard to those obligations, it is also important for BiH to highlight the importance of the EU Council Directive, which also obliges BiH as a member of the Council of Europe to respect the principles of non-discrimination and hence to come about with these solutions. Furthermore, in addition to this reason, it is also necessary to highlight the recommendation of the UN Committee on Gender Discrimination, which submitted to BiH Recommendation No. 13 which reads: 'The Committee proposes to the Member State to prescribe comprehensive administrative, civil or criminal anti-discrimination laws that prohibit acts of racial discrimination in employment, housing, health care, social security, including pensions, education and public housing'. Similar recommendations related to other forms of discrimination have been delivered by other committees, namely the Committee on Human Rights, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Committee on Civil and Political Rights. All relevant European standards and similar solutions adopted by other countries in the region and Europe are included in accordance with these reasons and obligations under this law. It should also be noted that the OSCE, the European Commission and OHR have received support for solutions set out in this law. The special anti-discrimination body is this recommendation from the European Commission and some specialised agencies... and Article 13. ..racial discrimination. Let me skip that, so for the implementation of the law in... this important chapter relating to central collection of data on cases of discrimination. So to sum up, this law that was done, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of BiH, on the basis of which public debates were held on the proposed text, one in Sarajevo 20. 11. 2008 and the second in Banja Luka 24. 11. In 2008, it contained all these solutions. The draft law on the prohibition of discrimination was also presented on the web link and in this way was made available to the public as a whole, and interested citizens and interesting groups could by electronic means deliver their written suggestions by the beginning of December 2008, which some of the NGOs used, such as the... community, then the Federation of the Trade Union of BiH, the Association of Persons with Disabilities, the Interreligious Council, etc. Today we only had a chance to discuss some of these aspects of the proposals that came. Also in line with the Council of Ministers' conclusion of 13. 3. additional consultations have been carried out with representatives of the OSCE, OHR, the European Commission, the BiH Ombudsman and entity governments. Therefore, it is our opinion that the MPs of the House of Nations have one acceptable, harmonised text before them and that a proposal should be opened to adopt it. In view of these particulars, I will try very briefly to look back, proposals, or opinions, all of them stand in a certain way. However, I have tried to present this genealogy here to say what has led to such solutions. Especially this Article 2 when he's said to be insane? You know what was the first formulation offered by the proposer? There was only one sentence: "Every form of discrimination is forbidden." And a dot. However, other participants in the 27 discussions of interested... requested further inclusion of these attributes for certain categories, and this led to this condition. Also, I don't know, I don't understand this Mr. Jović's intervention. I don't see in this law in Article 1. any invitation on a number of grounds. Here it only says in Article 1(2). In accordance with the BiH Constitution and international standards, and nothing more. Article 1(2), please! Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4763	: Item (2) of Article 1, I apologize
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4764	Yeah, yeah. There's nothing official about this (that's some kind of work version, I don't know, I don't get it) in this law, right here, I have this text right here. Then it's a technical mistake, I don't know what it is. [[Common discussion]] Okay, we can move on. As regards Article 3(2) on the character of this, it is fully assumed, so to speak, the spirit of the European directive on formulation. Also, Article 15. .. the proofs, the European Directive has been transposed here, etc. etc. However, one of the fundamental things about amendments from the Inter-Religious Council and these later on, on the basis of these formulated amendments, of course it can, is the right of MPs to adopt amendments and to adopt the law. It seems to me that this amendment under h) proposed is practically contained in point (c) of Article 5. As far as this amendment is concerned under g), of course, it is up to the MPs to declare it. So, in order for me not to pollemise or present counterarguments for individual solutions here, I have only tried to indicate the framework in which the proposings moved by making this law, whose procedure lasted for more than a year, with a number of actors, participants, etc. and, of course, the proposer is also open to this next phase of alignment until the next session, when these amendments would be proposed if they were agreed or accepted and proposed to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4766	Thank you very much, Minister Halilović. I propose to the MPs (so we heard an authorised promoter, we know what we noticed in the discussion of principles), so now we have had a brief consultation not to open a debate about what we heard. I think that after what the esteemed Minister Halilović said, all of our doubts remain. The College suggests that we accept this law in the first reading but that we consider it in the basic legislative procedure, so by regular procedure, we have enough space left for the amendment, because almost 28 was not a discussion that was not so well founded, that it is necessary to do so in the basic legislative procedure on the revisions of this law. So now I'm taking the position of the College. It's up to you to decide, but I'm not closing the debate. If anyone wants anything else concrete? Mr. Jović, please. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4767	Thank you very much. I really should say that I have before me a bill of law, a concrete one, which we are talking about and, looking at colleagues in the Bosnian language, it's not two laws. It's not really the same law, it's like two laws. Why is it so, I don't know, but I mean, I didn't have a discussion to discuss, but to improve and point out some solutions that would be better quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4768	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. The act you're talking about is in my hand. Therefore, in Article 1(2), exactly what you have quoted is stated. If you've noticed that with other colleagues, we have two different drafts from the House of Peoples. But we're going to fix it, before that we're going to determine with the motion that's the relevant act that's ahead of us, because two people have come to the House of Peoples, and we're going to fix it at the amendment stage. I'm not closing the debate, I'm asking if there's anyone else to discuss? I therefore ask the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, it is obvious that acts from the resolution ministry have come in two moments, to determine why this is the case. I can show here that they are mentioned here: the Constitution of BiH, stop the entity and Brcko District. There is no such thing here, let's say, with fellow Tihić, so I would ask that the credibility of the acts delivered to one, the other and the third club, or that we go with a credible act in the commission phase, into the amendment action. So... apparently no one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I propose, it is the College's proposal that we adopt this law with all these shortcomings in first reading, and that in the follow-up procedure follow the basic legislative procedure. So, we're going through a regular procedure. Who is “for ” such a proposal from the College? Unanimity. So, we passed this law in the first reading and below is a regular procedure. Moving to point 8. Point 8 is: 29 Ad. 8. Proposal for a tax code for BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The process is shortened and we will not be touching this shortened procedure here because this is about a law so important for BiH, as he told me, I am telling you, I will try to pass it on authentically, Minister Vrankić. So it's about a million marks a day in the budget, or it didn't come to the budget. So we have to take care of it. You've been given the opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. The House of Representatives adopted this bill with one amendment. So today we will have a debate in the first reading and immediately after this session we will also have a commission phase, we will hold a session and consider it to create a condition that we have this at the 31st session of the House of Peoples on Thursday. I'm opening a debate on procedure, a brief procedure. Please state who is in favour of the shortened procedure? We've already said that, but here I am now not going to stop anyone who wants to talk about this law even before accepting it in the first reading. The chairman of the Commission, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4770	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here you see, I think Mr. Ilija Filipović said that by passing this law, there will be an increase in fiscal revenues at an annual level of around 170 million and that this is the basic reason that determines that we reduce daily losses. You see, the Commission has done its job and it has made a decision, adopted the principles of the law and referred the law to the procedure and has unanimously concluded that the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of Nations proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly that the amendment phase lasts 24 hours from the date of adoption of the Proposed Act on Excises in the first reading. This means that at the next session, we would have this law in a second reading. That's how it is, I suggest we adopt this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4771	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. And, Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4772	Here, I think it's important for the record. We were also asked by employers through the Economic and Social Council to adopt this law as soon as possible to unblock the funds related to these 10 oil fencings. I mean, for the record that it's known, if the employers don't mind, I don't know why he'd have one of us. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4773	Thank you very much. Professor Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4774	I can understand the promoter's suggestion that this goes into short procedure, but I don't think that's good. And I'm going to be against a shortened procedure, because I think it took a much wider public debate on this law to make. This is one of the essential laws, the effects of the 170 million budget and 120 million for the roads. This means that the effects of this law are on average per family member in BiH 75 to 80 marks annually. This law makes sense, but under one condition: it may have made more sense to increase excise duties, but on condition that a lower VAT rate was introduced on basic products and that then richer layers of the population more contribute to budgeting, and that poorer ones in one part of the protection of basic products are protected. Only by increasing excise duties, with price increases, let's say, especially oil, will increase inflation and we will have the fact that the financing of additional revenues will be poured over to the entire population. So, I've been there for that, and I'd be there for that, but obviously there won't be a chance, 24 hours is such a small period that there's no way that there's a more serious discussion about that water. And I have no intention of participating in this in such a way, because it is unnecessary speed and because it is seen that the only purpose of this whole business is to fill the budget, which is absolutely, in my opinion, inappropriately the time in which we live, in a crisis that is going on and I would be for the excise duties to be even higher, but on condition, I repeat, that the VAT rate is reduced, and since the Council of Ministers has no intention of opening the topic at all, I am against the procedure being conducted by a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4775	Thank you very much. I may have said one thing to the missus, which is that we have included (if Mr. Ivanic can only hear what I'm about to say) in the agenda stands therefore the bill on excise duties, in brackets, in the short procedure, but we are 20. 5 said with 11 votes "yes" and one "against" vote on the procedure. Today we will only vote on this law in the first reading. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Jović, then Mr. Šaraba. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4776	Thank you very much. Very briefly, considering that we will have 24 hours to possibly invest in any kind of amendment. I express both regret and dissatisfaction with two or three things. 31 First, when it comes to wine producers, they were placed in that category of high-profit business organizers and businesses, instead of recognising that we were on the threshold of entering Europe, that the wine industry could also be identified as a branch that is falling in BiH, and we had given the climate and quality wines that we could at least the part that applies to stamps, when it comes to bottles, to collect such a expensive product called wine. The other thing I want to say is the slowness of the administration to return the funds that are given, so when it comes to lye-oil, it is certain that it will be further and complicated towards those who deliver and those who consume lye-oil. And thirdly, I don't know why it wasn't recognized, if we had the means to the roads that it wasn't recognized that from tobacco health products.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4777	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4778	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I also presented my dissatisfaction with the law at a session of the Constitutional Commission when I opposed the principles of the adoption of this law. I'm going to do that part again today and ask two questions to the project promoter. One is: Why are alcohol excises not introduced, and why is alcohol excluded from the introduction of helmets? And of course: Has the Council of Ministers proposed this law made any analysis of how much it will take to collect other life intentions and services after the collection, since it is something that always monitors the extraction of gasoline, i.e. these oil and oil products, since a few months ago we had the price of fuel that was 1.30 KM, it is now 1.60 KM. Of course, with this increase it will cross 1.70 KM and it is inevitable that it will lead to an increase in the prices of a number of life intentions. So, I'd like to ask you to answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4779	Thank you very much. Is there no mandate from the Council of Ministers here, or is there a Council of Ministers? Please give an answer to Representative Šarab. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4780	Thank you, Chairman. Dear delegates, guests, is a specific question, a concrete answer. The law stipulates the obligation of excise on alcohol. It is 15 km per litre of absolute alcohol, so there is a obligation under the current law and by the new one it has not changed. So there's the same height. In addition, there was a difference in taxation of domestic or, rather, mainly domestic fruit rakia products, and that is something new compared to the earlier proposal. So there's taxation and it's at the level of taxation in the region. In some areas, these prices range about 15-16 marks, depending on which country, with a different treatment of excise duty when it comes to alcohol and the time of payment of the excise duty in the case. Some of the neighbouring countries have such solutions that excise duty is paid at the time of imports of alcohol, i.e. the production of alcohol, rather than at the time of production of alcoholic beverages. So these are some specificities. A solution has been made here which in some ways helps manufacturers because the excise is paid at the time of production, i.e. placing on the market of alcoholic beverages, not just alcohol used as raw materials. So we did it to help as much production as possible, domestic production. As for the analysis of fuel collection, indeed one issue which is the topic in both the media and the Council of Ministers did not make a special analysis aware that the variations in fuel prices in the last year were indeed going from... retail prices that were over 2 KM and here are to 1.30 KM. It is undeniable that the introduction of an additional excise on fuel, dedicated additional excise on fuel used for highways, will lead to a review of the policy of the prices of distributors, our distributors and producers, but it is also undeniable that the analyses made in the field of the oil distributors' association and external experts show that the profit rates, i.e. margins, are extremely high in BiH distributors compared to the environment. So there's room for those rates to be reconsidered. Of course, it was not possible to prescribe the Excise Act, but it is possible to provide for other laws, under other laws, to try to implement what is prescribed, and that is, above all, to put the Competition Council in office as a body to review whether there is some type of cartel in BiH in the field of oil derivatives distribution. Here, if I helped clear this up, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-15-0.u4781	Thank you very much, Mr. Šakota. Does anyone else need a word? Here's what we heard from the assistant minister more than we expected and asked for. I ask you to plead with me on the bill's proposal, in the first reading. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? One “against ” and one“ abstention. ” So with 13 votes "for", one "against" and one "abstained", we accepted the bill, in another reading. 33 I beg you, in the first reading, apologize. The bill on excise duties for BiH was adopted in the first reading. We also have a proposal for the Commission's conclusion. The proposal of the Committee's conclusion is that "the Finance Committee proposes to the House that the amendment phase lasts 24 hours from the day of adoption of the Proposed Excise Law, in the first reading." Please let us also make clear on this proposal for the conclusion of the Committee. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? "Contained"? So, with 13 votes "for", one "against" and one voice "abstained", we also accepted the proposal for this conclusion of this commission. This exhausted the agenda of the 30th session of the House of Peoples. I thank you for your presence and close the session. Yes, yes, you've all received a call, the 17th is the Royal Sutjesk, and the 31st session on Thursday. Thank you very much. The seat's finished at 12.05.
