ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5505	I ask the representatives to take their seats, the technical service to invite the other representatives to the hall, 1100 hours have passed. We have a quorum in the hall, please take your seats fellow dear. I suggest we get started. So, ladies and gentlemen, fellow representatives and present representatives, ministers and deputy ministers and other officials from the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, gentlemen of the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is present today with 13 MPs, four of them from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and four from the Serb people. Gentlemen, Dr Ivanić, due to his illness, we wish him a quick recovery, and Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, have justified their absence. Because here is Mr Ibrahimpašić, who was prevented from present today for other reasons than Mr Ivanić. For the 35th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and new questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 33rd and 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 6. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 8. Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 2 9. Proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and cooperation with the International Criminal Court (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to fulfil the obligations set out in Article 41a. Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 3709) – Proposal for a Joint College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. But I still ask if anyone needs a word. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5507	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would ask that an initiative be put in place as a new item of the agenda to determine the real responsibility of the removed SIPA official Radislav Jovičić. As you know, the decision of High Representative for BiH Valentin Radislav, Jovičić was removed from the post of Chief of the Operational Support Service within the Agency for Investigation and Protection. The allegations put on his soul are that they require an emergency response, first the SIPAs, then the prosecutions, and then the competent commissions and both Parliament's homes. So whoever doesn't participate in what's written on this man's soul without any argument. So, if it is true that, I just have to elaborate... because it could be crucial for the decision-making process, only a few things: if it is true that Radislav Jovičić has acted over the chain of command within the SIPA, thus making it impossible for this agency to function legally, if it is true that he has served the SIPA staff and resources to supervise the Office of the High Representative, if, since Radislav Jovičić has access to sensitive information in his position in SIPA, it is considered justified that due to serious and reliable allegations that he is involved in corruption, which covers funds in exchange for the detection of classified information, and that this seriously jeopardises the integrity and professional credibility of the SIPA. In addition, it does not have the necessary qualifications because it is chosen on the basis of political reasons, imagine how people come to us in SIPA, we are told political reasons. The High Representative, or whoever wrote it, said the High Representative only signed it, so it is said that Jovičić has obstructed activities to strengthen the rule of law, and has directly threatened the implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. So it is impossible for Parliament to stay aside when we have a man, according to what OHR wrote, who has compromised the implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH! Someone who's done such things should answer. So I think this Parliament, this House has to take 3 views on this, and I'm asking you to support this initiative to be a part of the agenda, and we're going to talk about it, I assume you'll support me, after the 11th point, I suggest that it be point 12, and point 12 becomes point 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5508	We heard Mrs. Majkić. I'm opening the debate, so in connection with the proposed new agenda points. Mr. Tihić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5509	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to welcome you all one more time. And here, when it comes to Mrs. Majkić's proposal to form a committee or to discuss this issue, the decision of the High Representative, I think it would be a precedent, for the first time here we are discussing the reasons for the High Representative's decision and the question is, what can we conclude after all these discussions, because we know that such decisions cannot be changed, can only be confirmed, so later possibly in some procedure, if he is in charge of that, change. However, this may be the issue but other issues can also be found in discussions at committee meetings. For example, I would be in favour of us discussing, and it would be perfectly logical to discuss the shift of Dragan Lukač. Because it is still a shift made by our body, the BiH institution, because there is a reasonable doubt... that this shift is politically motivated. The question is, what, how will the other one behave in law enforcement institutions if someone is now running a procedure against high officials, I don't know you, in one entity or another, or at a state level, that's why it needs to be removed. How negative will this affect the rule of law, the fight against organised crime? I think if we're going to discuss it, we should discuss it. We need to discuss how to support these institutions that do these jobs, you know. I think that this shift of Dragan Lukač is a bad message to all those who work in crime-fighting, organised crime, and that it destroys the reputation of both the institutions and the SIPA, but that negatively long-term it will also affect the fight against organised crime, and it will be a more negative impact on those who are truly sincerely committed to fighting. So I am opposed to putting this issue on the agenda of the High Representative's decision, but I am so as to put this issue on the table for Dragan Lukač's shift at a meeting of committees, committees or joint committees, etc. who needs to discuss this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5510	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5511	So, what I'm saying is that I don't mind anyone taking the initiative and saying about this initiative. So, every single one of us here is right to take the initiative and talk about it. That means that you, Mr. Tihić, can file an initiative for Mr. Lukač and I... have no right to forbid it, as you cannot forbid me to submit this initiative. This initiative is called the Initiative to determine the real responsibility of the removed SIPA official. This is not an initiative to determine OHR's decision, we're going to do it somewhere else, this is now an initiative to determine the real responsibility of the removed functioner. And what she really is, I didn't want to talk, waiting for the agenda to come, but now I have to, she doesn't have anything more than the conclusion that she's imposing on the Joint Commission to examine the allegations made in the decision and to ask the Council of Ministers, that is, the Management Board, the inspection of the system for legally intercepting the communication of the SFRY and whether it's done or not. What's out there and what... can be inappropriate? Who would fight the truth here? So we just need to determine if that's how it was? That's the only reason I'm looking, is because I'm looking for this initiative. But I also allow the right of anyone who has similar initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5512	Dr. Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5513	Dear fellow envoys, respected ministers, so look, no one here can forbid anyone to submit an initiative, therefore I, their debate, colleagues Tihić, at the proposal of this item of the agenda, do not understand in that context, therefore. However, we are simply not competent to discuss the decisions of the High Representative. On the other hand, there are several instances, institutions before us... that would be obliged to discuss the measure of things when it comes to Mr. Jovičić's shift. First of all, the management of the SIPA, secondly, is the Ministry of Security, so these are the institutions that should be manifested before that, not Parliament. On the other hand, I also support this proposal, Mr Tihić's initiative, that the committee responsible discuss Mr Lukač's shift, so where we are in charge of showing ourselves, because it is about an official who has been removed from the authority that we can discuss, and we need to discuss and where we have jurisdiction. So much for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5514	Thank you very much. I'll give myself my word. 5 So, briefly. I have now carefully looked at this initiative proposed by my colleague Majkić, so I also listened carefully to what Mr. Tihić said. I conclude that these are two identical proposals and that this is not about the debate on the decision of the High Representative, but about the request to be placed on the agenda, to discuss this from the point of view of determining the real responsibility and forwarding of this initiative, Ms Majkić, writes here,... that we should decide after the debate, which is to forward it to the Joint Defence and Security Commission and that, in communication with the relevant institutions, it states in the Decision on Mr Jovičić's replacement. It is identical, just for another person, to put it in the same context, Mr Tihić said it would be good not to have the House decide, but to decide the relevant commission, so the Parliamentary Assembly... or the House of Peoples. So here in this case, it would again be the Joint Defence and Security Commission, if we decide to do so. Therefore, it is acceptable for me to accept both the initiative in the package, not to conduct this debate here, so a small correction: it is not necessary to establish that the House therefore accepts to forward the initiative to the relevant committee, both of which are both. The first one's in writing, the second we got as a oral request. Therefore, to establish the real responsibility, if possible in the Joint Defence and Security Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly on Trade, so on the shift, on the reasons for Mr Stanišić's shift, Jovičić, I apologize, and to establish the same reasons for the shift of Dragan Lukač. These are two initiatives – supporting the House to do so..., forwarding to the Joint Commission. I wouldn't want to, I wouldn't be in favour of us opening the debate right now, we don't have enough elements, we don't have the data, we don't have the data, we don't have the right to do that, let the relevant commission pass, and let it bring a word about this thing if it's able. And why stop any initiative that is in the interest of protecting the fundamental human rights and freedoms of any individual in this country. This is the House of People, ours, among other things, is the task and the mission to protect fundamental human rights, among other things, which fall into vital national interests. To forward the initiative, therefore to the relevant committee is the slightest sin, although it is desirable to do so to the House of People, without the difference that the citizen and individual in this country are concerned about. It's acceptable to me, and if it were in a package with one initiative and another, I don't think we're doing anything wrong or anything wrong. I therefore call on the Croatian Club to consider this proposal and to give support to both initiatives and to forward it to the Joint... committee of the Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security. Thank you very much. Mr. Zrno called before Rančić, then Mr. Rančić, then Ljubičić, then Čolo. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5515	Thank you very much. I welcome you all, all present here. Although I was the first to answer, but it doesn't matter, you don't usually see me. 6 Here, we have again, let's go under the quotes, problem. And very often we have it in this assembly because this Parliamentary Assembly obviously lacks an appropriate body to deal with these issues or similar issues. So, we simply, as a normal parliament, lack an investigative commission either at home level or a joint investigative commission at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And that is why I propose that this be considered and that such a body be formed at Parliament level, which will then discuss all this which brings us into dilemmas. Although we are not here in the dilemma, it is clear that we cannot discuss the decisions of the High Representative. And in that context, I understand both the initiative. Because from the first initiative of Ms. Majkić and the questions raised here, to which an answer is sought, they are set up to the institution of this state, the SIPA police agency. And I have absolutely nothing against asking this institution to respond as well as in the following case mentioned by counterpart Tihić. And that's why I think, after all, we as the House at this point about this problem and we can't discuss it. We simply don't have a single entry element based on which we could not make decisions, but rather discuss. So, I have absolutely no objection to these initiatives being directed towards an appropriate commission, it's the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Although I am saying again, our business opportunities are such that we can do part of this, and part of this we cannot do, and therefore I am launching an initiative to establish an investigative commission at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I support this proposal, here it seems to me, which is now a proposal from the College, that the Joint Defence and Security Commission accepts, that is, the House accepts this initiative, and that the Joint Defence and Security Commission responds to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5516	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Next up is Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5517	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5518	You want to turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5520	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5521	Thank you very much. It is true that the Joint Defence and Security Commission, among other things, is responsible for monitoring the work of SIPA. When it comes to that, then it should be borne in mind that it is necessary to monitor one whole work, not individually and personally take a tweezer with one name and say it 7 and that's all I want to say. In that institution in the last few months, of course, or days or weeks, except for this name and last name, or this case, or whatever you want, we also have the arrest of the man from that institution, and the man in charge of the drug fight. Well, that doesn't say anything, does it? We have the emphasis on the mandate of a few important people, there a deputy, one assistant, another assistant, we don't have enough time to respond, there's even going on that there's an abuse and that... one of the important assistants is appointed to an organisational unit, which is under the new law of last year, in the Police Structure Coordination Directorate, and there's nothing to be said about, it's not required, it's not disputed. We have events from a few months ago when the director makes a lot of noise all over the country and says: in my institution, it's illegal, we have parallelisms. So the Council of Ministers, then one session, then the other, Parliament, then the Commission for Defence and Security, then the media, and the public, is whether, and ultimately, all of this gets spooked, it's not like that, and it's nothing. So, if we're going to consider, and we need to consider the committee responsible, then we need to take into account the integrity of the situation at the Agency for Investigation and Protection, of course, and with the positive results achieved in that agency. There are also positive things, I'm not just talking about ugly things, I don't want to present that agency in an ugly light, I'm talking about integrity with all the good and possibly bad sides... or the things that happen in that agency. Only by treating the work of an institution, I think it is serious, that it is also responsible by Parliament, and also by the competent commission. The proposal made by my colleague Majkić, in essence, when you look at these conclusions, leads to the fact that it may not be about this protection of human rights, etc., of course, which I am against, which I am not, but essentially comes down to the fact that this House would be in charge of the Joint Commission to reconsider the decision of the High Representative. Are we in charge of this? If we're up for it, and here, please stand at point one. It requires the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to communicate with relevant institutions, with everyone, this is who is concerned, is the 'test', so let us examine, 'all cited in the decision on Mr Jovičić's replacement.' Who made that decision? The OHR, and we, or the Joint Commission, need to examine it. Whether the Joint Commission is in charge and since it has been competent to examine, review and perhaps modify those decisions. If we are, please, but I know we're not. I know we're not in charge of this. It can also be spoken to in this long attitude. And that is the difference: Mr. Chairman said that Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Tihić's proposal is not identical. Mrs. Majkić suggests that we review, examine this OHR decision, and Mr. Tihić suggests that the decision of the SIPA director which is unlawfully (needs to be established) be replaced or deployed by one of his assistants. The difference is that she, Mrs Majkić, is proposing to reconsider this OHR decision, and in this case, it is, in the other case, a proposal to review the situation in SIPA and the decisions of one official in this agency. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5522	A little replica. As you have referred to what I have said, I think that the exact same acts or infidelities that have happened – both persons have been removed. And there are no infallible ones, whether it's an institution, whether an individual on behalf of an institution like Mr. Lukač, or an institution, or those who have served them with certain data from the authority's authority, and it's called OHR. I'm sorry, people are out of work. So, identically replaced. 8 Next reported for debate, Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5523	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, colleagues and fellow delegates, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. When it comes to the decisions of the High Representative, it is clear to everyone the role and position of the High Representative and his authority, so that this is not to be discussed here in particular today. However, here I am now going to commit to the initiative submitted by Mrs. Majkić. By reading this initiative and listening to its reasoning, and finally, if we see each other and read the proposed conclusions, I have not recognized here at all a review of the decision, in any way a review of this decision by the High Representative, that we, now, mean anything at all. I simply realized, by reading this and listening to Mrs. Majkić, that it was about determining the truth about the reasons that were stated for Mr. Jovičić's shift and what was put on him. From what I've heard, and I think I've heard it well, in part, just what Mrs. Majkić said, Mr. Jovičić's qualifications have been very difficult and for the difficult qualifications that have been placed on man should someone really determine whether this is it or not. If it is, then really bad things happen in the SIPA. Ugly things are probably happening. So someone here mentioned the whole question of the work of the SIPA, the fuller consideration, and it's not just this one problem that happened, here are several phenomena that Mr. Rančić commented on, etc. So he deserves a more detailed analysis of the agency's work. And I don't see anything disputed here for the committee to discuss this initiative. I expect that in this debate on the commission, other conclusions or proposals will be defined to some other institutions that should be involved, without standing, meaning deaf and blind besides all this which is stated and placed on a man's burden. We have had examples so far that the High Representative has replaced people without any reason for us and we have accepted it, etc., but we have witnessed that same... this institution now abolishes those sanctions to people, again, without any explanation. So no one was particularly concerned about it, nor did it seem like he wanted to deal with it, so here seems that practice wants to continue. And, on the other hand, I really don't see anything controversial in this initiative to determine the truth about the reasons why this man was removed. Mr. Tihić's proposal will be supported together in a package with this, I don't mind. Therefore, and Mr Lujić deserves a man who has been removed. True, he was replaced by the Agency's director, I didn't see the reasons for the shift, nor did I hear the reasons for Mr Lujić's shift. So let's have Lukač, so let's... let's see those reasons for Mr. Lukač's shift. Let's also see the truth in these reasons, which is probably what the director of the Agency had and used for Mr. Lukač's shift. So yes, it's about the shift of two men, two men who, I say, lost their jobs, so to speak. One was replaced by a high representative, the other by a director of the Agency. And both of them had reasons for their decisions, and I just recognize in all of this just to determine the truth about these reasons for the shift and one and the other man. On the other hand, when it comes to the club of delegates from the RS, we will support this initiative. 9 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5524	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubić. Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5525	Chairman, I'll take a moment. I'd like to give my personal opinion. I think neither Parliament nor the Defence and Security Commission is competent to determine the real responsibility of any officials in any body formed at the level of the BiH state. The High Representative's decisions have never been questioned by this House, therefore, I don't think we should make a precedent in this case either. If there is justification for some of the suspicions raised in the decision of the High Representative, of course, the BiH Prosecutor's Office here should act on official duty, and no one should initiate it. The prosecutor is obliged to examine these allegations and if he determines the existence of a criminal liability, and from everything, there is a suspicion that some crimes have been committed, the D.A.'s office and the jurisdictional court will decide, and I don't think we need to discuss this today. And when it comes to the replacement of individual people at the BiH Agency for Investigation and Protection, I would just like to point out that we formed an Independent Committee for the Election of Police Officers in July, that the mandates in some important positions in BiH's security structures have already expired and that these positions remain vacant. We have a case that's for example. in the State Border Police, the extended term of office of the Director, Mr. Vinko Dumančić, that the term of office of Mr. Sead Lisko had expired, and that some people had been removed, so I think that the Independent Committee for the Selection of Police Officers should have met before, and, behold, this is one of my public criticisms to this committee which had one of the first constitutive sessions at which they only discussed the issue of their fees and sent a proposal for a decision on the amount of compensation to the Administrative Commission, and yet we have no indication that they have decided to call a contest to fill the seats in the security structures.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5526	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Mr. Šaraba, then Professor Neimarlija, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, esteemed guests and esteemed ministers, here we have been discussing for half an hour, and very well, this issue, and we almost have to adopt these conclusions that have been defined in this proposal here, of course, such or complemented, something changed. So it's no more normal than this house to discuss this or a similar initiative that appears before him, because this is the House of Peoples. And just two months ago, I launched a similar initiative that was adopted and that went towards the OHR because of that 10 drastic human rights violation and I am convinced and I believe that this initiative has begun to give some results slowly, because here's a number of people, a short time ago, have come back to say, a normal life and those sanctions have been lifted. So, considering this and similar initiatives is quite normal here, so why not question, or question, the esteemed colleague Rančiću, certain decisions made by OHR. Even there are living people and they're wrong. I'm convinced the OHR has made serious mistakes, as far as the shift is concerned. Isn't this abolition now a recognition of these mistakes? So, I support the initiative, I support the proposals, and I think that this and similar initiatives should be considered here, called on OHR representatives and pointed out the mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5528	Thank you very much, that's not the essence of the initiative. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5529	Well, here's the answer. So, it's not about whether we want something or not, whether you want to feel more powerful than the OHR or Parliament or some institution, or not. It may be someone's power is sweet and big and sweet, but it's about what you're in charge of, and what you're not. What you're authorized to do, and what you're not authorized to do. It's in the first part. And in the second part, the decisions that are now coming from the OHR, and about the removed SDS officials, I think you should, in order for it to be right, of course, you're going to take what you want, but I want to say my position. I think it would be more right for you to understand them, not as a confession of OHR's mistake, ask OHR and see if it's a confession of their mistakes, but I think you should understand that every sanction should have a beginning and an end. You need to understand that sanctions have a beginning and an end. So, when someone commits a violation, of any kind, it doesn't take forever, for centuries, for the rest of their lives to have that sanction. That's what it's all about. Is that something, if it's a time moon, three months, six months, years, four years, etc., not while someone's alive. I think it would be better for both you and them and for all the citizens to understand it that way. If it's a fine, it's, I don't know, from one to another. You can't live your whole life, you don't have to put up with a whole life of sanctions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5530	Thank you very much. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5531	Replica, chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5532	Here you go, Mr. Šarab. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5533	Dear colleague Rančić, you and we are not here. So all people are replaced. And I would, I don't know if you've had the chance to look at those decisions of the High Representative, so I'm sure you'd have a different opinion that you've read the last decisions he's made on the shifts of the High Representative. Lately, therefore, they have been such decisions that they deserve to be examined and questioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5534	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Replication on the replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5535	It's not real, dear colleague... The decisions of the authorities, the bodies, so I don't know, maybe sometimes courts, I'm not satisfied personally, but it's about hierarchy, respect. [[microphone is not enabled]] Whoever is in charge: when a decision is made, it should be respected. If we're always gonna avoid it, then there's no institutionality, etc. And the review of each decision and of the competent authorities has this procedure of first-degree, second-degree, emergency legal medicines, etc., etc. Therefore, I am a man of procedure and of these hierarchys, and of course, people can understand that every living man can always make a mistake, of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5536	Thank you, Mr. Rančić. Any more replicas on the replica? There isn't. Professor Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5537	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, from the media, guests, I will, on my part in this debate, consider whether or not the decision of the High Representative is being reconsidered by the initiative to add a simple insight to this initiative, in fact with the content of the initiative not only to review the decision of the High Representative but to judge and to make it very clear and negative. A very clear and negative judgment. I quote: "The High Representative, without checking the above allegations, made the above decision and ruled on a man with a brilliant police career." The trial, therefore, is not required of us, gentlemen of the House of Peoples delegates, that we are discussing, is that we are also discussing the decisions of the High Representatives, and there are no prohibited topics on which initiatives would be submitted and discussed, but I, and the Priors, refuse at all the possibility that in any way I should be able to identify myself with a text in which one of us takes the role of judgment. Furthermore, not only is a negative court being handed down, but in one way, I would say, an inappropriate way is further characterized by that court. It's all been happening around that people's caddies suing you, cadiya and 12 judging you. And it can only be done in this country and this country. But at the end of this, I quote again: 'As at the time of the worst Stalinist cleaning someone from the OHR used lies and lies, without any evidence or arguments, a crazed harang against a man, etc.' I really expected that in this home we can and have the right to talk about everything, but that we will not resort to just Stalinistic characterizations, the language that I held to be the dominant language of the system, in which we once, unfortunately, were, and here we have such a language when it is said 'for the difficult qualifications which have been resorted to by the people of evil intentions'. You know who's judging with the intention? And that's why I'm rejecting the contents of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5538	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. Mr. Rajić, then Koprivica, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone without counting. It seems to me that each time we should start a session with a little reminder of the definition of terms. Obviously, every time we need to, in a moment, we give terms the same meaning, the kind of interpretation of the content that suits us at that point. And about him now a few facts that we're trying to post-traumatically evenly and legally. No one should try to convince me that the request for a review of qualifications is, that is, an indication from this decision of the High Representative, anything but a request for a review of the High Representative's decision itself. I, who am not a lawyer with 100% certainty, claim that we are not authorized as a House or as a Parliament to discuss decisions in any way, and here I would disagree with my colleague, Neimarlija, that we can discuss everything. We cannot discuss the acts of an institution, an international institution that creates its work according to the decisions of the Peace Implementation Council Management Board and is the only one in this world responsible, we are not. Why is that? We can talk about it for nine years. Unfortunately, that's right, and let's not imagine that we have the right to what we don't have. Another notion that is clear to me, as well as to the wrongdoer: we can ask the question of responsibility, ask for reporting from any institution in BiH, start from municipal level to the Council of Ministers, to this Parliament, because we are the most legislative body of the state and through direct insight and control of the body of parliamentary and other institutions of government we can control and report on all procedures, including in this case, when it comes to the procedure within the SIPA mentioned by counterpart Tihić. But it's qualitative, and conceptual, and legal, and a whole other term, different from this concept that we're talking about at the beginning. Thirdly, here it is said that it can be done all together in the transmission, that it is that we just open the window and say, here, try out the window of this Joint Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security. It's not a neck. It's a neck. 13 So, absolutely respecting the need for representatives of any nation in the House of Nations to care for fate and possible violation of the constitutional or civil rights of any individual, I cannot support such an initiative, because this would be the opening of Pandora's box, this would be an investment in an area where we are not authorized. I wonder, again, at a moral level of questioning, why, when hundreds or dozens of the most powerful political representatives of one nation were replaced, no one in this House talked about it. Why did the need to talk about it become today? So, from purely moral and formal-legal beliefs, I can't support any of the other initiatives at today's session, but I think it would be appropriate to ask, if we want to see, and the choice is one other requirement in the behavioral and action of SIPA – let's deal with the work of SIPA. Let's ask ad hoc one report, one cut, and let's talk about it as Parliament. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5540	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mr. Koprivica. No more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5541	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome present delegates from the Council of Ministers and guests. Of course, I disagree with those who claim that the Joint Defence and Security Commission is not responsible for resolving and considering such issues and initiatives. This is provided for in Article 48. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in its position (2) says that "the Commission is considering other security issues of BiH as well". Of course, it is clear and evident that this is exactly the area. In this initiative, which Mrs. Majkić submitted to the agenda for today's session, she made it clear that she also raised issues concerning the SIPA, which concern the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which also concerns the High Representative. I don't see anything controversial about this problem, that the issues relating to SIPA are asked through this committee to answer the questions raised here in this initiative. Here, let me not read them now. He says, "Did SIPA carry out a check on OHR's allegations that Mr. Jovičić acted outside the legal chain of command within the SIPA, and did this act really disable the functioning of the SIPA?" What is the problem with the Joint Defence and Security Commission not considering these and other issues raised by the SIPA or the Prosecutor's Office? Which is why the BiH Prosecutor's Office has so far not requested the launch of an investigation against Mr Jovičić, although in the OHR's explanation of his shift, it claims he has committed a number of crimes. So it is clear that someone must answer these questions. Question for the High Representative: Why has no criminal investigation against Mr. Jovičić been sought to date, and why has the evidence against him not been forwarded to the director of SIPA? 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5542	We haven't moved on to asking questions, so you're asking them now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5543	So, what I'm saying is that there is not one single reason why individual delegates, who addressed this session today in discussions, say that the Defence and Security Commission, the Joint Commission of this Parliament, is not competent to consider and discuss such issues. I think they are wrong, and I suggest that we support Mrs. Majkić's initiative, that this commission is tasked with discussing these issues and that the further procedure comes up with the data set out in this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5544	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5545	I'd like to finish this debate first. We opened it in a normal way, we went to extremes now, making sure what we should do and how we should do it. We just have, I'm not saying one thing right now, we have two initiatives, we have one good and a contribution and a proposal from our colleague Rančić that in the context of two events and in the context of some other events again – it's logical that we open up a wider story about an institution called SIPA. I remain with that: this commission can consider what is in line with our rules of procedure. Thank Bog, we will determine on this commission what is out of the current initiative in accordance with our rules of procedure, and we will behave that way, and we will do the job. In addition, I would also like to remind us all just that we, so this Parliament, formed two bodies of police structure, was one mentioned by colleague Alma, unfortunately, one by one and a failed constitutive session, and the rest, it is the Independent Committee. Unfortunately, no other committee has yet been established, the Board of Appeals as an independent body of police structure, and perhaps according to this problem, if we forward it to our commission, and we have an answer, hiring, or seeking an indication or forwarding the received demands... The Board of Appeals. Because it's really a proper independent body that needs to be dealt with, even though I'm assuming it's going to have to deal with this problem. In order to shorten this story, to, come on, agree at least on the procedure, I ask, here, for each other to agree – five minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5546	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5547	Excuse me, excuse me. Here you go, straight to the replica. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5548	You have not noticed, I apologize indeed, it is actually more of an explanation than a replica of the words of a distinguished colleague Rajić when he questioned my claim that we can discuss everything here. So, I think that we can really talk about everything, but I think that I was absolutely clear that we can, and the High Representative, and the Constitution, of course, of BiH's constitution, we have the right to, therefore, talk about everything, but I was very explicit: therefore, we cannot question the decisions of the High Representative, and I was very explicit in that this initiative is in the context of reviewing that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5549	I, before giving a break requested by the president of the Hrvat klub, will say that we opened the debate here, we entered the peace, so we opened a thorough debate. We're not required to do that. This is an initiative. It's required to be placed on the agenda. We even agreed here and I have to tell you, we may not need a break, that everyone has the right to initiative. This home has received this initiative. The content of this initiative is not required to discuss the House. And we suggest, therefore, that it should not be included in the agenda, but that we should forward what we have received in the House to the address requested by the representative from this home. Everyone has the right to the initiative, and the fate and initiative of the relevant body – if the relevant body declares itself immeasurable, they will reject it. I don't know what's in it? So there's no special reason not to forward it. But we can renegotiate here, so we're not discussing, I didn't even think that here we were discussing OHR's decision, no, the initiative to consider the real responsibility of the person the OHR replaced, so that's an initiative. Well, it's our right in this house to defend the right to initiative. Well, it's our duty and our obligation, this is the House of Peoples. So, just an initiative. Let us forward it to the address where it will be discussed in a particular body. Hey, Rančić boy, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5550	The chairman, so I absolutely agree in the part that every delegate has the right to initiative, its own. And we're not defending it, but we're challenging it to be the attitude of the House of Nations on the proposal of one of the delegates. That's the point, and for all the reasons we've talked about so far, not to repeat them. So let's not dispute the right to initiative. We had a meeting of the Joint Defence Commission, and colleague Majkić spoke about it at the last session of this committee, so we discussed something. Here, let her, as a delegate, have an initiative, we of course don't argue, it says she has a right, let her start this issue again on this committee, we don't dispute any of that. It is disputed that this initiative of hers be the attitude of the House from all the arguments we have said. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5551	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break on Mr. Zrn's 10-minute proposal. [[PAUZA]] We'll get back to work. We'll call the representatives at the gym. So, I'm just asking Mr. Zno to brief us on the reasons for the request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5553	Thank you very much. I asked for a break so we could discuss how and how to set ourselves up for the initiative at our club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5554	A little louder, I can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5555	I asked for a break to discuss how and how to set up the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5556	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. I will now put, therefore, firstly, the initiative to determine the real responsibility of the removed SIPA official, Mr Radislav Jovičić (Initiation of Mrs Dušanka Majkić). So we vote whether or not we're going to have it on the agenda in the way that Mrs. Majkić suggested that it be point 12, although we have point 12, and then the next point 12 becomes point 13. So I put it to the vote: who's "for" to put it on the agenda? We have four and two, six votes "for". Who Is “against ”? We got, what's that? Four and three is seven. Seven is “against. ” So, we don't have entity support and I'm asking, so we'll do it again, if we have a consensus in the College. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5557	There's no ordinary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5558	Yeah, yeah, there's no ordinary majority. So this initiative didn't go away. I am putting it on the agenda of this initiative by Mr. Tihić. So, we heard another initiative about Mr. Dragan Lukač's shift. Who's "for" to put it on the agenda? That's four, six, seven. Who is “against ” to put it on the agenda? Two. "Contained"? "Contained" four. We don't have an entity majority now. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5562	The first question I received from the 33rd session of the House of People, held on 23.7. this year, was related to "the Official Journal of BiH" and the question is, "What has the Council of Ministers taken to regulate the legal status of the "Official Messenger" and when will the legislative act, the proposal on regulation of legal status, be referred to the parliamentary procedure?" And I'm really not happy. I see here that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Office of Law, the Directorate for European Integration, the Ministry of Justice, that they are all up to 14. 5. submitted the proposal for a law on the Public Enterprise to issue BiH's official votes to the Council of Ministers. And, as of then, so now, the law is still not in parliamentary procedure. So, there's something waiting. I wish I'd gotten what the law is waiting for in this response from the secretary general. So I didn't get an answer and I still don't have a question I've repeated a few times and I still don't have an answer. The second question was about the archives. So, I got a response from the Council of Ministers, so I guess the Ministry of Defence did, and I didn't get an answer there 'why could the Federation Government take over its decision by the archive of the Federation of BiH and why, in addition to the conclusion, the RS Government cannot take over the archive of the former RS Army for the part that doesn't belong to the Armed Forces, why can't it still take over?' So, I'm unhappy with the other answer. But here, if all three answers weren't right, there's one good material that's very welcome right now, that's the answer to the third question. It's about the national balance in institutions. Now, that's what we've been talking about all along, here, different political parties have said different things, and here's finally the Council of Ministers, he needed it, but he did make an answer. I'm really happy. So you have before you a national structure of executives in all BiH institutions, state officials, secretaries with special task, secretaries and ministerial assistants in the BiH ministries. As I see it, 74 institutions are listed here in total. So these are even those who are in the management of the organisation as ministers, are explicitly listed and what stands. So, Article IX of the BiH Constitution says that "functioners appointed to positions in BiH institutions, in principle, represent the composition of the peoples of BiH". We translated it into '91. The year in which it says that the Bošnjak is 43.47, and they are represented in the management of 42.56, so even 1% is no less than they should be. Srbin on the list have 31.21, and are represented in the leadership with 29.51,...% less than should be. And Hrvat, according to the list of 17.38, have a leadership with 24.28 or 6.9% more than they belong to. 19 So this is the truth about employees of BiH institutions by national structure, so no one is talking anymore about how damaged or not damaged. Now the next thing you know, you're supposed to be seen by institutions. The next question should be what is the specific weight of institutions to see who is the most. So thank you for this matter to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5563	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. We heard him looking at his answers to Mrs. Majkić. Next up is Mr. Branko Zrno who got the answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5564	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5565	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5566	Yeah, happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5567	Good to see you, too. Thank you very much. Mr. Adem is gone. We've exhausted these answers. Any new questions? Mr. Rajić, Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a brief comment, I will refer the matter to the BiH Council of Ministers. So, BiH, a complex state of three constituent peoples and all citizens, has a equally complex constitutional and lifelike reality. Of course, the question of all the issues in this country since I remember is national inequality. We often deal with good intentions and even more often with political motives. I don't think the issue of national equality is only important, but I am convinced that without its proper resolution, nothing else will be effective. The issue I will ask is the answer to the parliamentary question of counterpart Dušanka Majkić about the national structure of the executives and state officials in BiH institutions. It becomes certain that the response data confirm the unequal position of the three constituent nations at the highest levels of state power, and that this situation requires a serious parliamentary debate. An additional reason to obtain data and open a debate at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is that there are a number of signs in the media that claim without delay that Bošnjak in the said institutions are completely suppressed. 20 For these reasons, I propose to the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in the future, to include the agenda item on the national representation of all employees in the BiH institutions in a way that the data we received in response to the parliamentary question is added to the data on the national structure of all BiH institutions. In order to complete the data for the debate, I would like to refer the matter to the BiH Council of Ministers, as follows: 'a) What rules and criteria do the completion of executive functions in BiH institutions in respect of national structures take place? ( b) What is the national structure of all employees in BiH institutions? c) In what way and within what time will the coordination of the national structure of employees in BiH institutions be carried out where there is a imbalance?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5569	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mrs. Majkić. New question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5570	I have three questions, three questions for three institutions: the Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Prosecutor's Office and the High Representative's Office. Question addressed to the Agency for Investigation and Protection: 'As it is the OHR's decision to replace Radislav Jovičić from the position of the chief of operational support, the following questions are also requested: 1. Did SIPA carry out a check on OHR's allegations that Radislav Jovičić acted outside the legal chain of command within the SIPA and did the act prevent SIPA from functioning? 2. Since Radislav Jovičić, as stated in the OHR Decision, served the staff and resources of SIPA to supervise the Office of the High Representative, whether there was knowledge in SIPA, what the role of the Department of Internal Control was in that case, whether internal control was carried out to ensure the prescribed compliance with the law, rules, police manuals and written orders, in accordance with Article 19. The SIPA Act? 3. Did the SIPA implement the legal procedure of Mr. Jovičić's election at the post of Head of the Operations Support Service and did the SIPA director sign his appointment on the basis of valid documentation? What professional qualification does Jovičić lack for the place he was removed from? 4. How could Jovičić have been listening to OHR if the Telecommunication Interception System was put into function 1.6, it began to be used from 2.6, and Jovičić was fired 6.6? Is 21 being checked for warrants placed on the system? Any evidence of the abuse of the system by Jovičić? Did Jovičić have access information and was he trained to work on the system? 5. Does the Management Board, which controls and controls the system for legal interception and communication, have information on the abuses of the system by Mr. Jovičić and did he carry out the inspection? What are your inspection results? And in the end, will an investigation be carried out on this case and why did Jovičić not get a solution to the cancellation, only his work book was closed?' It's for SIPA. To the Prosecutor's Office: 'How come the BiH Prosecutor's Office has not so far asked for the initiation of an investigation against Radislav Jovičić, although in the OHR's explanation of his shift, it claims he has committed a number of crimes, abuse of position or authority, corruption involving receiving funds in exchange for disclosing classified information, listening without a court order, etc.? And finally for the Office of the High Representative, I ask: 'Why didn't they ask for a criminal investigation against Radislav Jovičić and why the evidence against him wasn't forwarded to the director of SIPA, the Council of Ministers and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5571	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is this. Thanks to the rich, medicinal and non-polluting BiH flora, and in particular Herzegovina has exceptional quality honey, EU countries are interested in its purchase in large quantities. The first quantity of honey exports to Norway, organised by the Balfia Bee Association from Trebinj, was recovered from the Slovenian border. Reason: BiH is not on the list of third countries, with the right to export food of animal origin that includes honey. BiH does not have a monitoring plan for the bear residence. BiH does not have a certified laboratory for analysis of honey residuals. My question is: 'When will the Council of Ministers implement amendments and additions to the laws that will enable the establishment of a certified laboratory for monitoring residuals in honey so that BiH can come to the list of third countries for the export of food of animal origin? How long did it come with a monitoring plan to track the residuals in the honey?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5573	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Mr. Tihić, please. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5574	Ladies and gentlemen, I share the opinion of those delegates who say that the ethnic structure, among other things, is not only political positions but also a position in state institutions. Normally, it also implies that it is about people who meet all other conditions, because it is about people who are professionals and people who are supposed to be in some positions, normally, freed from political influence. But all of us can also satisfy it to be an ethnic structure again as Article IX of the BiH Constitution says it corresponds to the approximately ethnic structure of the population. It's hard in those percentages or decimals, proms, always and at all times secure. But it's supposed to fit around here. We believe that the current situation is not such that the ethnic structure of employees, this as the Council of Ministers has now responded: it does not correspond to the real situation, because it speaks of some positions, not only of the main ones, but of some secretaries, appointed persons, executive officials, officers, and I don't even know what else you are talking about, in order to achieve what is given the task of responding to a nearby structure. And that is why I agree with Mr Rajić: there needs to be a report on the ethnic structure and all the employees. But what am I looking for? I ask for an answer to the delegate question that the Council of Ministers answers: "What is the ethnic structure of employees in the main positions in BiH institutions?" According to our data, of the 60 main positions: 26 are Serbian nationalities, 19 Bosniaks, 14 Croatians, only one of the categories of others and that in this call of the Council of Ministers, you know of 24 appointments of the main positions: 13 are Srbin, six Hrvat, four Bošnjak and only one in the category of others. So statistics are a strange thing, it can be presented in one way or another. It's a good thing we have this information and answer to Mrs. Majkić's question. I think you should give an answer to the question and to Mr. Božo Rajić, but also to this question of mine, because, you know, in state structures, it's important who's the first man, you know. He is, however, there is a certain hierarchy of ways of working and doing, and I think that we as the House of Peoples, when we have all these data, you know – and what Mr. Rajić is looking for, and what I'm looking for – we should discuss because it is primarily our obligation and our task to, in one normal, calm atmosphere with all relevant indicators, without any politicalization, we have the right information and, in the end, to make sure that in the future, if there are any deviations to the harm of one, long or third people, that we try to do so through one process, since the appointment process correct one rule that in future work there are not a variety of objections that this people are not represented or, etc. I want to ensure the full equality of all constituent peoples and also those in the category of others, who do not plead either as Srbin, nor as Hrvat, nor as Bošnjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5575	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. I ask everyone to deliver their questions in writing. Mr. Jović. Here you go. 23 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I'm reporting for the first time, I'd like to welcome you, your co-chairs, your distinguished colleagues and everyone present at this session today. My first question will not be a question, but rather a colleague from the Constitutional Commission of our home who gave me the assignment, as chairman, to ask a question at this session, and it concerns this decision of our home at the 27th session of the 26th March of this year, and it is a decision to join the amendments to the BiH Constitution, to form committees. I would like to inform the distinguished colleagues, who are fully present here, that I am unable to ask a question because... we have some new elements that I will present at the next session of our Constitutional Commission and I believe only at the next session of our home can I ask these kinds of questions. And my questions for today are focused on the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court of Justice. Yesterday, on September 14th, it was the anniversary of the massacre of 41 Hrvat, old men, women and children in the village of Uzdol. You know exactly who, when and how he did it. I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Department of War Crimes and the Court of BiH: 'Will they also bring and condemn the officers and perpetrators of this crime?' As I have information about the investigation ended, in this case a year and more ago, there is a legitimate question of whether the Hague practice has been transferred because of the relationship of that institution against the victims of Hrvat, I cannot call it a court, even less justice, because not a single case, but not a single case where the victims of Hrvat are – the institution has not prosecuted. So I am afraid that this has also been transferred to the domestic judiciary, and I have repeatedly spoken for this speaker and mentioned how the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH behaves when it comes to the processing and condemnation of people who have committed a crime against Hrvat. A lot of people are walking today, doing business, and there's no telling where the victims' bodies are. The second question of the Office of the High Representative for BiH, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court and the SIPA (I have a custom to say with Aziz, the Agency for Investigation and Protection, would be better suited than the SIPAs). We are witnessing these days, an activity has been completed to find and bury the missing in the war of BiH Army General Avdo Palić. Welcoming this human and human gesture, and I thank all the participants in resolving this case, but I ask the question: "What about the missing General of the Croatian Council of Defense to Vlad Šantić? Is he a citizen of this land, is he a general and who asks for it?" And the High Representative, and the Prosecutor's Office and the NGO, all worked first, I congratulate them. And if I could've helped, I would've helped. But here's not who's asking or who's helping! There was no conflict in Bihac, I would recall, fortunately, between the HVO and the BiH Army, but talks on possible joint action aimed at protecting the Bihac population and the surrounding population disappeared at General Šantić's meeting. It is known exactly who, when and where the Vlada of Šantić called from that moment (when the doors of the hotel of one room closed, and in his escort was both the driver and his rapist) lost every trace. The witnesses present in this 24 crimes are alive, and the perpetrators are free to act in high responsibilities. And the family, comrades, friends, can't at least know the truth and restore the dignity of the victim by burial, candle, flowers, and prayer. This is a question that every man in this country must imagine: how long will the Hrvat be citizens of the seventh order?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5577	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5578	Thank you very much. I have a question for the BiH Law Department College: 'Is the BiH Defence College functioning in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure on BiH's work? Please respond from the BiH Defence College." Namely, I have been informed by a letter from the deputy lawyer, according to her, of a lot of irregularities in the work of BiH's defenders, of a pretty self-will, illegal work and work that is not in line with the BiH Ombudsman's Rules of Procedure. Part of these allegations you received from all delegates in a letter from the Assistant Advocates regarding the Law on BiH's Defence, which is on the agenda today, where they are said to have been unable to declare at all about the law, that they have not at all learned that the law is in the procedure, that it is at that stage and that it will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and that they will be identified as a proposal, and they as an institution should have declared it. So, in order for me not to extend and expand, I am interested in legal work, working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members of the 4th, 7. etc., but of course not only those members but all the legal work and work in accordance with this Rules of Procedure of the entire Advocate General, and especially the College which is composed of the Advocates and the two Deputy Advocates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5579	Thank you very much. Any more questions? I'm finalizing a point of new questions. We're going to point two, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 33rd and 34th meetings of the House of Peoples ... I'm opening a debate on one and the other minutes. I'm closing up. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5581	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5582	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5583	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5584	Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5585	I think one mistake was made in this part, it is the third party: 'Delegate Dušanka Majkić asked the next question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers', and then the conclusions of the House go. So,... after this sentence 'The Council of Ministers, by decision of the House of Peoples at the session adopted', then and then, 'the following conclusions' were adopted. That sentence should precede, because this is not a question. Question goes down. I think you can see that a technical error has been made, because this is not a question. These are the conclusions adopted by the House, so I protest because I haven't received an answer in 10 months, and then I ask the question again. I think people who work the record know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5586	Thank you very much. It is clear from this record that this should have been a different order. Please fix it, only the order of thought said. So take a stenogram and rewrite this in relation to the asked question and conclusions on Mrs. Majkić's questions. Is there anything else about the 33rd session? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement for the 33rd session. Who is “for, ” along with this repair that will make the ministry? Someone “against ”? "Contained"? So we unanimously accepted the 33rd session. I'm opening a debate on the 34th session. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. Who is "for" this record? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 34th session. 26 Point 3 is Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers You've received a report from the Finance and Budget Committee. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text and the House of Representatives adopted this law in the proposed text. But does anyone have needs? I'm closing the debate. Please let us be clear about this law in the second reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously adopted this law under point 3 in the second reading. Point 4 is: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Child Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5589	Well, Chairman, here we have had one situation that we, on our commission, passed this law with two amendments identical to that of the House of Representatives, by having to propose the third amendment, which was adopted, which concerns the provision of a law that was missing in the text adopted in the House of Representatives. Well, I don't know if there's any need to comply at all, because it's a provision that must be an integral part of the law under the Unique Rules.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5590	There must be a consensus, because it's adopted in a different text, different texts include a decimal if we put in the House of Peoples compared to the text that came from the 27 House of Representatives. We'll respect the Rules of Procedure until the end. It's an amendment, and that's why we're going to form a CIC, which is going to have one easy job, it's going to do it in 7.5 seconds. I'm not closing the argument, I'm asking if there's anyone else I need. Miro, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5591	: I will only mention that this law..., Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, as well as basic law, this is the 5th, 6th time to change, trying to have a Croatian language. I just don't recognize the language. And I think that when it comes to agreeing, it should be noted and done what is necessary, that the law is also in Croatian.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5592	The publication goes into all three languages. So, we're going to assign the Secretariat to take care of this observation, which is something quite logical, of course, that the laws come in all three languages to the representatives of the three nations. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5593	If I may?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5594	Go ahead. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5595	: The published part? I'm talking about the published law, the Croatian language is gone, and for God's sake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5596	And what law are you talking about? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5597	The law we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5598	About the basic text, right? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5599	And the basic text.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5600	You see, anything is possible. Whoever's working, he's wrong. Why did he make a mistake in our language, in Croatian, I don't know, but we will ask them not to sin in any language in the publication. I'm not closing the argument, I'm asking who else wants a word. Mr. Šaraba, is it? Did you ask for a word? No, I don't. Look, I'm used to you looking for a word. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to accept that we appoint this committee. 28 First we will vote on the law. Who is "for" a bill like this with these three amendments? I agree that we unanimously passed this law. As he differs in the text, therefore he is different in the text, Mrs. Čolo will accept it, we will appoint this commission. From every club, please, one name at a time. The Bošnjak Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5601	Cholo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5602	Mrs. Čolo. The Hrvat club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5604	Mr. Zrna, very democratic. The Srbin Club? _________(?) gospodin Šaraba. Mr. Šaraba. So, I find that we have appointed this committee as Čolo, Zrno, Šaraba of the House of Peoples. They will inform, so tomorrow is the session of the House of Representatives, the Secretariat that the House of Representatives has appointed this commission, so we get this text in the press release. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5610	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered this law in its first reading and supported the principles of this law. The law is actually a alignment with the Customs Policy Act. We have the Law on Free Zones in BiH, which was adopted in 2002 and amended in 2003, but it is not in line with the new Customs Policy Act and, given that more than 50% of the members were to be amended, a new law was made. We have proposed two conclusions: to request the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, because it was also the conclusion of the relevant Commission of the House of Representatives and, given that the procedure for the adoption of the law in the House of Representatives has not been completed, we have asked that the amendment phase be extended until the deadline given in our report. That's 48 hours before the committee's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5611	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea, so this law under point 8. (in first reading) and this report proposed by the relevant committee. Who is “for ” to accept this law in the first reading, with these two conclusions given by the relevant committee? I find that we accepted it unanimously. Point 9 is: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and cooperation with the International Criminal Court (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The House of Representatives also considered the same bill and accepted it in the first reading, so the principles were accepted. You've received this report from the relevant committee. I'm opening the debate. Are there any interested? I'm closing the debate. 31 I would like to make a statement on the proposal for a law under point 9. (in first reading) Who's "for"? ‘Non’? No one. "Contained"? No one. We unanimously accepted the proposal for this law in the first reading, under point 9. Point 10 is Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Ombudsman (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5614	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5615	Here you go, Mrs. Majkić, break this pain.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5616	Yeah. A little while ago, my colleague Rančić mentioned it, so he mentioned the pravobranilaštvo in his question. We all got the letter sent by the attorney's assistants. I'd really like this, Minister of Justice, always to have concise, exact answers, I'd like him to say a few words, just to get some dilemmas that this letter left with us to convince us that it makes sense what's standing here and whether we should even pay attention to this memo that we got.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5617	Now we're discussing this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5618	Would you like a word, Mr. Tihić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5619	Well, people, let's discuss this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5620	But you have to come to the pay phone. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5621	No, I don't want a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5622	Mr. Tihić gave up. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this bill under point 10 on a statement. Who is “for ” this bill to be accepted in the first reading? We unanimously accepted this bill under point 10 in our first reading. Point 11 is: Ad.11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH Parliamentary Assembly The House of Representatives accepted the bill in the first reading. You've received a report from the relevant committee. I'm opening a debate. Is there a need for anyone? I'm closing the debate in my first reading. If they are dissatisfied, there will be amendments in the second reading. Who is “for ” such a bill in the first reading? Someone “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. We unanimously accepted the bill under point 11. Point 12 is Ad. 12. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to fulfil the obligations set out in Article 41a. Law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No 37/09) – Proposal for a Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Group homes
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5625	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5626	Wait a minute, I'm concluding a debate on this conclusion proposal and I'm asking the clubs to propose one person in this body outside our home. The Bosniak People's Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5627	I'm sorry, I was a little hasty. Mrs. Čolo is our proposal, our club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5628	The Hrvat club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5629	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-15-0.u5630	And the Serbian Club? _________(?) gospodin Koprivica. So now we're going to get to the bottom of this proposal. Who's "for" this conclusion, please? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for this conclusion. We will now declare the proposed gentleman: Mrs. Čolo, Mr. Jović and Mr. Koprivica. Who is "for" this composition of the proposed candidates? I'm being unanimous. In the end, I find that the agenda is exhausted and I conclude today's work at the House of Peoples. 34 Sessions are finished at 13.00 hours.
