ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31594	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 69th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I will skip the introduction, and every previous session, I welcome everyone present, I realize that the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. As for the amendment and addition of the proposed agenda, the agenda is removed – Proposal for a anti-mining act in BiH (second reading), at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. Add a new point to the agenda, point 3. – The request of the BiH Council of Ministers on the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, point 9 is new – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH, and it is complemented by the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget that is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31595	The Honorable Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. I would like to ask a few questions in determining the agenda on the basis of which I will determine the continuation of my discussion. The first question is referred to you in the College of the PSBiH House of Representatives and I am very interested in what your answer to this question will be. For a point of today's 22nd agenda, I ask the question of the College – Is it possible today to introduce the practice that these points of the agenda are entering the agenda with such arguments as they are doing today? I remind you, when we from the SDP have submitted a whole series of initiatives in recent years, there have been very clear warnings about what the initiative should contain, etc. Here, as you know, there is no written explanation, but there is a stenogram with the presentation of one of the MPs. So I expect you to now provide an answer to this question, so that others can be predetermined about the future sessions of the BiH Parliament, because in this way they submit initiatives, each MP can propose 2 at least five initiatives, in each session, in this way. Just, then, to get up, to put it out, to take a stenogram later and make it an initiative. The second question is the Party for BiH Club – Is the Party for BiH behind this initiative or not? We at the SDP Club need to know the answers to these questions, so that we can react in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31596	Thank you. This is not a discussion, questions and answers, I will take your question as a question to the Kolegijum regarding the item of the agenda you mentioned, 23, is it in accordance with Rules of Procedure 22, is it in line with the Rules of Procedure? I will inform you that we agree in the College that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it has come to the agenda because it is an initiative that has been delivered to the College in writing. As with all initiatives in this Parliament's work so far, when it is addressed either to the Kolegijum or here, as part of parliamentary issues, in writing form delivered, we from the College are sending the initiative automatically to the commission. After obtaining an opinion from the Commission, it is then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that point of the agenda, which does not mean that this Parliament, when it puts it as a item of the agenda, declares on this initiative in terms of the initiative with material, rather than declaring whether it will go a step further, and that committee, proposed by the initiative, is to form, and then be in charge, either of the motion, or of the Kolegijum, or of the competent ministry, of a particular body, to obtain material. Therefore, at this point in the agenda, we can discuss whether for the next session... when it comes as a part of the agenda, and who is obliged to obtain material for that part of the agenda. We in the College have thus understood this point of the agenda, as well as all the initiatives so far. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31597	Actually, it's more of an explanation. I would like Ambassador Denis Bećirović to explain to us what it means – the answer in an adequate way? How is it, is it some kind of fright like this, what's the answer in an appropriate way? What's the appropriate way?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31598	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31599	Thank you. Chairman, I have a question for you, the chairman. Am I, as the chairman of the MPs' club, obliged to answer the parliamentary question? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31600	I said these aren't questions and answers and there's no one here. I was answering, and I didn't even call you to answer that, so you're not obliged to answer that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31601	Well, here, I mean, the questions were intonated like that. So just to be clear, whether I'm mandatory or not, I'm not mandatory, okay. Dear counterpart Bećirović, i.e., here, I will also now address the SDP MPs' Club, when we agreed on the agenda at the Enlarged College at the beginning of the session was one of the points of the agenda of which you were the initiator. After the debate that developed here on the agreed agenda, at the Extended College attended and chaired by your club, we received the answer that each MP has an individual right of initiative. Well, here, let me just answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31602	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31603	Mr. Chairman. First, to realize that your answer is clear to me and I don't think it's a good idea to introduce this practice. So your answer is, when we move to the next point – Parliament issues and initiatives, MPs, eventually, if he proposes five initiatives and only verbally explains it without any further explanation that in the written form of delivery, as was the custom so far, it will be enough at the next session fine enough to take over the stenogram and that it will be on the agenda of the next session in order of five, ten, twenty such points of the agenda. So you have concluded that more written, reasoned material does not apply in this House. All right. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31604	I don't want to interrupt you, but in order to not report back to the replica, I want to introduce you to distinguish the initiative from the draft agenda. The draft agenda at this session requires material for the initiative, if adopted by Parliament, we will see who is in charge of obtaining material. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31605	We understand each other completely. So it's clear what practice you're introducing, and at the next session or at one of the next, you'll get a chance to get into the materials of five, six, ten points of the agenda, and then we'll put it on the agenda, so we'll plead, etc. Whether it's good or not, that's a different story. 4 As far as this response is concerned by the president of the Party of BiH's Club of Representatives, it is clear that she did not have to answer this question, as it is clear that we of the SDP are also asking the Party's MPs' Club for BiH if they are behind such an act? And non-response is the answer, in a way. The appropriate answer is, Mr. Remzija Kadrić, what will come if this goes into the agenda. The past has not passed, and we have the right to propose initiatives. Time has changed, in the past 12 months a lot has changed, more newspaper contributions that speak today about the crime of some other parties than SDP, although unlike Bahtić, I do not think that I judge and decide, have competent authorities in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31606	Thank you. I want to tell all MPs that no new practice has been introduced. When the initiative comes with the Commission's opinion, it's a part of the agenda. When the draft agenda comes with the material, that's the agenda point. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is negative. We can adopt an opinion and that won't be the point of the agenda. So this is no precedent or new practice, this is what we've been doing so far. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know, but you have the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. In the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, you can re-percussion and say, we adopt an opinion, there will be no agenda point. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31608	As an MP, I launched an initiative which is entirely my right, so far we have had the X initiative, especially Mr Bećirović. And I, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, said that at the time, was the top theme, having stenograms of recorded SDP talks. Is this a direct undermining of the BiH economic system what they are doing? They prevented an investment of 350 million marks. It is my duty, as president of the Commission, to point out that this is a very negative phenomenon for BiH's economy, because that is what all their commissioners do, in all municipalities where the SDP is in power. It is my duty, as MP and chairman of the Commission. And apparently that you've been panicked, gentlemen of the SDP, it's obvious, you've had even some extraordinary closed sessions and have solid evidence, have stenograms, I also have stenograms, you don't just have access to intelligence services. And why are you afraid of something, (if you're with 3 million and 600, come on, you can take 2 and 200 in cash.)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31609	Wait a minute, please, we're not discussing being on the agenda. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31610	We argue because they threaten; I fear you never, nor will I fear you when I fear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31611	I said now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31612	It's my personal matter, if the initiative passes, I'll collect a lot of evidence, share all the MPs with the stenograms...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31613	Wait a minute. Sadik-
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31614	...where is Zlatko Lagumdžija, the ringleader and chief organizer of the ractarian mafia and construction...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31615	Please, that's not the agenda point, we're discussing the agenda. Dear MP Momčilo Novaković had a business intervention. I've already warned.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31616	Here, I'm really in the dilemma of whether this session should even begin like this. So, business is not possible if this isn't on the agenda. So that's not possible in business. So it would be good if we didn't have a discussion. Of course, I'm not really obliged to listen to different nonsense here in parliament, and I'm treating this initiative as well. So, I don't have to listen to this, I would pray, really, if colleagues have the need to discuss this way, to free the rest of us, so let them finish it without a quorum, and then when the debate on this issue comes up, then we'll see how we discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31617	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31618	Well, here, I just want to remind you, I was able to turn down the agenda issue a little while ago, but in any case, I asked if I had an obligation to answer the parliamentary question, more out of respect for my colleagues in the BiH Parliament. And I also just reminded six of what happened last time, more perhaps for a better understanding. However, just in the context of this story, I would not further spread the story, it would be logical, in fact, if we were from colleagues, or from anyone here who disagrees with the proposed agenda, we were offered a proposal to eventually take some point off the agenda or to include some new item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31619	I would like to remind the MPs that the point that has come with the opinion of the commission is a mandatory item of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31620	Well, I have to say, I expected someone on behalf of the promoter, or the promoter, to withdraw this item of the agenda. I still don't know about these three and a half years, or three years, that a contradictory conclusion has been proposed this way, that you form an investigative commission, and then you tell her to determine the extent of corruption. Well, I guess the investigative committee should investigate whether or not there is, no, there is an investigation here, and in the second part of the sentence it has already been said, it has not been here on the BiH Parliament's agenda. I also expected that at least someone would be fenced from this stenogram that appears to be material for this point of the agenda. Look, the man literally listed here, states up various false things, etc., and then says, quote – as some media have written, and, behold, they write today. Well, you know, we all know very well in this country that those who write it, much more in the last 12 months, write about crime, say, Minister Vahid Heće, Silajdžić, etc. They say, I'm not talking about whether or not it's a crime, there are competent authorities dealing with it. Since this promoter didn't think to say so, they wrote much more about it than they did about this and there are more newspaper articles about it. But writing isn't true. They have, I repeat, the organs that decide in this country. So I expected, I repeat, to take this off the agenda, because this is extremely unserious.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31621	Thank you. Discuss, Reverend Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31622	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean to answer on this subject, I thought things would be much simpler to resolve, but I was invited to what I heard here, above all to quote a colleague who found that he had access to intelligence services, when it comes to what is now, and directly suggested that he had from intelligence services insight into something he claimed that I could probably have, too, and that he was doing all of this on the basis of it. I wish to make a statement to this House, I have not had any insight into any institution in this country that has dealt with this case that is implicated here. I had no insight into any document, nor am I familiar with it from competent institutions, competent interior ministries, the D.A.'s office and intelligence that still has only state, at least official. 7 So, I want you to realize that I don't know about any... I also want it to be established that I am an MP, that I am a member of the Intelligence Commission and that I could, on that basis, be familiar with some of the facts that I consider relevant. I find that as an MP and as a member of that committee, I have not asked any intelligence, not one, to give me insight into anything that has to do with me or the people who come politically from a group that I come from. With that in mind, I want to modify my discussion and I want to, I want to give you a discussion, I think this should be determined, I think this should be investigated, I think this should be investigated in the right way. And I think it's time we reopened the way we opened up our time when some people, some institutions and some of us abused state institutions. And then we formed an affair called the "State Impact" Commission. This is the “State Impact – Part Two” affair. That's why I suggest, Mr. Chairman, I'll give you an explanation, and I agree that at point 22, we talk, among other things, about what's been said here. That is why I suggest that it be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the formulation of point 22. Let me remind you, under Articles 29 and 30. Rules of Procedure, in the formulation of the agenda point, objectives and tasks must be known. I'm going to give you a slight transformation of this point. I suggest we make a point of point 22, and I suggest that it be, that what is proposed to be determined, but that all that is said here today be determined. I'll dati you writing, now I'm reading to you, what's called a point, a mild preformation, believe it or not, you just have to move five sentences forward, words, sorry, five words forward, and everything's fine. I'll explain to you both the goals and the tasks. Let me repeat, to confirm, once again, in front of this House, when this case is at stake, we, as a political party, asked the state institutions to do their job without pressure and, as soon as possible, to go public, to the competent institutions with what is true about this case and to experience this judicial epilogue. I responsibly claim that the court epilogue will be such that the one who built 20 thousand illegal square meters in this city, according to his own admission, for 27 million, without even one piece of paper, will ultimately show who did what. And as it is time in Schiller's, an object that was illegal collapsed, so some buildings that came from the construction mafia will be illegally destroyed. That's how it's done, not that any kind of roof fighters are being stripped because, (on the phone, they put them without proper paper), they can't do that. That's why we need to talk about this. I think this is a bad idea, that it's even worse, but I think it's a great basis for law and that it needs a performance, and I'm going to give you a bright proposal. I remind you, Mr. Chairman, I have received three certificates in this House, a confirmation that I did not make a coup, on the initiative of my colleagues, that I am a man whom the prosecution and the competent institutions declare as head of organised crime, I have received confirmation, as a parliamentary question, that I am not and that no investigation is being conducted against a man named Zlatko Lagumdžija and I have received a third confirmation here, that I am not a man who denies tax obligations, but I am the only one here who has confirmed that, since the war is over, I have paid everything and one tax mark on all the legal incomes that I have shown. I want a fourth confirmation, let's see where we are. I suggest that the point is called, Mr. Chairman, – The formation of an investigative committee of the House of Representatives to determine behaviour, you see the same, and the extent of corruption in the bodies of 8 authorities, therefore, to all authorities, you know what the police, the prosecution, the court, the competent municipalities, the competent city, the cantons, etc., the extent of corruption in the authorities with special reference to the City of Sarajevo and those municipalities whose heads are SDP personnel. So, to create one complete piece of information, an investigative commission that will first take the SDP's. And first take cases in the city and all of our commissioners first, then, point, I add -- and cases defined in the Commission's objectives and tasks. I read to you the objectives and tasks of the Commission: 1. An investigative commission has been formed tasked with examining three leaders from each parliamentary break from the point of view of their property, according to principles applicable in EU countries, under the laws of confiscation of robbed property. 2. The Commission should establish the property situation of those subject to investigation, as well as members of their family, with a view to finding out what they have, as it is acquired, whether the taxed income justifies the property, with a proposal from the judicial investigation authorities for further activities. 3. In addition to nine members of the parliamentary committee, it is up to the Administrative Commission to carry out the procedure and to propose a list of the necessary experts to assist the Commission. It has a foothold in the Rules of Procedure. 4. The Commission is tasked with establishing the extent of corruption in the authorities with special reference to the City of Sarajevo and those of the municipalities headed by SDP personnel. To begin with, the commission should also establish the extent of corruption in the authorities in cases: the government of the RS, the Federation of BiH Development Bank, HT Mostar's recalibration and other activities related to the HT Mostar crime, the sale of the Bosnian Ship Refinery and the selection of a strategic partner for energy in the Federation of BiH. If the Commission considers that any other case needs to be included in this section of work, it may do so as well as for those cases. Why did I list these six cases? So for one simple reason, next to the city of Sarajevo, I wanted to provide what is always wanted here to be at least one third of the RS. That's why I found two from the RS, purely for the sake of equality of both entities in this House, otherwise, I have no other reason. If you feel that there is a case to be dropped, I agree to modify it, by not agreeing to modify the case of the City of Sarajevo and the organs in which the people of the SDP sit, this must be examined. And in that commission, the SDP will give its own member who will be as important as you, and it won't be me. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31623	Business intervention, chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31624	I know you all do, but I just didn't want to say from where I chair that it's gone too far. That we are simply aware that the Rules of Procedure are absolutely respected here, that a point has come in line with the practice so far, that the Commission's report puts a statement on the initiative, which means that this still needs Parliament to determine whether it has a basis, whether we will respect the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, whether we will form an investigative committee and then talk about what it is now... And I deliberately let go, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija talked for eight minutes, not about what's on the agenda, the debate on the agenda, but about the initiative, the investigative commission. He only did it for one simple reason that he can't wait for the 22nd item of the agenda to be here in parliament, and we all know that. As he also spoke about the Budget, what we all saw here, and about the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, where the money was increased, simply caused fifteen replicas here, and we all agree that it is purely abuse and payphones and parliamentary mandates. I had to go out and say it, because I didn't want to abuse the place I'm sitting, that it was already a read story and that you'd free us once before of these demagogue ways of accessing this Parliament's work. If you can't help us, try not to get back at us. We'll come forward about the agenda initiative when it's the agenda point. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31625	First, I fully support SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija's initiative, which he suggested. Second, who, Zlatko Lagumdžija about honesty, is holding a thief, and it's known well, I last told on this discussion of his... (?) U.S.A. microphone not enabled ...so the agenda is, let him tell me where he got three apartments in the municipality center, the villa, the fence of a million marks. It's from that corruption, and I said, Zlatko Lagumdžija is a measure to measure corruption. He's the top racketeer in charge of all of his youth, the captain he's setting up, who nods his head.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31627	Please, with respect, we're being treated.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31628	He also taught us a lesson in morality, and the number one person who deals with crime and corruption. _________(?) 10 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, the court will decide, behold, he already prejudges that the court will condemn him there, that he will be released.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31630	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31631	Is it? A little bit here...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31632	Please, please. Sadik-
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31633	...response the citizens from where you got the three apartments in the community center, where did you get the villa?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31634	Mr. Bahtić, we're going to open that agenda. No more replicas and I'm closing the debate and I'm reading Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 66th and 67th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives; 2. Parliament issues: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers on the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on Classification of Activities in BiH, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-103/09 of 6.11.2009 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-106/09 of 18.11.2009 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-104/09 of 9.11.2009 (second reading); 11 7. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-111/09 of 1.12.2009 (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-4-115/09 of 9.12.2009 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, Law No: 01-02-4-106/09 of 8.11.2009 with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-7-109/09 of 24.11.2009 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-7-108/09 of 24.11.2009; 12. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 13. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Court of Justice by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 14. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 15. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Act; 16. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 17. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Ministry Act and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 18. Annual Information Security Policy Platform (authorised by the BiH Presidency), Act No: 01,02-04-1347/09 of 27.11.2009; 19. Rules of Procedure on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposed military commissioner) – Act No 01,02-34-6-1365/09 of 3.12.2009; 20. A report on the work of the SIPA for the period January-September 2009 and statements on certain issues, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security (Common Commission Act No: 01,02-04-1235/09 of 4.12.2009); 21. Request to condemn threats and take measures to protect Republika Srpska's representatives in BiH institutions, with opinions and suggestions of the Joint 12 Defence and Security Commission (BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission Act, issue 01.02-50-3-1351/09 of 4.12.2009); 22. A statement on Parliamentarian Sadik Bahtić's initiative to establish a special investigative commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary House, whose task is to determine the extent of corruption in the authorities headed by SDP BiH personnel, with special reference to the City of Sarajevo; 23. Consideration of the conclusions of the Research Commission on the establishment of donor funds for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (Commission Act No: 01-50-1187/6-1/1/09 of 16.12.2009); 24 The agreement on the implementation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' Opinion on the extension of the 64th session of the House, adopted in the process of considering the Office for the Review of BiH institutions for 2008 which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly initiates the initiative and calls on the PSBiH House to, together with the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions and the Council of Ministers, form an interresor working group to prepare changes in laws to ensure the strengthening of financial discipline and rule of law, in line with the recommendations of the BiH Office for the Audit of the BiH Institutions and the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." We're moving on to the realization of the read agenda. Point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 66th and 67th sessions Both records you received and I just want to point out that you've all received a copy of the 67th session and an apology of the service due to a mistake. Any other comments on the record? If not, we move to point two, point 13 Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31637	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I received an answer from the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31638	Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31639	No, no, just until the rotation's over, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31640	And rotation, it's not rotation. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31641	No, no, it's okay. So I received a reply from the BiH Council of Ministers, however, my parliamentary question did not concern only the Council of Ministers. I have asked the parliamentary question for the state protocol of BiH, and it is known where it is and where foreign delegations and other representatives are coming in on my parliamentary issue. It is mostly the foreign ministry and the BiH presidency. So, I don't have an answer from them, and I got it from the Council of Ministers who shouldn't have answered me. And the BiH Parliament, of course, has its own protocol, I have asked everyone in that chain to deliver it to me – who organizes it, in what way. And I wouldn't mind, I said, let every delegation join me, if possible, and I'll respond to that. So, I am not satisfied with this response, I am renewing the parliamentary issue in this way, that the BiH Presidency, the Foreign Ministry, the BiH Parliament and all those involved in the protocol on the organisation of the arrival of foreign delegations in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31642	Moving on, comments. I don't have any more reports here, I don't see without, I don't know that, I don't see... Šefik, here you go. Šefik Džaferović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31643	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I received an answer to the question about the funds we received from the U.S. government for the sale of this part of the former Kasarna “Marsalka”’s salary, i.e. campus. And the response came from the BiH Council of Ministers, which said it is at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in fact, to finish that part of the job now. But from the answer you provided me, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or, the College has provided me with an answer, it is clear that, however, the matter at the Council of Ministers of BiH is because it has not responded to the request and the Act of the House of Peoples. I am asking the College to alert the BiH Council of Ministers in a versatile manner in order to finally finish this job and the money goes where it belongs, it is the University of Sarajevo. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31644	Further comments. There isn't. I'm finalizing this subpoint. We're opening up new parliamentary issues. Here you go. 15 And you do not enlist, pardon me, Nanić, for I have asked three times. Did you have a comment? So now I have declared parliamentary questions. I didn't get you, did you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31645	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31646	Okay. Denis Bećirović. Azra, is it a replica? Who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31647	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31648	I'm sorry, here's the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31649	Here, I apologize to the debaters, but in order to make today's work more effective, I would ask, if possible, that parliamentary questions be delivered in writing. I suggest, it's already half past two, it's been decided that we'll be working until six o'clock, there's a lot of agenda points. A break has been scheduled. Here, I ask you to make a statement to Parliament on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31650	Well, here, if there's no more reports, so if there's really no more reports, because we did it the last time, I think in five minutes we can do this, if there's no more reports. There isn't. Well, here we go, four people have been reported, if there are no more reports to do this. Denis Bećirović. Just quick, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31651	As you know, at last session, I invited all MPs to collectively give up our diplomatic passport. Unfortunately, that didn't go away. Yesterday, I officially returned my diplomatic passport as an MP, and I use the ordinary BiH passport in the future, as well as other BiH citizens, although the opposition MP, as someone who warned against coming into this situation that we came into. In this regard, I ask two specific questions and I skip the reasoning of these issues. 1. I would like to be specified exactly who owns the diplomatic passport of BiH, with a special view, except for the name and last name, the date of issue of the passport and the basis for which he owns 16 diplomatic passports. Of course, I ask the question to BiH Foreign Minister and Minister of Security at the BiH Council. I'm looking for an answer in writing. 2. Ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers, MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly own, other than BiH passports, and a passport of neighbouring or other states. Same question to these two addresses, and I'm delivering it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31652	Thank you. Very short. If you've followed the press, another MP has returned, but only it's now registered in the media, and it's likely to be yours. Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31653	I thank you, Chairman. Here, just because of the stenogram, and I will refer two parliamentary questions and deliver them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31654	Thank you. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31655	I'll be brief, I won't be able to explain myself. I wonder – When will the Council of Ministers of BiH consider the proposal for a regulation on the internal organisation of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH? It is a very important agency that we have since the earlier obligation to implement a complete law, so I would pray that the Council of Ministers of BiH declares this, when it will be adopted, has been removed from the agenda four times already.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31656	And we still have Vesna Šain. Here you go, Mrs. Šain.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31657	The Honorable Chairman. My question is this – I moliti the Economic Planning Direkcija to provide me with information on the decline, i.e. the growth of industrial production in the RS and the Federation of BiH with the guidance of the largest industrial producers in 2009. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31658	So this way we've exhausted this point of the agenda. We have to make a deal now. I suggest that we take a break right now, not wait until two o'clock, that we don't start discussing Criminal Law and end it with a break, say, at 14.20 p.m. Is that enough? _________(?) You got it. So start at 14.20, now it's 13.35. At 2.20 p.m., we'll proceed. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31660	My fellow Members and fellow Members, please continue our work. Point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Law to parliamentary procedure on 23.12., requiring consideration under a shortened procedure. So today we're just discussing the request. I'm opening a debate. We're on agenda three. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02,-02-5-103/09 of 6.11.2009 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31663	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As is known, it is a law on the list of issues BiH is obliged to resolve to meet the requirements for visa liberalisation. In fact, changes and additions to the Criminal Law have been being prepared since 2003 and on this basis, based on records, remarks, suggestions from a team to monitor new criminal legislation in BiH and these amendments and additions, except for the conditions that BiH is required to fulfil for visa liberalisation, contain a number of other provisions, including the systemic nature or character to be changed in BiH's criminal legislation. The Constitutional Commission accepted one amendment at the session and I want to say a few sentences about it now, and after that it supported the whole text of the law. The House suggests that the law be adopted and BiH thus fulfils obligations concerning visa liberalisation. We actually, since this is a second reading, had four amendments to three questions. One amendment to Mr. Novaković and we had three amendments to the SNSD Club, but, therefore, those were four amendments, but they referred to three questions. One question is about this crime of denial, reduction and justification of crime, Holocaust, genocide and other crimes under international humanitarian law. The second amendment referred to a request to delete a member who prescribed an extended confiscation of property benefit. The third amendment also referred to the issue of harmonisation, therefore, to delete the provision of a criminal law obliging the entity and Brcko District of BiH to be harmonised with the Criminal Law of BiH. The last two issues, therefore, are the issues of extended confiscation of property and the issue of harmonisation of criminal law in BiH are direct conditions from the list of conditions that BiH must meet for visa liberalisation and there has actually been no debate in the Commission and these amendments have not been accepted. As for this amendment concerning the criminal offence of denial, reduction and approval of holocausts, genocides and other war crimes, the Constitutional Commission is of the view that the amendment should be accepted. And now there are different reasons why this amendment has been accepted. I'm going to talk about the reasons for a few of us who have accepted that amendment. First, here in this text of the Criminal Law is a non-quality solution and it is a solution that does not meet the obligations of BiH under international legal acts. So, this solution, which we have in the new Amendment and Supplement of the BiH Criminal Law of November of this year, is not satisfied with the resolution of the General Assembly on the 2007 Non-Prohibition of the Holocaust, does not meet the Protocol at the International Convention on Cybercrime, is not complied with by the provisions of the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide and does not answer the questions that BiH is obliged to, as a signator, answer when it comes to the International Convention on the Prohibition of War Discrimination. 19 Why isn’t he answering? It does not respond because these international acts, as well as the good practice of the modern democratic world, are required to be fully understood, and this is in the function of preventing future holocausts, genocides or crimes, therefore, in a completely clear and unambiguous manner by the states signatories of these conventions asking them to prescribe as a criminal offence, punishable as a criminal offence, any denial, reduction or approval of holocausts, genocides and other crimes. Our case law that we're discussing doesn't work that way. It is the radio text of the September Law proposal. And this law has exactly and fully complied with these international conventions, because it directly prescribed this crime as a separate criminal offence, because it also prescribed a criminal offence in paragraph 2 for those who distribute materials with the described content. The text of the proposal, which fell in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, made it clear that there is a criminal act of denial, reduction or approval of the crimes of holocausts, genocides or crimes against humanity established by domestic or international courts. And according to the First Law, it said that whoever publicly denies, reduces or approves the crime of a holocaust, genocide or crime against humanity, established by a domestic or international court, will be punished by a prison of 6 months to 5 years. It was also stated in Section 2 that the penalty referred to in Article 1 of this Article will punish who distributes or otherwise makes available to the public information or written material on this subject. This is no longer the subject, because the law, which otherwise complied with the conventions, fell, as you know, in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The solution that we are discussing today, and which I say does not fully meet the obligations that BiH has towards international conventions, and, in addition, I think it is dangerous to adopt such a solution, says – firstly, this is no longer a particularly criminal act, but is now being classified as one of the modes or methods of carrying out a criminal act of causing or dissipating national, racial or religious hatred. We now have a provision that says, therefore, is no longer a particularly criminal act, which says – a criminal act of dissent of national, racial or religious hatred, as well as of others who live or reside in BiH, will be punished by a prison of 3 months to 3 years, and then a compromise is made in attitude 2 and says – The work of the 1st member, therefore, the dissent of national hatred, by reducing or approving the crimes of the Holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity, founded by a domestic or international court, will be punished by a prison of 6 months to 3 years. So here, the crime of denying genocide, that I so briefly call it, appears as a manifesting form of the crime of dissipating national hatred. What further means that it is possible to publicly deny genocide, and if it is not at the same time dissipating national hatred, then it is no longer a criminal act and is not a criminal act and that is what is a danger with such regulation and that is what BiH, if this norm would be accepted, does not meet the conditions under these international conventions. 20 For this reason, I personally, and others who supported such thinking, were in a dilemma. So, whether to support such an insufficient solution that can be and dangerous, because this is how this issue would end, and I don't know if it would be a chance for BiH to answer this question again, and BiH must resolve this in the right way, or agree to the amendment, allow the adoption of laws and conditions for visa liberalisation and then join BiH to resolve this issue, so the issue of denial, reduction or approval of genocide and other crimes in the right way, as international conventions require. I think it's better for BiH that we do it that way. I have spoken to my colleagues on the Constitutional Commission and, as far as I have seen, there is a willingness throughout the Constitutional Commission to resolve this issue in BiH, with certain dilemmas concerning it... we have been openly told by some colleagues when it comes to Jasenovac. So there are some criminal convictions there. There is no verdict, as far as I know, when it comes to genocide. We, therefore, are told in the commission and are proposed to simply look for a solution that will, in an adequate manner, be prescribed as a criminal offence to punish denial, reduction or approval of holocausts, genocides and other crimes. And this is, therefore, the position of the Constitutional Commission and I would like, that, that is, the Constitutional Commission's position as it says in the report, so a positive report is according to the law with the amendment adopted, and these are the reasons why I, as a member and some other colleagues, managed when we made this decision. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31664	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31665	Thank you. I absolutely agree with what Mr. Džaferović said. However, we are not here today to discuss which all international conventions, BiH agreements do not meet and did not put into Criminal Law. We are here to see what is needed to be found in the Criminal Law in order for BiH to meet the requirements of visa liberalisation. The member spoken of is not a condition for meeting the visa liberalisation obligations, and is a condition for meeting BiH's obligations to international conventions and the UN. Don't put on any more weight and work than we're asked to do. At the same time, a member in matters, and is also controversial, confiscation of property, is too complex a question to be solved by one member. It has been made unclear, and our position from the SNSD is a matter concerning the jurisdiction and position of the BiH judiciary under the Dayton Agreement and Annex IV to the BiH Constitution. Who is in charge of this country, who and how, in which way should process the question that is only open to this member, is unclearly defined and too complicated to be solved in this way. 21 These are our attitudes, our positions. One is not a condition, and the other is overly optimistic, only to say that BiH has done something. This way, I think we're doing the wrong thing. Our amendments return this law to a possible variant of being in this country responsible for everyone doing their job. Why not give entities the task of solving the problem of confiscation of property? What is the problem with state courts or BiH? What can't be solved by entities? It could also be their obligation, not BiH's obligations, or at least do what the BiH Court of Justice can do in this criminal law and what it is that other courts do. Here, I had a need to comment on that. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31666	Dear fellow chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I need to just give you an answer to one question, Mr. Chairman, which you have asked. You obviously didn't follow my exposure. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Criminal Law that we have before us only touch on a few issues the liberalisation of the visa regime. All other questions are issues that have been observed in practice to be corrected in criminal law by a team that follows, here is the minister here so let him talk about it, and, of course, there are some international conventions. And of course we need to talk, because today we are not discussing a criminal law that in itself only solves the issue of visa liberalisation. He has 100 and some members, and only a few questions, 4-5 issues are issues of visa liberalisation. The issue of guilt, concepts, etc., it's something completely different and it has to be talked about, well, among other things, international conventions. And you've got a fake. The dilemma, the chairman. As far as confiscation is concerned, an extended confiscation of property benefits, a compromise has already been made here, and this has nothing to do with the powers of state and entity. Entities will pass their laws and include in them this provision on which they will speak krivični Law and retain all jurisdiction they have. The state does not take any jurisdiction here, but the property regime is prescribed when it comes to the work of the BiH Court, and entities will by their laws when it comes to their courts. And there's no transfer of jurisdiction here. And that immediately, therefore, we end it, neither tries to take any jurisdiction from anyone, because it is an obligation for entities to comply with their laws. The entities of the earlier provision, which read, from September of the month, and which fell – the Court may in the course of the proceedings confiscate the property benefit for which there are justified reasons to believe that it was obtained by a criminal offence and that the suspect, or the owner, or the owner of the matter, will prove in a special court procedure whether the property benefit has been taken away legally. There was a burden of evidence on the defendant, not on the prosecutor. Now things are changing, radically changing, and it doesn't exist anymore, it's fallen, as you know, right, along with the genocide thing. In the existing solution we are talking about, November 2009, it is said, when a criminal case is being prosecuted for corruption, the court may also take away the property benefit for which the prosecutor provides sufficient evidence, so here is the burden of evidence on the prosecutor, that it is reasonably believed that such property benefit has been obtained by the execution of these crimes, and the perpetrator did not provide evidence that the benefit has been obtained legally. So this is about the burden of proof on the prosecutor and 22 only when he makes the thing likely, and there's no evidence that the thing is legal, then the property is taken away. And this is something, right to tell you, I was wondering if this could even go to the European Commission, a norm like this. And it has been said that there is a chance that this standard will pass, but to use the term very much, it is very questionable whether such a norm can meet the European Commission's criteria when it comes to its request to confiscate the property benefit and when it comes to visa liberalisation. And this issue, as well as the issue of harmonisation, is actually a question from a direct list of conditions for visa liberalisation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31667	The Honorable President, Dr. Milorad Živković, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31668	I want to make it clear here that we are changing Criminal Law in the majority of the members because it is the interest of BiH, and not that it is a condition for visa liberalisation. Then it is clear and loud to say, not to represent this law as the key to visa liberalisation, and only three visa liberalisation members are changing. Then that is clear to say and say that we have a problem with a member and visa liberalisation can only go by emergency procedure, by changing those members. So we can divide the alteration and addition of the Criminal Code into two parts. One part concerning the justified recommendations of the expert team to amend the Criminal Code and another which is required as a condition for visa liberalisation. We have now come into a situation to say that the smallest number of members here is a condition for liberalisation, and most of all the demands of the expert team. We can also say that. So let's leave the law aside, let's tell our Council of Ministers, please, by tomorrow, change three members of the Criminal Code which is a condition for visa liberalisation, to discuss it. At the same time, I didn't fall into a trap when I was talking about court jurisdiction. I spoke before that about the complexity of the task. And I'd be glad if you were on the explanation that SNSD delivered here, and clearly you can see what parts of that member we have observations on, gave your answers, to this explanation of ours. If that's wrong, tell us where it's wrong. If we're right, let's see how we can fix it. Here, these are our attitudes. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31669	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the guests. We now have a very important law in front of us. From various aspects, we can say that it is important because of the liberalisation of the visa regime, more or less, we can say that it is important because it significantly corrects BiH's criminal law, because I must say that not 23 remember that we have long received amendments and amendments to some law more extensively than these amendments that we have today, through amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of BiH. And if it's to judge by the amendments that are defended in this second stage of reading, and after considering in the competent commission, we have basically three questions that, I would say, in a certain way there are different considerations. We have 112 articles of the Law, 111 amendments through different provisions of the Law, we have three articles that are controversial. There are not so far too many people reported to be discussing this topic, which does not mean that the number of interested parties cannot be increased. This is a very interesting topic and it can be converted from a professional, qualified debate into a fiercely politicised debate. I think it's a shame that we don't pass this law today. Having, above all, that in mind, and considering that it is only three questions, I will propose on behalf of the HDZ Club 15 minutes of rest, that in this break we meet an extended college and try to reach agreement on these three conditional issues and that with that position we take to the House and make every effort to get these very important amendments today and supplement the Criminal Law. 15 minutes break on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31670	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at the request of the club, the break shall be given immediately. 15 minutes break. I'm asking the presidents of the clubs at 2/2 o'clock to meet us. [[PAUZA]] Fellow Members of the Parliament, allow Mr. Niko Lozančić first to explain the break in front of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31672	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I personally think that we have very constructively taken advantage of this break. You will be informed of the details by the Minister of Justice, who was also present at these consultations. The only thing left for me is to ask you to refrain from any debate about this law, so that we don't ruin what we've just tried and what we've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31673	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31674	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, at this short stop, I'm pleased that there was a solution that really is acceptable and I'll read it to you, that is, explain what it's really about. As Mr Novaković's amendment was previously accepted, Article 56 was deleted and paragraph 2 was also deleted, in paragraph 3 of that Article, one of the two, meaning, this paragraph 2, also, in this paragraph 3, and the SNSD Club had, too, one amendment requesting that this complete, therefore, be deleted. Finally, there was an agreement in a way to delete paragraph 4, so, at the request of, here, according to the SNSD amendment, so now Article 56 has two paragraphs, paragraph 1, and paragraph 2, because the earlier third paragraph now becomes paragraph 2. I'll read it, so it stays like this, so Article 56. – the challenge of national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience. Article 145a(1) – Whoever publicly causes or dissipates national, racial or religious hatred, discord or intolerance between the constituent nations and others, as well as others living or staying in BiH, will be punished for 3 months to 3 years. And paragraph 2. — When the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is committed by the abuse of its position or by the authorisation of a prison of 1 to 10 years, it shall be punishable. So that would now be a complete article about how he should be read. In the other part, it's all the same, it's all arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31675	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the debate. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31676	When it comes to SDP's Club positions, we are absolutely in favour of visa liberalisation and we have talked about it in recent months and recent years, however, on the road to meeting the obligations to liberalise the visa regime we also believe that some resolutions and conventions that are international character and which oblige BiH. These changes, above all in Article 145a), offered here, do not comply with international conventions. And this should be said very clearly today, that such a solution is not in line with the UN General Assembly's Resolution on the Denial of Holocaust adopted on 26 January 2007. Such solutions are not in line with any additional protocol at the Convention on Cybercrime, on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, and even, even moreover, are not in line with solutions in many EU countries such as Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Italy, Lithuania, etc., because in all these countries there exists and it is prescribed that the denial of holocausts and other aspects of genocide and crimes against humanity is a criminal offence. 25 We are against eradicating the solution from the September proposal, which was clearly much better than what we have on the benches today. It is also evident, if this goes through in this form, that denial and denial of genocide will not be a particularly criminal act and someone has spoken of it before me. So, basically, the message is that still in this country, those who want it, not to say those who have learned it, will be able to deny and deny genocide in BiH. I think that today we should not have missed this opportunity to regulate this issue and it is not good if, on this important issue today, we repeat a review of that famous police reform where we, of course, have made a police reform, and we all know very well that there is nothing out of this reform. It is not good that we have made a compromise on the issue, and it is a rotten compromise that has been made on such an important issue as genocide. I think you should have made very clear provisions in this law that talk about punishing genocide and that should have been done, first of all, for the future. The past can no longer be changed, but this law should have made it very clear to all extremists in BiH and potential extremists that this can no longer be done in this way. I also want to say that legal regulation of genocide issues should not be troubled in this House only before 11 July. It is precisely now time for us to settle things the way that has been done in most EU countries. I repeat, for the sake of the future and for the sake of respect for the victims. Such a compromise on such an important matter, a rotten compromise I stress, I am convinced is not of the interest of any normal man in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31677	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31678	Thank you. I'm not glad that, here's the proposal I made myself, I have to step down. But indeed, dear fellow Bećirović, you are aware that today we are not on the agenda of what you are talking about, so we are not on the agenda what you are talking about, and the pawning of the so-called visa regime and trying to bring down the law, when we are on the verge of bringing it, don't go together. And you have to make that clear to the public, since you're already standing up so much for that public. Don't sell us that story, I have to say, I have to react like this. Because if we're in favour of visa liberalisation, if what we have on the agenda today, which is past the Constitutional Commission, so you haven't made any amendments to this bill, the bill... Today, the amendments that have been tabled are being defended. We only have three amendments to one club and people give up 2.5 amendments. If we provoke them now to say, we won't give up now either. Well, I mean... what do we want? So we have 112 amendments and additions to the Penal Code. For someone to collect cheap political points, let's take him down. Well, if... let's take him down, just don't discuss it anymore. So today we have a clear agenda and let's talk about it. We tried, I thank all the colleagues who contributed to something we could get at this point. These are the amendments and the additions to the law. Who says that in a month, any club, any representative can't suggest even more extensive changes and additions. Here, suggest. It's no problem. Who says this monitoring team of 26 law enforcement won't propose even more extensive... So let's do what we can today. And we will do a lot of things if we adopt these amendments and amendments to the law, because they are really very extensive and very high-quality amendments and additions to the law. So, let's not try to blur it out here, I am for liberalisation, but I'm not for the law, and I'm not for the law. He can't do both.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31679	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31680	It's not true that this is a rotten compromise, this is a good step in which there's a lot of quality content and not just this from the visa liberalisation map, but a number of things that have hurt prosecutors and judges, which have proved to be insufficient, and have been solved by this law, a big step forward. And as for the denial of genocide, holocausts, etc., that's an insufficient way to resolve this. You should have caused riots, caused national hatred to come under the influence of this law, that's not enough. We are bound by four UN conventions and resolutions, etc., to settle this properly. The SDA will make one, in fact, a proposal to commit the Council of Ministers of BiH to make a real law of denial within 30 days, a ban on the denial of genocide, a holocaust, so please support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31681	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31682	Today, as someone said, it's like we're provoking. We are, in fact, re-provoking all the international conventions and resolutions this country has committed itself to. And I'm not saying anything other than saying that we need to meet the requirements for visa liberalisation, but what was wrong with meeting those conditions with the September proposal, Mr. Lozančić? Why doesn't anyone talk about it today? As long as we in this House are in a position not to mark even the day of the Holocaust, nor the day of the victims of genocide, we cannot even ban fascist organisations, etc., etc. And we also need to get our shoulders down and listen to how it's all, as Mr. Izetbegović says, okay, how it's all good, how BiH will benefit from this, etc. This is an opportunity, through this law, to solve some things, and not next year, here, I'm not going to tell you at the end of December, but I remind you that this same story will happen again, just don't have to repeat it when it comes to July 11th or any other date, it needs to be repeated today when we talk about this law and these things systematically solve it, not solve it in a way that it's a miracle. I repeat, I do not think again, in this way it has been resolved in 11 EU countries, and I think that even before all 11 EU countries, we have much more reason to regulate this in BiH right through this Criminal Law. And the essence of the story is that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31683	The Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Niko Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31684	Dear counterpart Bećiroviću, neither the September proposal nor any other proposal to the HDZ Club of BiH and Niki Lozančić was never a problem. And as for Niko Lozančić and the HDZ Club, this and many other laws would have been long ago. And that's why I don't want to ruin the opportunity for all of us to have what we can have today, and I think it's really much more than we've ever had today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31685	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I have to say, we're having a discussion about something that's not there right now. Look, we have adopted the amendment on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is, by the circumstances, my amendment, and it has become an integral part of the law. SDP colleagues have not invested a counter-amand that would give them the right to now discuss how they are discussing. So, if they had invested it, they could now say that they're pushing for it back into the law, etc., etc., and of course explain it the way they argued. But since they didn't do it, even if there was a will for us to do it, we don't have a way to do it because no one has ever made a countermand. That's why I don't think that this debate is correct today under these conditions, and it would be correct if we had this counter-alignment proposal and after that we were discussing it today. I would say then and my opinion why I proposed this amendment, why it was proposed in this form rather than in someone else, etc. But I explained that on the Constitutional Commission, I have no need here. So I suggest to my colleagues that we have a debate and, chairman, that we have a debate on amendments exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31687	kolega went out for that pay phone last time, and I was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure to expose one of the members of the SDP Club, and now we have the same situation. You don't expect me to go out there again and warn that and tell the MPs again that... please. Dear MP, Šefik Džaferović. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31688	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We all know everything well. Things are, therefore, completely clear and familiar, just to draw a few sentences at this time that I have for replication. First, the September proposal no longer exists, he's gone, we have a November proposal that in an insufficient way, and I've explained it, I've arranged this important matter, and, behold, the president of my club has made a multiple conclusion that will allow this country to rightly edit this area and I call on everyone, it's written to satisfy the interests of everyone in BiH, I ask that we support ourselves and that we do this thing in BiH. When a legal solution is said here, no special law or criminal, a legal solution, we will see, will be decided by the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm aware that this is a matter that is very sensitive and subject to politicization. My conscience is clear about that, and I want my country to get a visa-free regime as soon as possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31689	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I am concluding the debate, and I would like to inform the House that we have discussed in the enlarged College how we will end today's session, realizing that we have, in practice, two sessions today and a very difficult debate, to propose to this House that we discuss all the laws in the second reading and all the reports of the joint committees of the House on the achievement of agreement, estimating that we will not cause a big debate, and then we will be able to hold a vote afterwards. After that, we interrupt the session and continue the agenda on January 12th where we left off. No, not just the criminal, but all the points I've listed. That's what I said, but you're not listening, Mr. Džaferović. And if you agree to continue in that direction. Please, we need to make it clear if you agree to continue the session, since more than 24 hours of the extension is being extended, January 12th, in the way I suggested. Dear counterpart Bećirović, a business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31690	Mr. Chairman, is it possible that at least today we can complete all the draft laws in this agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31691	This was an extended college proposal and I'm putting it to a vote, and if you insist I put your proposal to a vote, I'll put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31692	Here, I suggest we complete this proposal, I mean, there's no reason why today at least these laws that are on the agenda don't... 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-3.u31693	Mr. Bećirović, you had a club president at the Extended College, this is our joint proposal. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now, a joint... motion. For 26, v. 1, abstention 1. Enough entity majority. I find that we have respected the proposal of an extended college. We're moving on to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-4-106/09 of 18.11.2009 (second reading) At the 66th session, held on 16.12.2009, the Law was adopted in the first reading. The Commission's Finance and Budget Report was received on 29.12. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-7-104/09 of 9.11.2009 (second reading)
