ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4442	Can we take our seats? We'll start working. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, colleagues from the media, I warmly welcome you all together and open the 29th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 MPs present today. Only an esteemed colleague, Mr. Božo Rajić, is missing who justifies his lack of presence. For the 29th session, I propose the next amended 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Nations; 3. Report on the work and business of BiH Radio Television in 2007; 4. Report on BiH's financial operations in 2007; 5. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH; 6. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services; 7. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment; 8. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Conclusion proposed by Mrs Dušanka Majkić in connection with the Information on Criminal Works against the Dignity of Persons and Morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings, in 2006 and 2007 and the first nine months of 2008; 9. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Understanding on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of BiH (first reading); 10. The request of the College of the People's House for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety and Traffic in BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – Proposers Filipović and Mr Tihić and Mrs Dušanka Majkić; 2 11. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Excise Taxation of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 14. Proposal for a Framework Law on the Foundations of the Scientific Activity and Coordination of Internal and International Research Cooperation (Second Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 16. Proposal for a Law on fiscal registers (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 18. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner for BiH (first reading) – Proponents Branko Zrno and Slobodan Šaraba; 19. Proposal for a law on the procedure for the conclusion and implementation of international contracts (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 20. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 21. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2008; 22. Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2008; 23. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 16. 2. In 2009, with the proposal for a conclusion; 24. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2008; 25. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2008; 26. Report on the work of the Board of Appeal for 2008; 27. Report on the BiH Ombudsman's work for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 31. 12. 2008; 28. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on determining the old foreign savings of BiH citizens placed on the accounts of domestic banks and branches in BiH; 29. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Permanent Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly; 30. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of the Interior and the Public Administration of Montenegro on the implementation of common procedures along the common state border; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of amandman I. to the Credit Agreement signed on 25 July 2002 between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, and the Kingdom of Spain, represented by the Credit Institute Office – Funding the Water Supply System in the Municipality of Olovo; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on readmission or readmission of persons who are illegally staying; 3 33. Giving consent to ratifying the protocol against illegal production and trafficking in firearms, parts, components and ammunition, which complements the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. This is point 33. Therefore, as you have noticed in this agenda, which you have received earlier, there is no proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement, because the relevant committee has asked the College of the People's House to approve the extension of the deadline for the submission of amendments and the delivery of reports to the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement. The House College today accepted an extension of the amendment phase by 15 days from today's session day. The House College also adopted the conclusion that before holding a session of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy and Customs, transport and connections, to say the end, it would try to organise one meeting with the Resoring Minister, Mr Zirojević, and representatives of the Foreign Chamber in relation to this issue that we will have in the second reading on this law. So this way I just want to find out that this is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples. Still, I ask if anyone has anything to notice? Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4444	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, distinguished guests, I propose that on the agenda of today's session, item 5, which reads the Report of the Joint Commission on the text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, because after the adoption of this law at our last session, we thought that this law was passed in a different text than the House of Representatives, so as a House we appointed our colleagues to the Joint Commission for the Consensus of this law with representatives of the House of Representatives. However, the predstavnički of Representatives has done a little differently, in a way that has appointed members of this committee of the House of Representatives to determine, with the relevant representatives of the House of Nations, whether it is necessary to comply with the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in Institutions. So it was necessary, firstly, as one previous question to discuss whether the text was adopted in the same text, this law, or whether it was a little different hence adopted in the House of Peoples. I just want to remind you that through the amendments, we have adopted that Article 3 of that law is deleted, and after that, the amendment of my colleagues, Koprivice, to Article 3 which has already been deleted by the previous amendment and therefore could not be adopted technically normatively legally, nor could this amendment be adopted by his colleagues, Koprivice. This is what our representatives found in their report,...so it was found that there was no subject of consent, it was found that the law was adopted in the same text at both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. We got that report, so this 4 point 5 shouldn't be on the agenda. Eventually, if there is a wish, there could be a notification or notification of the adopted text of the Amendments and Supplements Act in BiH institutions. I assume you will go with such information or such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4445	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Let me just try, Mr. Miro, just try to remove these dilemmas we've just heard. Since we have a complex agenda like we put it together, and we put it on the agenda knowing what you're talking about, because there's been an official report from the relevant committee, and that obliges us to put it on the agenda as part of the agenda. When we get to that point, so we'll do exactly the same as your proposal, we'll take that report, because this amendment is accepted in the non-existent article, it's practically nothing to agree with, but we've got a notice from the relevant committee, and that's what we're going to conclude. So we're going to get to that point that this law, practically, at last session, passed in the same text as in the House of Representatives. If you agree, we're not chasing the order and we're not breaking the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable co-chairmen, distinguished fellow envoys and all of you present to this session, I, as a member of the elected committee, have spoken on several occasions on this very subject of how to present this point today and I have received the assurance that we will only be informed of what was done on the basis of this report and I would like to say that we who were participants and chosen by you, dear fellow envoys, we remain at what we have given in this report. Therefore, there were no items of consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4447	Thank you very much. Not to open now and not to enter into details of the debate on certain points. We'll get to point 5, and then if someone has a need to say something extra and hear from the agenda that you've received and that's what the College has agreed to. So we don't decide on him, I believe that this agenda is practically accepted. We're going to point one, that's ad. 1. Answers to Agents' questions and questions The answers were received, just a reminder, Dr Mladen Ivanić, asked at the 25th session; Mr Ivo Miro Jović, the question he renewed at the last session; Mr 5 Adem Ibrahimpašić, from the 25th session. And now I'm asking, in this order as I've read it, Mr. Representatives, if they have anything to notice. Here you go, Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4449	Instead of answering my question 'when will I get an analysis of the effects of possible introduction of a lower VAT rate on a smaller number of basic products', I did not get that analysis from the Directorate for indirect taxation. I got some report that they did back in 2007, where they say they stay on with everything they said. This report can't be used for this because it's been made: what would be the introduction of lower rates for all life supplies, and they practically put it on purpose, and then it's the loss of 720 million. So this isn't the answer to my question. The only thing that can be used from this response is that the introduction of lower rates for medicines would mean 42 million marks less for the budget, and that introducing bread, milk and basic products would also mean somewhere around 42 million marks less for the budget, not for the budget one, but for all revenues. So it's not that much of a blow. You can tell from this that it's not such a blow to public income, it's just a complication of the Directorate for indirect taxation, and she doesn't want it. 82 million on all drugs, on bread, on milk and basic products, a blow is not such a problem at all, and we know very well that they use it most, these products, the poorest categories. If you recalculate,...you will see that for one two-member retirement family only on medications there are 100 more marks for their standard of living. So I'm not happy with this answer, but obviously the administration has no intention of answering my question that I'm already asking, I don't know, how many times. But I will not give up, I will again ask for the answer and the following time: 'What are the effects of the possible introduction of a 5% VAT rate on... a small number of most basic products?' We still don't have that analysis except for the constant repetition of the views that it's complicated, that they have an outflow of personnel, that it would complicate the situation, and without the arguments as well as why. I intend, not today, not today, but next time I come up with a question, I ask, and I will not give up until I have a precise answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4450	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4451	Thank you very much. 6 One of our enquiries, I say, is because our Club has asked a question, for three who have been sentenced for war crimes against Croatian civilians in Grabovica for 13 years, three perpetrators of this crime – one year and seven months since the court's verdict are still at large! After the third inquiry, we were asked by the Sarajevo Municipal Court to base a request to delay the execution of health sanctions and the court respected it for two, the third still does not know what it will do. And I can only say that I'm not happy with the answer, but I have to hope that at the same time I'm irritated. These days we've had to be a man from a neighboring country for 10 years convicted of a war crime, so it's been an object of quite an impact page and news for 10 years. Three in 13 years: a year and seven months walk the city!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4452	Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4453	Thank you very much. It's about that water rule, I have to be persistent. Therefore, in reply to me, it states that the Agency for Co-operation with the Competent Authorities has implemented the Regulation on natural mineral and natural spring waters, implemented all the legal procedure and delivered to the Management Board of the 7th session of the Agency, which was held on 29. 5. In 2008, so 29. Five years ago, almost exactly, that case was finished and was on the board table. The Management Board concludes that it will not adopt this until the law on tablewaters has been adopted, although the Regulation that we have agreed to do so states that it is the Regulation on natural mineral and natural spring and stone waters. And it doesn't adopt that, but until it's done, I don't even know a rule, and then it's going to go to the Council of Ministers, but only after the law on bottled waters has been abolished. That law is abolished, we're terminating it here at the 9th month, so 3. Nine. In 2008, and others without regulation in the area. And now, instead of... after that, the Management Board adopts that regulation, he tells me that the table water and microbiological safety was both done and said: all materials have been prepared for the Agency's Management Board. But it is very important to stress that the Agency's Management Board has not held a session of 20. 11. In 2008, which is a special difficulty in functioning the Agency's work. So, about this, I'm going to ask one question now or I can ask it right now if I don't get up twice. 'Did these people receive,' as it is said, 'a fee for working on the Management Board of the Food Agency', as they are called after all, 'and for those who set them aside.' We have a completely unregulated, here, one year unregulated that area of dibidus. ...to import, or... to push on this market any water, you have no reason to hang yourself to say that water is no good and that's why. So, the question is, if I don't raise myself twice, it's going to be, "Who are the board members, did they receive a fee for working in this period where they haven't met, and if someone who set them up,... they keep the whole market, all people in one completely unregulated state, will someone ask, well, my people, to change that, if they can't meet to pick someone else, so it's over?" Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4454	Thank you very much. You took part of my job. You've already moved on to new questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4455	Well, I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4456	I've accepted that we've already heard the first question. We're moving on to new questions. Who wants to move on? We'll do it in a row. So the first was Mr. Šaraba, the fastest he was. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dearly esteemed and respected colleagues, I will ask three questions, but it will not be some of my new demands, but I will be persistent and repeat those questions that I have given earlier, unfortunately, which I referred to a year ago to the Council of Ministers, but I have not received any answers, and I do not know why this is so. Why does the Council of Ministers insist on answering some questions? I'd like to at least know if there's something going on in the other direction? So: 'When will the Council of Ministers start solving problems that have hydropower plants in Trebišnica with Croatia's Elektroprivred on the charge of 200 million KM that Croatia owes BiH on the basis of electricity collection?' I have always said this, and I will repeat it and ask the Council of Ministers, because I see no reason why the Council of Ministers does not enter into this problem in talks with representatives of Croatia. 'When will the Council of Ministers launch the work on the reconstruction of the border crossing in Ivanica? After that scandalous decision and finding out what the Municipality did straight at this border crossing when it sold the land on which the border crossing is located, it is now quite logical to ask what will happen to that border crossing. Is he gonna move? Where will he be? And how can people live and work in the catastrophic conditions at that crossing? That's why my request is really explicit and I'm asking to get an answer as soon as possible." And my third question, although I have discovered a space for resolving this problem, concerns persons who have been replaced by the High Representative's decisions, over 150 of them, of all nationalities, in BiH. The Joint Committee on Human Rights is in session of 5. 9. I made one conclusion, so I had to wait two and a half months to write just two sentences as long as that conclusion was made. And now I ask the question: "Is it also what he intends to do to the Joint College on the conclusion that was adopted at a session of the Joint Commission?" Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4458	Thank you very much. We'll take a look at the Rules of Procedure as many questions as we can ask when this item is on the agenda. Next is Mr. Zrno, then Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4459	And I was fast. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the College, fellow representatives, gentlemen ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, all present, I welcome you all. I have two questions, I think I can ask two questions in my Rules of Procedure. The first is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it reads: 'Will the process of printing biometric passports really begin on July 1st as promised to the European Commission, which is the basic condition for the new visa regime for BiH citizens? I ask the question because of legitimate doubts about the scope of the preparatory procedures for this job. The biometric passports are a fundamental condition for establishing a liberalised visa regime for BiH." An explanation for this question. I have been offered questions that have been raised recently at all levels of the functioning of European institutions, both to me and to my colleagues, by Mrs Doris pak, who directly asked this question to me. Simply, the question is based on reasonable doubt in preparation for this job which is very, very complicated, which is relatively difficult and which takes a long time. Simply, institutionalally, the EU is interested in whether the process will begin? Will he go? When will it end? Whether it's going to be years, two or three, it's less important. But in order to take one of the priorities that involves the functioning of the new visa regime towards BiH, in order to, I say, remove one of the priorities from the agenda, then it is necessary for a few days to know all the circumstances in which this work is taking place. We also know which printeries in Germany have already been established and designated for this job, but it is very important that the beginning of the month... the first set of so-called. biometric passports, even at the level of the BiH presidency, members of the Council of Ministers and diplomatic and consular representatives of BiH, and thus one of the burning issues, when it comes to this problem, will be removed from the agenda. This may not be explained in this way and required from EU level, but this is a request from those who are in fact directly and making a decision on the visa regime, which is the EU's interior ministers. So, this doesn't have to be the task of someone who is the European Commission, but we de facto and deura know that this is the task that those who decide about this before us, so they're making a definitive and final decision, so that we don't come into a position because of our own inertity to make this a stone that will stop this whole process. So much for the first question. The second issue is addressed to the defence ministry, essentially the BiH presidency. The question is: "When will the military attaché at the BiH Embassy in Berlin be appointed?" It is unacceptable that we have not yet made that commitment, and we are still, I stress, the only country that has the Embassy in Berlin, and has not filled the place of the military attaché. And by the way, I don't think there's a country on a map of serious countries in the world that doesn't have an embassy in Berlin, a metropolis of European and world-wide 9 policies. And this is the problem. I've been familiar with that for years. Unfortunately, we're still running it as a technical problem. Is this the problem of our finding out or our conscious obstruction of what we must do?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4460	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4461	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present members and delegates of the House of the Peoples, present to the Council of Ministers and other guests and representatives of the media. I'm gonna ask two questions this time. One concerns the Council of Ministers and the other specifically the BiH Ministry of Justice. A question for the Council of Ministers: 'When will the BiH Council of Ministers agenda find a draft law on a fund for the fair compensation of the destroyed property in the BiH war? As is known, this is a painful issue involving hundreds of thousands of BiH citizens and the problem of resolving the war on destroyed property is certainly one of the issues that deserves to be finally systematically and legally approached by its resolution. I therefore also refer the question to the Council of Ministers in order to raise this issue and finally put it on the agenda of the Council of Ministers." The second question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Justice, and it reads: "Is it true that in BiH more than 3,000 convicts are waiting for a sentence at large for lack of accommodation facilities, and what is the Ministry of Justice doing specifically in terms of resolving this problem?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4462	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Any more questions? I'm closing this agenda. Thank you very much. Moving to point 2. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Rančić, come in. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4464	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Following what I was saying about adopting the agenda, I want to distract all of us... in BiH institutions. [[microphone is not enabled]] So we know what results we've come up with. Here, we know and expect what we're going to do about the fifth point. Will we then allow this section to remain in the record in the second paragraph that says 'from the word of the House of Representatives that a single amendment of the delegates has been adopted... Zoran Koprivice, which reads, then the text of the amendment, and then this last paragraph that says that 'law is adopted in a different text', or at the House of Representatives, and that we are going to 'form a Joint Commission for the Consensation of the Text of the Law'. Yeah, I know this is how it was in fact at the session, I'm just saying if we're gonna let this stay so that when someone reads this record, they're gonna ask the question of his validity and what it's making. Will someone say, here, you wrote and adopted this record that you adopted the text of the law in a different form and that you should have gone to the alignment. Or variant b) to say under point 5: that this part of the record does not produce... any fact and that no... law is adopted in a different text, but in an identical. So I want us to figure out this part of the record together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4465	Thank you very much. So, I have to react to that. This record is the actual state of something that we had in the last session. And, the moment we accepted this controversial amendment to the non-existent article contained in this amendment to Mr. Neimarlija, it was not unknown to us, no one noticed, and it was so in the session, in the stenogram it was recorded, and it was an integral part of the record of the 28th session. We have a 29th session today and we will have two minutes on one thing in different ways treated. So today it will be fixed, but in the second minutes, so at the 30th session you will be able to express your satisfaction that this question of yours, which is no doubt, is the fact that it is the state of the 28th session. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My observations refer to part of the minutes, i.e. Article 23. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission on Electricity. Namely, at the previous session, and I must tell you that I have here a copy of the stenogram from that session, at the previous session through my discussion, I have suggested that during the debate and said, it is here and here, that I will make one conclusion, and I have proposed this conclusion, which will ask the Council of Ministers as the competent authority to carry out his duties and that the Council of Ministers,... in coordination and co-operation with 11 competent ethnic ministries, identifys the most vulnerable categories of BiH residents in terms of electricity subsidies. Of course, after my discussion this item of the agenda was concluded, because there were no more debaters, so this proposal, the truth of the oral part, in order to get to the written part – is not finished. I would ask, Mr. Chairman, that given the importance of this conclusion and the fact that the subsidy of the most threatened electricity consumers in BiH and the possibility to do so, because the report on the work of this Regulatory Agency has indeed shown that there is room in BiH for the subsidy and compensation of electricity to the most vulnerable categories of consumers, therefore, I, Mr. Chairman, ask that we try to find a way out of this situation. I have instructed and made a proposal, the truth of the oral one, in order to translate it into a written act and deliver it to you. That's not what I've been able to do since the point is closed, and I'd like to pray that, by not violating the procedure, we can try to find a way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4467	Thank you very much. I'll tell my colleagues a little easier. So, through your discussion at the last session, by discussing this topic we're talking about, you suggested that you propose, and you didn't suggest. I suggest that for one of the next sessions, you fix your own mood with a new initiative in this matter. Anybody else want a word? I'm putting it on the record. Who is the ‘for’ minutes of the 28th session in the proposed form? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? "Contained" for principle reasons? We accepted the 28th session. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. A report on the work and business of Bosnia and Herzegovina Radio Television in 2007 You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The House of Representatives accepted the conclusions of the committee. I'd like to ask Mrs. Čolo, the chairman of the committee to get us into the story. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4469	Thank you, Chairman. At last session of the House, I explained the Commission's report, which was set out at the 22nd session in February this year. And that report states that the situation in RTVBiH is very difficult. The 2007 business report, which means we're discussing today, in May 2009. The Business Report states that the total claims of RTVBiH are 21,751,000 marks. A third of the claims or 36% refer to Federal TV – 7.761,000 marks, with RTWBiH obligations exceeding its claims for just over 7 million. So, in 2007, RTVBiH was doing business with its loss. The report on the operation of RTV under the Public TV Service Act shall be adopted by the Management Board. Mr. Deretić as chairman of the Management Board is here today. They did not adopt this report and delivered this report to Parliament, which made up the meaning of management, with the report of an independent auditor, and with the conclusion that the Management Board did not accept this report, because... it does not show the correct, objective and fair financial situation and business in RTVBiH. To me, the right to tell you is more than tired of me reading this material. I think I read it for the 16th time, and I think it was deplaced today to discuss the 2007 Report too much, because we have already received the 2008 Report, and in this report, the Governing Board finds that there has been a correction of financial reports as recommended by the Revsar Independent Auditing House, and according to that 2008 Report, BiH Television has done positive business with some 79,318 marks, so it has done positive business. Its total income was slightly more than 45 million, and its total expenditures of 44,977,000 and something of KM, meaning there was a certain improvement in RTTVBiH business. Payments that federal TV didn't make on BH TV? The court proceedings have been initiated, as far as we have in this report, as far as we could see. I would remind you once again, so Dom, that article 29. The Law on Public TV Service provides for the Management Board to adopt the report. So it is not envisaged that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts a business report. But it is also prescribed that the Management Board monitors and controls the legality of BHRTV's operations, that is its business, and that it represents the Parliamentary Assembly and the public with annual financial reports, plans and programmes and reports on the implementation of these plans. I'd also remind the House of Article 6. The Law on the Public TV System, which prescribes the obligation to establish a State-level Corporation, that public broadcasters and therefore their boards of directors and their managements are obliged to register the State-level Corporation, and they did not. The House of Representatives, You said, adopted certain conclusions... when he considered this report and did not adopt it, but only received this report to the knowledge, because the law did not prescribe that Parliament should adopt this report, but it adopted nine conclusions that we tried to agree on on on our commission, but there was no consensus and we only managed to agree on two conclusions that we have proposed in our report, which is that the House of People is asking the Management Board of TV to mean in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Public TV System and the RTV Service, which is these are the provisions that I spoke about. So, the establishment of the Corporation and the responsibility of the Management Board and the management of the legality and efficiency and proper functioning of the company on which they are headed. 13 I, we have proposed another conclusion which is the same conclusion adopted in the House of Representatives, which is this conclusion: Asking the Council of Ministers – and this conclusion was lastly objected by Mr Božo Ljubić, because he said that this conclusion does not make sense, but also was adopted by the House of Representatives – to establish a working group in which experts from the field of public broadcasting would be tasked with assessing the compliance of these two laws with the Constitution and international documents in this area, particularly with the regulations of the European Commission, because we have objections from certain members of the Management Board. You know that this Governing Board numbers four members, that one member from the ranks of others comes from the RS and can only come from the RS and therefore we have asked that it means one independent body to consider whether these laws are in line with the Constitution and international documents on human rights and under these laws by the chairman of the Management Board, his vote is a verdict when the same number of votes is, so we had one extensive draft of a member of the Governing Board coming from the Bosniak people, who challenged the constitutionality of these two laws. And that's why we suggested this second conclusion. I therefore propose that the House take this report into account, make it mandatory for the Commission to consider the 2008 Report as soon as possible and to consider it eventually at the next House session and adopt these two conclusions as proposed in our report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4470	I'd like Mrs. Dušanka Majkić to take the word now. We'll assess whether, I'll ask, think about it, Mr. Deretić, if you have a need, we might be happy to hear from you. Here you go, Mrs. Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4471	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected media, more than two years of tape called BHRT is under consideration by four parliamentary commissions. The two committees of the House of Peoples, the Commission for Finance and Budget and the one chaired by Mrs. Čolo and the two committees of the House of Representatives, are still not visible where the end of the tape is. And from what Mrs. Čolo said, you can't see how this Parliament can actually help this house. What are these measures that we need to take to make something happen in that field? When I was preparing for this session, I first tried to figure out where we are. We're talking about 2007, it's just our turn in 2008. The House of Representatives may have made a good move, and perhaps not, they are considering both 2007 and 2008, but I thought that then the trees would not see the forest and there is no difference, so by now all parliamentary commissions have been working year by year. Rarely when we did it in two years. Well, here we are, and for this house we've been working on, for the last time, the state audit or the audit office has been doing an audit report for two years, and we know what they are, what they found in it. What exactly is it? I tried to create a small retrospective, actually to remember what actually happened and where to start, which way to go as Parliament at all. Therefore, 14 The Management Board did not accept the 2007 BHRT Director-General's report, and this caused the rest of the problems that came up afterwards. Why is it, in fact, the board of directors, that I'm next in line with these materials, why didn't he do it? First, the report shows that the directors-generals did not plan the consolidation of the company in line with the recommendations of the audit report, so we are talking about an audit report for 2005 and 2006. So, the CEO of 2007, he had to make that proposal on how to resolve the situation. I remind you it's a negative review report from the 40 pages office, with 40 recommendations. They say a little when a bad report came into this house. And so it required mobility and engagement and management and the board of directors to bring things to an end, to bring them to an end, to do... something that would promise that the house would come out of the state of it. So the board of directors asked the Director-General to do something to fix the situation. Secondly, the Management Board considered that the Renaissance Plan taken by management was not sufficiently energetic because it did not reflect the seriousness of the situation in which BHRT was located, especially in the segment indicated by the State audit. Finally, he marked three major problems that the Office of Audit also pointed out and said: firstly, it is the accumulation of debts from Federal TV, secondly, these are economic illogicalities in marketing and, thirdly, they are illegalities committed in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. And now what's going on in the new audit report? He shows, so the one we're talking about now in 2007, which means management was supposed to prepare, shows that Federal TV debt remained a problem, a decline in marketing revenues by almost 40% and continued violations of the law in the area of public procurement. What did management do? So all the mistakes observed in the 2005 and 2006 reports were repeated in 2007. Another problem that has been raised several times as important for resolving is the issue of putting on the agenda for the debate of the satellite programme. By the end of the term of office, Mr. Director-General had not put this problem to be referred to by the Management Board. Second, another thing he did under the law was to contradict Article 29. The Law on Public TV Service, without the consent of the Management Board, appoints holders of the highest programming functions. So, he himself makes appointments of individuals at the head of, say, the Information Program without the consent of members of the Management Board. Also, when the company’s business activities were developed, the Director-General acted on his own will and on the basis of the law, which is a legal provision that he must be aware of and give his position and board of directors. Due to his lack of co-operation with the Management Board, due to his work that was not in accordance with the law and the Statute of the BHRT, the Management Board adopted a Decision on the discharge of the Director-General on 12 September 2008 and appointed the acting director of Mr Jurjević until the election of the Director-General. As the Director-General appealed to the Court, the Court adopted the first interim measure to suspend all activities in the selection of the Director-Agović and to return to work, not defining which place of work. BHRT's lawyer is now appealing for a temporary measure, followed by the BiH Court of Justice putting a temporary measure out of force. The court brings a second interim measure – I ask you to have patience and listen, just to see which, where we are, in which hole we have entered and how that, in which way we will break out of it – the Court brings a second interim measure, that means the end of 2008, and again seeks to suspend the activities in the selection of the Director-General. In this 15, the Court finds that there is no need to rush the election of the Director-General, because there is Mr Jurjević as acting official, and at the same time since September 2008, the attempt to register with the Municipal Court the perpetrator of the office of Mr Jurjević, so on the one hand you have, say: you have no need, you have an official of office, and, on the other hand, you do not allow that same official of office to register with the competent court. I really can't skip, to say what's indicative of the Court's work in this case. Therefore, the first provisional measure was adopted within 12 days of the submission of the provisional application and the second provisional measure within four days of the submission. So we never had the Court reacting so explicitly and quickly to one request. There's another ugly thing that's really hard to find some excuse. Two members of the Governing Board of the Federation receive a regular fee for working on the Management Board, two members from the RS for a year shall not be entitled to the compensation. Someone will really try to explain to me that it is discrimination that has nothing to do with where these two members come from, but I would really like someone to find an argument good enough to tell me that it is possible that two members from the RS are one of the chairmans of the Management Board who has special tasks, duties, knowledge of what is obligation and how much work stands on the first man, they do not have the right to compensation, so the decision has been made by the Director General. What can we do? This is the year 2007. In the meantime, so there's no CEO, the financial director's gone, erosion from all sides of this institution, we just need to see what that means now, we're going to see at the next point what's the situation in the financial indicators that are catastrophic. I'm so sorry. Perhaps I should have made sure that the Financial Report was before the Work Report, because it is, in fact, the Financial Report best talks about what... was the work of this institution. We've adopted these two benign conclusions, because that's how much we could agree on. I don't know how much that's going to do, and I don't think it's going to change anything in BHRT, but what I'm saying is, all the instructions, especially the House of Representatives, that is, his competent Finance and Budget Commission, are being sent to the Management Board. We need to know that the Management Board does not take the instructions of the authorities who chose it, we have elected members of the Management Board, and what that would mean is that we do the instructions, so we interfere in their work, and they have to make a distinction from politics. And the board of directors... can make mistakes everywhere, but he has to do one thing: if the Director-General isn't doing well, he has to change it. You are now aware that the new position that by decision of the Court of Justice, Mr Agović was returned in the first degree, we will see what will confirm the second-degree decision. But does that mean that he still won't have to respect what is a legal obligation in his work, or does that impose the possibility that the Governing Board will rescind him if he doesn't comply with what his obligations are? So, I think that at this point, the House of Nations has no more opportunities than to adopt these two benign conclusions, to report urgently, and to see what the situation is like for 2008 as well. We received a few days ago addition of the 2007 and 2008 reports which the Management Board has informed us about the new facts that have arisen, but, in order not to enter into the gap and get lost in the mass of conclusions, I have therefore decided... and that these conclusions, regardless of – look, the Finance and Budget Commission did in January, this commission is second in February, today is the fifth month, so I have the promise that indeed the Parliamentary Assembly is tired of the job of 16 whom it does not see the end – so I suggest that this report be taken into account and that these two conclusions be adopted, expecting that in the next 2008 report we will be more realistic and closer to the final agreement on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4472	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So we're discussing this management report that wasn't accepted by the Board of Directors of BHRT. We also got an explanation for why you didn't accept this report... If you are in need, Mr. Deretić, I will give you my word that we will have a complete picture in the course of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4473	Gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, thank you for allowing me, I hope, just a few minutes. I'm going to tell you some very fresh data that I think you should know and that's going to give you a different picture of everything we've heard. Unfortunately, only after two and a half years of March 1st this year did I create an air conditioning in RTVBiH to further enter the financial situation of this collective. And unfortunately, only after two and a half years, which I am happy to announce, we decide unanimously. We figured out, all four board members, the reality of the situation, and that with very exact figures, you can no longer play. On 24 April now, nearly a month ago, we had a session of the Management Board, where we unanimously, underlining unanimously, and Mr. Žilić, adopted adjustments to financial reports for both 2007 and 2008. Those adjustments were made by the same financial service, with the help of the authorised auditory house Revsar of Sarajevo, who was doing business audits and for the first time in conditions where they were allowed to work according to the principles of the profession. And what we have warned about for two and a half years has happened: the financial result has been very poor from what was shown in the financial reports that were submitted to the competent authorities in accordance with the law at the end of February. And I'm just going to tell you two things. In 2007, you saw this in financial reports delivered by management, a profit of 29 000 was shown. According to the financial reports' corrections for the year, a loss of 4.7 million KM has been reported, and the accumulated loss is not 8 million, but has risen to 13.1 million. 2008: Another million losses, not 79,000 and the accumulated debt from 2008 rose to 14.1 million marks. And, unfortunately, that's not the end. The Management Board is aware that the situation is even worse because there was no time to investigate in 2005, 2004, 2006 and that time backwards. And we're also aware that we're also responsible for BHRTV's financial performance in those years. If you noticed, when a recovery plan was made, that the Director General stepped up with some number of about 50 million, which would be enough to resuscitate that collective. I really don't see that money as chairman of the Management Board, I don't see who can provide it, whether the state, whether it can do it from international funds, is at least very difficult for me to say. 17 So once again, we adopted corrections to the financial reports for 2007 and 2008, we adopted them unanimously, they were delivered to you about ten to fifteen days ago, and these are the figures behind which the Governing Board can stand behind anything else. At that same session, we decided to discuss four tenders: one is a tender for the selection of BHRT's asset assessment agency; the other is a tender for the selection of the agency to make accounting policies, which neither we nor at the level of the system; the third is a tender for the selection of a marketing audit agency; and the fourth tender to choose a professional consulting house that will develop the BHRT recovery plan. We concluded, again, unanimously the Management Board that there is no such force in BHRT, because it will be very painful cuts, especially rationalization of the number of employees, and it will have to do someone neutral, because if we could do it, that is, that could have been management – he would have done it. That's the kind of move you really need to pull the loop on. I've heard an observation about what interests us all, which is the establishment of a system, or a corporation. I point out once again: the legal conditions are not created for this, and we and you know it well; all assumptions in terms of the acts that are waiting are ready for it, but until the Federal TV Management Board is elected, it is not possible to do so. There is no legal basis, because this Management Board, when elected, can bring together statutes and register the korporacija and all that the law provides. I warn you of something that will cause terrible problems and I think it will delay the establishment of the Corporation, which is that the Federal TV Act is not in line with the Public TV System Act. Someone very skillfully managed to break the basic principles of corporate creation, someone very skilled in this law toyed with this famous marketing. Some estranged power centers pushing marketing agencies to continue to have blackmailing access, not only to BHRTV but to all three public broadcasters. Unfortunately, these are forces that I've been under the impression are stronger than both this Parliament and this state, and I think it's going to have to include the Competition Council, because it's a monopoly on the marketing market, because already two radio televisions, RTRS and the Federal, are being forced to give discounts that go over 80%. We are the only ones who dared, this Governing Board, not to accept such discounts and such prices and we already know in advance that we will be punished because these agencies – because they hold a monopoly position because they hold large companies – will deny us at least 2 million marks. And unfortunately, that was confirmed, they told us, compared to last year when over 2 million went towards BHRT, they now said, and very openly and very boldly, you'll get 50 grand in this year. But we asked ourselves whether to be classified in that basket, which I can openly say is a kind of crime or once cut even if at the cost of losing which, you see, is what it is. And to conclude, when it comes to the Director-General - I will not mention Mr Agović, the court thing has long been unclear or clear to me – I will say that yesterday we elected a new acting officer at the meeting of the Management Board and yesterday we adopted, again unanimously, the report on the work of the Management Board, and for 2007 and 2008. We haven't done it so far because of all these things that have been unclear to us, which we've seen precisely that they're real. The new acting director-general is Nermin Durmo, the current marketing manager in BHRTV, a man who has already been well referred to in the problem I was talking about. And we think he'll have the strength and the fighting to solve some key problems. You've heard the rest from the Members of Parliament. 18 So, to finish, for us there are only these corrections of financial reports, they have been delivered to you. This morning he left the Management Board's report on his work and, it seems to me, that without these reports, it is impossible to draw any more radical conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4474	Thank you very much, Mr. Deretić. The debate is open. Mr. Rudo Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4475	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I welcome the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers. Here, after the address of the chairman, actually the chairman of the board of directors of the Public TVBH, I would like to begin my thinking, therefore, were worth our debates, we see that there is a shift. So, in these last two years, through four committees, and our separate sessions of the homes, and joint sessions of both homes, where different thinking, different visions were heard, and proposed different conclusions with the aim of making the situation very difficult – and therefore presented in the 2006 report and the 2007 Report. - Excessive. So, in the reports that are here on a hundred pages, which Mrs. Čolo was talking about, there is a lot of concern, and we have talked a lot about it, and today I have no intention of burdening you with some of my visions, but what I have to say is, and as a member of this committee that I have tried really to get into the essence of the problem, and by talking to the representatives of javan rtvb, in fact, in seeking a possible culprit and about Parliament's role in overcoming this situation – indeed someone is guilty, something has led to, the situation itself did not lead to a difficult situation, but what... why Parliament was called on, and in its discussions earlier and committed itself, in fact, to help overcome this situation, and in some measures to strengthen the Public TV system, I have actually experienced such a role as a representative of this Parliament. And at our earlier sessions, we have, in fact, committed to the Council of Ministers to take certain steps to resolve this issue. But what's positive, so here's the thing, the board of directors has made another step, bigger, stronger, is, and some things have improved on what, here's what really, we can now figure out here that's good. However, what... should be said today, in my opinion, is that the public RTBH system should stand strong on its feet, should be financially self-sustainable, we will see in the next point. But here, believing that these new shifts are actually going to do that, those remarks and shortcomings that we've been making in our discussions and conclusions in the 2006 and 2007, here's what looks like we're going to have been removed from the 2008 report, and that gives hope, is that, that this RTV system is standing on its feet. And finally, taking into account all the facts, here's the new positive shifts, I think that the formulation, therefore, of the 2007 report to knowledge is best and I support it in that sense and, behold, in some ways I expect that what was just said by the chairman of the Management Board will actually make a better move and a better result. That's it, thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4476	Dr. Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4477	I think the address of the board president today is very important for the general orientation at this meeting. We had previously had a situation that one of them supported one in this Parliament, the other supported the other, and that very skillfully one structure of people because of their interest shared was this parliament to the defenders bh. the institutions and, god damn it, those who would like to attack bh. institutions. The point is: we had an institution that did business with a loss, which had no concept, which made debts that someone had to settle. These debts will be settled in the following way: either they will not be paid if the rest is due to the people who work in BH TV, or taxes and contributions will not be paid if the rest is due on the basis of taxes and contributions, or suppliers will not be paid, or BiH will have to find additional money to settle it. This can one year be transferred to another, covered by temporary liquid assets, but permanently it is not a solution. And I am particularly encouraged that the Management Board has entered these things for the first time, as far as I know, uniquely or at least in what we've had lately, which really significantly eliminates the politicization of this whole story that has been so strongly present here that it is simply amazing. And that's what people used very skillfully to achieve their own interests, not the interests of institutions. I don't think this report should be taken into account, because I don't see, after what we've heard, what we're getting into. We receive this report that the Management Board has made clear that it is not true. Why would they let me know something that's not true? Just because she's on the agenda. I think that we should refuse and make financial effects... some relation to the financial effects of BHRTV do after we get some of these things that we'll obviously get later, I guess, the report on the work of the Management Board, the corrections of the financial report, to determine ourselves then, and we'll probably have to have a more serious debate when we get the recovery program. Guys, these are huge amounts of money that we need to find, in some ways, and then we can only really talk about where the financial institution is. And that's why I think that today, in my opinion, there's no need for us to go much deeper, for me, into this kind of story and analysis, but it's simply my suggestion that we don't accept it, not to take it, not to take it, not to accept it, not to accept it, but not to accept it, because by accepting this report, we know that it's not true, and then we formally enter into something that I don't know what it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4478	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. Who wants another word? We have already entered, so through the debate, if I may say so – here you go, Mr Ibrahimpašić – we have entered the next item of the agenda, which is objectively difficult to separate from each other. We are also talking about legal norms and work, management, the work of the Board of Directors, so I propose that we accept this debate on these two points of the agenda. Acceptable of this? Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4479	Thank you very much. When you see this report, you see this 79,000 profits on the total income of 45 million and it immediately causes you, whether, but also that loss of a million for which you say... income and at this price of subscription, which is far the lowest in the whole environment, encourages me. What was our contribution? And I'm not saying that we were wrong not to let you increase that subscription, because you had that mess you had. Here, now you've cleared it up together. I'm very glad to hear this so that you're all smoking into one, that you're now... and now we could tear off that other part, our part, so we can increase the subscription, at least even it with our neighbors, and then we won't have any more problems for you. It's not going to be a question, or here, as far as it's concerned, here's how much I've included that 14 million, and I think it's a good number and it's a real number all these years, and you're going to slowly make up for it through the profit that you're going to make up for. After all, you have property that is very valuable. As a loss, in itself, this is nothing, it's your liquidity, and you can only achieve it if we help you and increase your subscription and if your participation in that marketing cake is as good as possible. Since you're all there together now, I have the encouragement to think that you're going to succeed, and we're going to try to make our contribution, so let's increase that subscription. And... all the things we talked about, I'm saying, some ore is certain it's not crazy... or what we've been dealing with, although we as a Parliament have only you there. And, in my opinion, I'd do a lot... if what's wrong with you, it's no good for the one we put in there... throwing someone else until someone else... finds who's gonna be able to solve that thing there. Here, thank Bog, so you solved it, we don't have that problem anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4480	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno, then Mr. Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4481	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4482	Is it the replica? Yes, we'll give priority to the replica. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4483	: Dear counterpart Ibrahimpašić said that if there were to be an increase in the subscription, the income part would increase greatly and stabilise the situation in RTTV. I think that this should not happen but should do something else, which is: we should do it to satisfy all the cultural, national, civilizational needs of Croatia as a constituent people in this country to preserve its identity and to stop this disobedience civilisedly and increase the income part of RTVBiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4484	Thank you very much. That question is under way, and I wouldn't be opening up at this session right now. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4485	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4486	Is the replica on the line again? Here you go, ademe.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4487	Well, I'm just saying that this is plus to what I said. So, it's not a guilty allegation. Surely that, and the fool knows, if you increased the subscription to... income, and this would add some oil to that fire to make it better. Therefore, it's not a guilty allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4488	Now we've heard one wise man. As we have united the debate and the financial report and the business, I would now give my word to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, who is the chairman of the relevant committee. We'll hear from her, and then Mr. Zno will definitely get his turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4489	So, since we're already deep into the story of... the financial report, I want a few words. You received the Commission's Finance and Budget Report from the 27th session, held 20. 1. In 2009. I'd like a few things to point out about this 2007 report. So, first of all, you saw that the Revsar National Auditing House was doing, and they're doing different methods than the state audit does. I expect that this year the Office of Audit will take this house for consideration... then we get truly comprehensive, comprehensive and good reports on which Parliament can work. But what I'd like to draw attention to is a few things. The audit board found that there were deviations from accounting standards. What does that mean? It says, meaning for 2007, "the company does not have a prescribed accounting policy that would maintain precise rules of evaluation of specific business events". He says... 'the accounting standards regarding the personal income of employees are not respected based on current past work. No minimum loss assessment procedure is prescribed. The company does not have a full record of TV rights by type of individual values as a licence period of the same duration. The company at the programme demarcation position shall record the purchased and paid TV programme which has been delivered and the one which is not. The company estimated... the financial result for at least 9 million and 700 grand." Well then, he says, another thing that also sounds terrible, that 'BHRT has given two mortgages. First mortgage of 4. 3. In 2004, which was estimated at 9.7 million and... the second mortgage of 9. 8 out of 4. 3. In 2004, which was estimated at 5 million 752. In total, the total mortgage BHRT gave on land, buildings and amounts,... is worth 15.5 million." As far as the workforce is concerned. So, this company numbers 1.004 employees. It's those employees who work in the morning on the Federal, and this afternoon on BHRT. Imagine, 428 was employed in a TV production. BHRT 117. But the highlight is, he says, for asset management, to invest this property that I just said was all mortgaged and 141 workers were hired at that job. They're companies that make traffic, I don't know how big. 22 What is the state of fulfillment of the obligation to employees? The company submitted for them and the M4 form relating to paid taxes and contributions for 2006, and was not submitted for 2002 and 2003, as no tax and contribution obligations have been met. The company did not have an orderly payment system in 2007 because there were no internal acts. Imagine you, this big company that has thousands of employees! Well, I don't know how, if there aren't internal distribution acts, then they're pulling money out of their pockets and paying their employees. I'm skipping public procurement procedures. I just want it to be what's most romantic. The revision of the application of the Public Procurement Act identified a number of weaknesses in the implementation of the procedures. A number of procedures have been carried out contrary to the Public Procurement Act, the non-compliance of appointments has been shown. Imagine, please, the Commission for Public Procurement that exists after the decision, and the other commission that acts in practice – no one is reporting anything. You can imagine how these procedures are done under the Public Procurement Act! I'm looking at it. We've got the chairman of the Board of Appeals here, and I can think of how that sounds to him. The procurement committee did not submit a report to the Public Procurement Agency on the procedures carried out which its legal obligation exists. Chaos. And finally, the findings of the audit house that the main risks facing this house are the credit risk that they will not be able to meet their obligations and that the other side will cause loss. So, beware, those of you who cooperate with this company, that means in translation. The next is interest risk, the risk that the cost of interest on financial instruments will be changed over the period, as we can see, and the risk of liquidity. The company does not have satisfactory liquidity indicators. Here, I said it, we're at the end, the Commission has reached five conclusions. First conclusion: 'The people's home requires the Management Board to make an assessment of BHRT's assets and to draw up a proposal for measures to get out of the existing situation.' As I heard from what Mr. Deretić said, it is one of the things that the Management Board has already launched. The second thing is: 'The People's House believes that the 2007 report on the audit of BHRT Public TV Service is to be sent to the Prosecutor's Office.' treći, ‘The house of the people owes the emitters to bring their petitions together.’ This conclusion, therefore, has been adopted by the Commission, but I really think that this is a legal obligation and that this fulfilment of the legal obligation should not be the conclusion of Parliament. Fourth conclusion: 'The House of People orders the Management Board to take action to increase revenues from marketing.' And that's the same legal obligation. We cannot order what is a legal obligation to the board of directors. 23 But this fifth conclusion, I think, is the essence: 'The people's home obliges the BiH Competition Council to take action to prevent the monopoly on the marketing market for public services in BiH.' And I think the konkurencijski Council should address these problems that are evident, not only in BHRT but in all broadcasters, and that it may be a crucial conclusion for this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4490	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. We're continuing the debate. Mr. Rančić. No, no, Mr. Zno, I apologize deeply, here's a deep apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4491	Thank you, Chairman, although right now, honestly speaking, I don't know where I am. We were just up there, now we're already on the fourth item of the agenda thanks to Mrs. Dušanka, but it doesn't matter. I had no intention of talking about these materials anyway. I absolutely accept that proposal to accept both the report and the other report, and especially, I might have gotten into the debate because... I've been a firm through our commission a long time ago and I might say, I'd get into a broad debate, but I won't. I will not, first of all, thank you and it is well, the chairman, that you invited Mr. Deretic's Parliament to speak and it seems to me that a line has been drawn for or behind the period we can simply call, when it comes to TV BiH, by a period of train without a timetable. If nothing else, if the situation is still difficult, especially financially, we're out of the other one without a timetable, and that's good. And it's good, Mr. Deretić, that you came in today and said what you said, if anything else, what your colleague Ivanić said, if nothing else makes it easier for us to determine, we, in fact, believe that the system we're talking about has a chance, has a normal chance. That's it. And I'd like to support Mrs. Alma, Mrs. Dušanka, to my colleague Vidović, with that, Mladen, I think that we can absolutely determine ourselves here in the way that she's proposed, means to take in knowledge. By taking in knowledge, essentially, we do not enter into the metrics, we do not even measure what we receive to know, we simply perceive the content without assessing its validity, without assessing its consistency, its regularity, its accuracy, its accuracy, etc.. To vote on him, well, that's another thing. Then we determine ourselves according to content and its validity. In this case, we receive, simply perceiving what has come to us, in front of us, because the next report that is coming, already for 2008, will in itself deny the parts, and especially those of whom Mr Deretić spoke about, will deny the parts that contain... this report. And that's why we're obliged to make this report known, but we took a formula that's not a statement, but a very obvious way, not absolutely into the essence of the material that is, that is, the essence of the material that is before us. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4492	Now I'm sorry I haven't given you my word before, because you took what I was going to say at the end. Replica, Dr Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4493	Well, it's not a real replica to Mr. Zrn. We're just here to define. I don't want to accept this report that the board of directors didn't accept. If the Management Board has accepted the corrections indirectly this report, with corrections, okay, but if it has not accepted or accepted only corrections, then I do not want us as Parliament to take to the knowledge of something that is not true, and it is to be accepted to the knowledge, let me say, an incorrect report with the corrections that make it accurate. Here, to be clear, if that's what I mean, then this was a solid replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4494	Mr. Ivanić, I deeply respect and respect you but I cannot accept that... that I did not hear what I heard. So we've heard: perception is just that. So we've heard but we don't decide. It's: there's one formula to know when it's said: I saw it, but I didn't see it. Well, we heard it, but we didn't hear it, so that's it. That's not what we're voting on. But you have the right to your opinion, even if it wasn't acceptable for us. Who wants another word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4495	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, given all the facts in all these documents, the reports we've been getting so far, we've been looking at the competent authorities, all the things we've heard here today from colleagues and colleagues as well as the chairman of the board of directors, I'm going to try very briefly. So, aware of both these problems and the huge loss that has been shown in the amount of 14 million and 190, it seems to me, and a few thousand marks, I think BiH citizens and all employees in television or, therefore, I will expand a little, and in all three broadcasters, of course, Parliament, we have the right to demand and insist on implementing existing laws on RTTV systems and services and the work of all three operators, establishing the Corporation. Certainly, I mean, we have the right to demand that their work in all segments be legal and professional, so in all segments wherever these remarks are made. I also believe that we need to require management and management to form a programme for the recovery of business, debt and resolution of these losses which was, here we have heard, and the position of one of the commissions. Also, we expect management and management to have BHRTV as well as the other two broadcasters go further in their technical equipment, because we all know that in individual centres, we know that there is one camera, that there are no two events to monitor, etc., which is a minor problem relative to the overall problem of transmission of these data and their technical equipment, that we expect and require that we go in the direction of digitalisation to continue broadcasting 25 via satellites because of a large number of our citizens around the world, that we require management to pay attention to our own production and purchase of a program without intermediaries (this is what we heard from one member of the Board in one of the discussions on the Commission). I can't understand that powerful three broadcasters are buying programs from, conditionally, I don't want to hurt them, but from small brokerage houses. So that doesn't make any sense to me. I think the broadcasters are big, that the state and entities are behind them, and that in direct negotiations with either the owners of those programmes or the large houses that are the owners of the sales rights to buy, rather than through an additional and additional number of intermediaries. And I think we should ask them, which is already said, to increase the revenues from marketing and subscription in one, second, third way. So either the increase, and the increase in the rate of charge and, possibly, the increase in the fee, and also through what the colleague was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4496	Anybody else want a word? Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4497	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Kolegijum, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I think that this subject, and one point and another, has been spoken of quite a bit so far. I have no intention of, as always, discussing colleagues to open up any more debate on this issue for one basic reason: we are at the end of the first half of 2009, and we are talking about materials from 2007. We witnessed big debates about RTVBiH, we witnessed very difficult discussions and debates, so at this home and at joint sessions and, simply, I think we should put an end to this material and take it off the agenda. I hope we find a solution today, so let's get this material done in 2007. Respecting all these discussions, we are witnessing major problems, but listening to the chairman of the Management Board, Mr. Deretić, today, who gave signs of improvement in the situation in this institution, we will have the opportunity to talk about 2008, so we will probably have the opportunity to make a comparison with this material that was there in 2007, it's still kind of fresh, let's see what further, in which direction we should go further. I suggest that from all these discussions we simply accept a specific proposal to take this off the agenda today, and then deal with the material from 2008, respecting what the president told us and to see which direction to go further when it comes to this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4498	Thank you very much for your constructive discussion. Is there another word he wants, or can we bring this debate to an end? 26 So I'm closing the debate and recommending the following. Let us accept this report with two conclusions, better say, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, to take these materials under points 3 and 4 to the knowledge. So without voting on them, we will not plead against them, but we have heard them, and as such we have taken them. We perceived everything, and at point 4, you heard Mrs. Majkić's statement to accept the conclusion under 1st, 2nd and 5th. So, the 3rd and 4th Mrs. Majkić herself gave up on them...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4499	It's not me. It's a commission report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4500	It's Commissional, but I think it's logical to give up something that's a legal obligation not to order them to respect the law, that's what they have to do. I'm putting on a motion statement. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4501	Does this mean that we are receiving knowledge and corrections of this report?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4502	There is no correction to the 2007 Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4503	I have paper in the document, which says, "In line with the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, we are delivering to you the 2008 Financial Business Report, with the corrections of the 2007 and 2008 reports."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4504	No, no, we're not discussing 2008 but we're discussing 2007.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4505	This paper was in my document. So, I've got it. So I ask if this is if we adopt this report. _________(?) 2007 Only in 2007 without corrections. I can't let him know, just so you know. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4507	Dr Ivanic, we receive the 2007 Report and accept the conclusions under point 3. So, the report on the work and business of BHRT for 2007 to take note of the statement, so we are not making any statement about it, but I suggest that we accept the opinion of the committee in question, with two conclusions that you have in mind. Who is "for" this conclusion from the opinion of the Committee? Does anyone have “against ”? ‘Contained’ one. We accepted the conclusions of the Opinion of the relevant Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy under point 3. The material for item 4. So we held a debate, that's the Financial Business Report. We've received it for what it's like, and I suggest we accept the conclusion under 1st, 2nd and 5th of the Report of the relevant Finance and Budget Committee. Who is “for ” conclusions? I'm talking about conclusions. Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? One “abstained. ” We've also absorbed the fourth agenda. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions We've already had some discussion on the agenda. We've received a proposal for this report. I propose that we take this report into account, given the fact that this report of the Joint Committee that needed to be brought into line – this and this commission could not agree on something that was impossible to agree on. There are no items of consent. To conclude that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH was adopted at the House of Peoples 17. 4. In 2009, in the proposed text and in the same text as the House of Representatives 18. 3. In 2009. So, we just had one finding. I mean, we don't say that because last time, Mladen, we passed this bill, but we thought we should agree that we didn't know that we didn't have Article 3 that the amendment was put on. In this way we find that we have adopted this law both in one home and in another in the same text. We're moving on to point six. 28 Ad. Six. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4510	Thank you, Mr. President. As you said yourself, so the task of this ad hoc commission was to bring two different texts of this law into line. In fact, in the House of Representatives he was adopted with seven amendments, and with us he was adopted with 10. I will remind you, so one amendment to Mrs. Majkić and two amendments that I have proposed. And, the Joint Ad hoc commission has therefore accepted our amendment and, behold, we propose to the House of Peoples that, because they have already become part of the text of the law, we accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4511	Thank you very much. Anybody want a word more? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement to the Joint Commission's report. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? One “against. ” "Contained"? The Joint Committee's report accepted. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment You know that we had a debate, that we had no entity support, and the House of Representatives is despite the acceptance of this on the first reading, and we're stuck with it because we didn't have support from the ethic of the RS. 29 In accordance with Article 73(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we vote on the bill in that second round. To remind myself, decisions are made by a majority of those who are present or who vote on the condition that the votes "against" must not contain two-thirds or more of the votes of the envoys elected from each entity. I ask you to decide who's in favour? "For", we have here: five, three, eight, two, ten. ‘Non’? We have five "against". There's no entity majority. So this report, the law, the bill's proposal didn't get support in the first reading. Let's move on. Point 8. Ad. 8. Report by the College Committee on the Efforts of Consent on the Conclusion proposed by Mrs Dušanka Majkić on Information on Criminal Works against the Dignity of Persons and Morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings, in 2006 and 2007 and the first nine months of 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4514	For a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4515	Yes, we vote on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4516	It is a ‘for’ conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4517	Yes, this is a "for" conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4518	Which one did Mrs. Majkić suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4519	That's right. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4520	If you'll repeat, some have hung up, some haven't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4521	Wait a minute. Therefore, if "against" two-thirds and more, the conclusion has not passed. Clearly, this is the second round of voting. Who's the "for" conclusion? Who Is “against ”? The conclusion was supported. The conclusion is... no one needs to worry about this conclusion. Ad. Nine. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent to the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Official Review in BiH (first reading) Also, we had no consent in the College. The decision shall be taken by a majority of the votes present and voting, provided that they vote "against" shall not contain two-thirds. Who's "for" the bill? ‘Non’? Four. The law didn't pass. And, one voice "abstained", I apologize, Mladen. One “abstained. ” So this law didn't pass. Under point 10 is: Ad. Ten. The request of the College of the People's House for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Basics of Road Traffic in BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer: College of the House of Nations
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4527	The Commission needs to be formed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4528	We have a difference, I know, we have different texts adopted in the House of Representatives and with us. The Hrvat club proposes Mr. Božo Rajić, a member of the Finance and Budget Committee. To hear the proposals from the Bosniak Club. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4530	And Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4531	And Mr. Ljubičić from the Serbian People's Club. So, the proposal is: Adem Ibrahimpašić, Mr Božo Rajić and Mr Drago Ljubičić, Commission for the Consent of various texts of this law. Who is "for" to accept a committee like this? Who's "for"? Does anyone have an "against"? 33 “Contained”? We unanimously accepted this. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a framework law on the basis of research activities and coordination of internal and international research cooperation (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The House of Representatives accepted five amendments, a law with five amendments. The Commission has adopted the Five Amendments Bill, which are identical to the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? Two “against. ” "Contained"? The law has been passed. We're going to point 15, that's ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4535	So, as shown in the Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on fiscal cash registers, with three votes "for" and one "against" vote, the principles of this law have been adopted. However,... I must say that the Club of delegates of the Serbian people cannot accept this law because the RS has already done this law for a long time, and at the end of its implementation and adoption of this law that comes after two or three years from the law adopted in the RS would have caused us unnecessary complications, and therefore we do not, indeed, think that there is no need to adopt one of these laws at the level of BiH and we believe that this should be done at the federal level, so that we really cannot support this law, so we know about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4536	Thank you very much. So we are now in a situation where this state parliament has to comply with the laws adopted by the National Assembly of the RS, a little illogically. I mean, that can't be the reason, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4537	There's no need... about the fiscal registers at the level...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4538	I mean, this argument is illogical.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4539	Well, it doesn't make sense to you either, because there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4540	No, I'm only talking about the principle of subordination, the principle of hierarchy, so in this country, etc. Yeah. But it is your right to say as you wish to say. A little reaction as a discussion. I'm opening a debate. Who wants another word? Dr. Ivanic. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4541	What is important is that there must be fiscalisation throughout BiH, and the methods of how this happens are of course different. But there is no effect on any fiscalisation unless it is applied at the level of the entire BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4542	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4543	Whether it will bring entities and have a harmonised or will bring BiH, it is more a matter of legal procedure, but it is pointless to fiscalise in one entity that is not in another entity. And this parliament, if nothing else can, then at least such a political stance must take that fiscalisation is necessary, because all other countries in the environment have it, and that it must exist in the whole area of BiH. How? It really needs to be seen and seen where the legal basis is. I agree with Mrs. Majkić that something that has been done in RS should not be complicated now because it has not been done on the other side. I can understand that. But I'm not so that this topic can be completely rejected, that at least in the first reading it doesn't talk about it. I don't see any reason. We will do nothing if there is no fiscalisation in the whole of BiH, i.e., to be very honest, an entity that will make fiscalisation, in a concrete case, RS will now contribute more if it really covers more income than is said to include, although I doubt it has been done, it would turn out that it contributes more to BiH institutions than that entity that it is not. It would turn out that we are fiscalising, and two-thirds of the money goes to BiH from a total account, so whoever contributes more, under quotes, I'm only theoretically considering, I'm not saying that that's how it turns out that we're doing the fiscalisation so that only one-third of us stay in the RS, and two-thirds go to the other side. But it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter, now I'm not going into this political thing. I think we can achieve agreement that fiscalisation is necessary at the level of the whole of BiH, that only then can it have the right effects and that something should be done. It's my deep, deep belief. I accept this so that life doesn't have to be complicated when it's done in one part, but I think it should be done on another. Is it the adoption of the law, whether it's a debate on principles at least, and then let's see what's out of line, but I'm not in order to bring the law down right now and to prevent any debate on this issue and on BiH institutions, so before the Directorate for indirect taxation is in jurisdiction, and fiscal cash registers contribute most to indirect taxes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4544	Before that, he answered – thank you very much, Dr Ivanić – Koprivica answered, and Šaraba answered. No, no, then it's not Šaraba, then it's Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Koprivica and Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My discussion is brief. I don't think the'Fiscal Cash Act' can be adopted at BiH level, because regulation and regulation of domestic transport of goods and services as well as registration of 36 goods and services covered by this law is exclusively the constitutional jurisdiction of the RS entities and the Federation of BiH and Brcko District. So I think that attitude we just heard from both Mr Ivanić and Mrs Majkić is in place. The National Assembly of the RS, in my opinion, did not transfer that competence to BiH institutions, and therefore we cannot and will not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4546	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4547	I would absolutely support this discussion of Mr Ivanić. We're an economic space. Whether we're gonna do it or not, there's no talking about it. So I am so that we let this go in the first reading, and... if that law insists on changing our law, I'll understand if you say we won't adopt it in the second reading. But if we need it, we need it at the state level, because we have one bag. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4548	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4549	Well, I wouldn't agree with Mr. Koprivica if it were a matter of goods and capital transport in the entity's exclusive jurisdiction. See Article I point 4. The BiH Constitution: BiH and entities are responsible for establishing unlimited traffic of goods, capital, money across the BiH area. So that's the jurisdiction that we and the entities are bound to secure. The issue of collecting income at the state level, the question of indirect taxes, is in the jurisdiction of the BiH state. And what Mr Mladen Ivanić was saying, I respect his knowledge in this area, and the issue of fiscalisation needs to be regulated at the level of the BiH state, because this ensures a better inflow of funds than indirect taxes, which is in the jurisdiction of the BiH state, better control of these funds and, of course, better insight into how much BiH's assets have been achieved on the basis of indirect taxes because unless we have this law at the state level, we will not be able to effectively and I do not think that we are in a position to effectively collect indirect taxes across the whole area of BiH, to collect all the incomes that are being earned throughout the country's territory, and therefore I think that it is a groundless challenge of jurisdiction by the delegates from the RS and that this is the jurisdiction of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4550	37 [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4551	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4552	It's not a replica. I can say one more sentence...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4553	Here you go. Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4554	Lately, it has become a more and more common problem: everything that is not done at the Federation level is transmitted to the state level. So no one was stopping the Federation from doing any of these laws that we're talking about, that are being passed at the state level. But you can't deny the right for us to do something we think we should do. We're talking so much time about percentages that entities have a share in indirect taxes. And we know it's constantly controversial. Now we'll see exactly what that percentage is. There's the RS that cares about finding out as soon as possible. The Federation didn't. She's waiting to be on state level. Absolutely unnecessarily, because the Federation government could have brought in a long time ago today so we wouldn't talk about this at all. So, the fact is that everything the Federation government doesn't do is transferred to the state level. And we don't accept that way. So these are arguments where I'm trying to explain to you what the arguments are that we can't support.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4555	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading. Who is “for ” the bill in the first reading? Who Is “against ”? Three. We didn't get the entity support. We can't agree with that. There's no Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4556	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4557	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4558	Let's get it straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4559	Mr. Tihić is in the building or not? _________(?) 38 [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4563	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces was supported by the Commission at the 33rd session of the 10th session. 3. In 2009. The commission supports the principles of this law and directs it to parliamentary procedure. I think that when it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, it is clear, so the laws that apply and which are in place, such as this one is in office, must have transformations, changes and additions. And here, this is proof that the Ministry of Defense is working too. And that is why I call upon you to support this law, namely the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4564	Thank you very much. 39 Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH. Who's "for"? Unanimity. So we got this one. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, you'd better not have answered. So, with one vote "against" we adopted this law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, in the first reading. We're going to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Military Commissioner for BiH (first reading) – Proposers: Representatives Branko Zrno and Slobodan Šaraba
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4567	This is a proposal for a law on the parliamentary military commissioner of BiH, first reading, we are proposing colleagues of Slobodan Šaraba and myself. I'm just going to translate the title of this bill, it's about the Ombudsman's law on military matters. That's the essence of this law. What modern European armies know, which is slightly becoming a practice in all armies in the world, is the introduction, simply, of a parliamentary institution of a military Ombudsman who will be responsible for his work to Parliament, while at the same time there will be a link between Parliament and the Ministry of Defence, that part of the Ministry of Defence that deals with these affairs, which is an inspection service at the Ministry of Defence. The individual's function, i.e. his cabinet, will not be limited to anything, so he will have absolute independence in his work, and for his work will be exclusively in line with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I call on you to support this law in your first reading, and everything that seems to you is not good in it, too, I ask you and I call on you to fix the amendments to this law for a second reading. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4568	Thank you very much. Is there a need for another promoter? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm going to say a few sentences about this law, since I'm one of the proposings. The idea of getting this law and the idea of entering its realization was when members of the Joint Commission visited the institutions of defence and security of the Federal Republic of Germany and the state institutions of that country. During our stay... we met the Ombudsman institution for military matters in the country and since then an idea and initiative has been launched to reach a similar institution in BiH, which will allow the rights of members of national minorities to be protected in a better and better way than they are now. Therefore, the adoption of this law will allow for a higher degree of protection of the rights of members of national minorities. Access to information related to the Ministry of Defence will be much faster and more effective. The inspection and inspection of the BiH Armed Forces units will be in one more stage. So, this institution is a novelty and I am convinced that it will find its place under the sun here in BiH, and that with its quality work this institution will allow for a greater, better, better and more effective degree of protection of the rights of members of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4570	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Who wants to move on? Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4571	I would like to ask the promoters one question: 'Does this mean that we are forming a new institution at the level of the state that will deal with the protection of human rights only certain categories of the population, which are soldiers and cadets in the Armed Forces of BiH?' I understand that one Germany, one Bundestag has formed such an institution, Germany is a rich country and has the means to do so. But I don't know how much we need right now in this situation besides the Ombudsman Institution that we have formed at the level of the BiH state and all the problems we have in uniting entity institutions into the state institution of the Ombudsman, I don't see any problem that at the level of the BiH Ombudsman Institution one deputy for military issues, which would be in charge only of protecting human rights of persons at the service of the Armed Forces. Because here, he says, when it comes to funding, you know that according to the Unique Rules of Law, it is necessary to explain the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law – it says here that it is only the salary of this military commissioner. But that's only in the first place, because later he's going to set up an independent military commissioner's office. We do not know how many people will be employed in that office and of course these are the funds that will burden the budget of BiH. And here it is not specified what the amount of funds is and I, believe me, am more prone to the possibility that a military 41 commissioner, an assistant of the Ombudsman, is forming at the BiH Ombudsman's Office. ...and so far the Ombudsmans and entities have had their assistants for certain areas, to form an aide to the Ombudsman for military matters, without going to the adoption of a special law to establish another institution for the protection of human rights. I think we have enough institutions like this in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4572	Thank you very much. This is a new concept compared to what is before us and what the promoters have offered. Who's going to, is there a need for one of you? Mr. Šarab, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4573	Here, thank you. So for a while, I'm going to try to answer a part of the question of a distinguished colleague. Therefore, the powers of the parliamentary military commissioner are defined in Article 4 and what you have said, Madam Čolo, is only one part of what is jurisdiction and what will be dealt with by this institution. The fact that we predicted it to be a new institution because it has space for it, and what you were talking about is only one segment of activity and a description of what this institution is going to do, which is defined in Article 4. So, I have no doubt that Mr. Zno and I have covered everything that needs to be covered during the amendment phase, and I believe that we will make appropriate adjustments and come up with a better and better text. And that with this institution we're going to get something new and more quality than the existing state, I have no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4574	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4575	I didn't want to bother you with much detail when it comes to this law deliberately counting, this is, in fact, what we're talking about today is the principles of this law. He said something a little bit wider. Alma, you're right, this is a new institution, we can find a form like we want to apply it to this Ombudsman that we have, and we can find a similar form in phase two in Parliament. We have appropriate committees where we can place an office or an individual who will indeed be a military Ombudsman. And I simply don't doubt the need to establish such an institution at the BiH Parliament. Just along the way, I was in Berlin four days last week for a call from the German Ombudsman for military matters, Mr. Rod. Not only me, it was the International Conference on Military Commissioners at the General Level, and it was made at one terrible level. What I heard there convinced me more that we were right when we went with this law. 42 I mean, power is power, the German office has 150 employees, ours will have two employees. But the fact is that because of the specificity of their own work, although they absolutely have the right, very rarely, almost never, we also have data from the Ombudsman of BiH, four or five cases where they addressed the office on the threat of their rights. The only thing that works here is to protect human, professional or military rights. And there's a problem. Yesterday, when I said that on Ilidža, those who were in uniform or tied to the military did absolutely with approval. For example. The Amerikanac are now going to each of their own... unit, literally to each one of their own, not in the country, but abroad to each of their own troops with a commissioner like this. So practice simply shows, the practice of which we must be, because we no longer have that recruiting and compulsory army system, we have 10,000 professional soldiers. And fearing for money, I'm not, I mean what slobodan said, we in phase two, Alma, we can correct these things, adapt, we're not so smart about creating the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4576	Turn yourself in, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4577	But it's important that he gets a pass at this stage. Well, then we can all... what we insist on and we advocate that nothing should be left for us, if it's supported in this commission, that we're breaking principles here, because we're giving ourselves the opportunity to, even though I know you're not going to comply with this bill, this proposal. Well, is that right? _________(?) We won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4579	Mr. Jović. Thank you, Mr. Zno. Excuse me, Jović. First he asked for Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4580	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, guests, therefore, I am truly this act when I received it and committed it, among other things, to the signatures of my colleagues, whom I appreciate and whose proposal of course I fully respect. But to be honest, I was really overrun by this proposal. I don't know, of course, that there's such an institution in Germany, but looking at it at first sight, my first experience of this act with me has caused very serious doubt. Well, I'd like to ask the motionors... some of those concerns were expressed by colleague Čolo, part of whom was shown by a distinguished colleague Zrno when he mentioned that a similar institution in America, if I understood correctly, works in the military, or, well, then I didn't understand. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4581	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4582	Yes, but with the military.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4583	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4584	Who? And the officers are Congress?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4585	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4586	Here's the thing, two of us at least removed the dilemmas. First of all, why the special Ombudsman for the rights of soldiers? Why not a special Ombudsman then for the rights of miners, real athletes, the rights of students, the rights of patients, like this to be direct? So this is my first serious dilemma: Is it therefore Parliament, or do we have the right to set out a specific category for whose human rights we will exclusively be in charge of? It's, I think it's, I think quite a question that... I kept as an expression of first understanding and first encounter with this act. And the second thing is, again, I'm probably out of line with this first reaction. I would remind my colleagues from this Joint Commission on Security Intelligence or the Agency of an oversight that expressed a state of consciousness with us, under which our commission called itself... The Joint Security Intelligence Commission, etc., also referred to the fact that we are actually dealing with security-intelligence work. And the name of this institution suggests that Parliament deals with... military, pardon, questions. So, I don't understand, I would like to be made clear to me why exclusively these aren't, as I've heard, not enough argument for me to accept that Parliament is actually obliged to single out soldiers and officers, is it, and take care of their injured or threatened human rights exclusively. So, to exclusively single them out, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if that's what needs to be done, was there any other way that would actually eliminate this possibility of actually turning out to be Parliament's military business, you know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4587	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija. Professor Zno, please respond to Professor Neimarlija. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4588	Well, I don't know which way I'd fit my colleague Hilmi. I mean, they're not absolutely weird raids of people. When we talk about a special category, the BiH Armed Forces are a special category, first of all by the number of members, 10 thousand people, plus by law another 5 so-called. Active reserves. So by that, by that segment. Under the second segment, it is an institution that is exclusively in the BiH state's jurisdiction. And that's one of the reasons why we from this level decided to propose this law. And third, simple tracking of trends, what happens in modern armies. Because not this activity, please, the next conference of members and the same conferences held by the military Ombudsman will be exclusively dedicated to the problem of human rights in one border area or border area that is assumed by PTSD. And they say it's absolutely, only that one reason enough and justified and ugly to say capital, that it's enough to identify a military commissioner in every... existing, of course, this guy, the professional army. I mean, those are the reasons. And secondly, military problems are still, I heard it very well, very, very specific. Very, very specific and closed. And secondly, you're there, Hilmo, or colleague Hilmo, in law, it's good that this Ombudsman first cooperates... he's actually a confessional service, which is essentially a soldier who can't go there to some general, who's headed by some team, is some team we call, what's officially called, some kind of... IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4589	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4590	Yes, it is. So he's coming here. There is, an absolute link is being established with the existing ombudsmans and with an appropriate office at the Ministry. His jurisdiction, his regular actions, is governed exclusively by the Ministry. The dissatisfaction of his/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his dis/ his/ Basically, it's a simple person who's always on display to every member of the Armed Forces. It doesn't just mean a soldier, it means the same thing to the general. Unfortunately, we don't have, we don't have an institute that deals in a democratic, parliamentary way in this country at all, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4591	Thank you very much. So, another promoter, Mr. Šaraba, then Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4592	Well, here we go. One of the reasons why he used to run me in one part of the law is that police reform provides that there is a Board of Appeal as one professional body to deal with only complaints, the Police Officers' Appeals Board. 45 So if on one side we have this one committee as a professional body, then on the other hand we have one military commissioner who will consider possible complaints and the status of 10,000 members of the Armed Forces compared to 3,000 police officers. So we made sure that we tried to make that balance somewhere, and I believe, again I say, through the amendment phase that we'll manage to make proper repairs and bring the law into full capacity, although I think we've also managed to make a significant move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4593	Mr. Jović, then Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4594	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4595	Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4596	... colleagues of Šarabe who compares the Board of Appeals of Police Officers to the Ombudsman Institution. So these two aren't anywhere near the same, not nearly, absolutely. The Board of Appeals of Police Officers is a second-degree body for resolving status issues of police officers after someone in charge of the first-degree resolution, and the official thinks that his right has been damaged, and then he directs his procedure to the second-degree body who solves it. And if only a short sentence of two can not be answered again, the chairman. Well?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4597	If Mr. Jović please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4598	May I, colleague? Thank you very much. Now that I've heard from you, the law is, uh, respected colleagues are talking about high goals and all, but the law is very badly written. It's strong, and I'm afraid this law will be able to achieve what you want, what you want. So here, for example. It is said that this is the parliamentary commissioner and it says in Article 13 that Parliament will put it on appropriate proposals. But look at Article 13, which says the first appointment will be carried out by the Joint Commission, not by Parliament. Now, is this Parliament's military commissioner or is it the Joint Defence and Security Commission's military commissioner? So then he talks about two terms of office for five years, and then again in Article 13 that this first term is until 30 June 2012. Is that these two, two or three, or two and a half years and plus these two other terms of office for five years? 46 Then in article 10 on conditions for elections very incorrectly, incompletely and poorly prescribed conditions for meeting this job. If there's a condition that someone has to meet to deal with this job,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4599	We discuss principles, not details.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4600	Yes, yes, but in principle, the definition of these conditions is bad and it goes in a way to say 'by general terms', so it defines what it can't, I guess it makes sense to say: in addition to the general conditions, special conditions are that, that, that, and in the next position, or in the next article, what someone couldn't do. And in article 12, the definition of salary and compensation. Isn't this the place in the Law on the salaries of all BiH institutions employees? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4601	Thank you very much. We've gone into detail. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4602	"So few words, so many words. We are today discussing the first reading of this law and it is not good to enter into internal solutions. I must say immediately that I am very pleasantly surprised by the proposal of this law, which I will support, and at the amendment stage I will probably have objections and act to make this law as high as possible. What are the reasons for my support? The first is that the BiH Parliament, as well as other civilised countries and developed democracy, has the right and obligation to be, in some ways, a controller or a civilian controller of the Armed Forces. On the other hand, surely, when it comes to military service, it has nothing to compare it with. A soldier is up to 35 years old engaged in the Armed Forces, a soldier is the only one carrying a rifle and where... his life means depends on the use of weapons. He also by specificity goes out, we're a country that's on the verge of entering the NATO Pact so, therefore, what we're bound by the alliance, the military alliance, so our people are going to be exposed to various situations of their rights violations. He becomes the employee of a contract that already stands ahead of him for up to 35 years, as it is a standard of NATO. ... going through this service, it's exposed to various meanings of these influences, where it's also possible that his rights are violated and I think this is one of the ways that these people are helped in situations where their rights are violated, either from a working relationship, or from another segment. And what is crucial, we have chosen to be a NATO member country, 85% have fulfilled our commitment on that path. If this is, and it is, what the member states are doing, then I'm doing that as soon as possible, even in small segments, we become what they do to do. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4603	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4604	Yeah, it's not a replica, but on the way, there's no confusion about what Jović last said. This is no condition for ours, come on, our next NATO trip. It's just, Hazim, I'm surprised you're saying what you're saying. You're a member of the Komsija, you've been on the Commission, you could directly influence the corrections that you've now stated by entering into the essence of the law. You could've done that before. But today it's about principles. Please, I don't think there's any point in even discussing this law anymore. Let's face it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4605	I ask you that you be patient and listen patiently to what others think about this proposal and no offense at all for different views when it comes to principles. We're talking about the principles and necessity of passing this law, that's our story. We don't go into details. Here you go, Mr. Jović, and don't... the chairman of the Commission. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4606	"Yes, yes, I didn't mention the condition, but to see each other."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4607	It would be good to look at the stenogram, but not to go into that debate, not to go in. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the draft law on the parliamentary military commissioner in the first reading. Who's "for"? Who Is “against ”? We got the bill in the first reading. So “for ” was nine, three“ against, ” one “abstained. ” We got this law in our first reading. And in the second reading, we will now have in the amendment phase, this commission stage, opportunities to act on all elements, by all articles, and there are not many. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Proposal for a law on the procedure for the conclusion and implementation of international contracts (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The House of Representatives accepted this bill in the first reading. 48 Mrs. Čolo, do you have a need? I'm opening a debate. Proposal for a law on the procedure for the conclusion and implementation of international contracts. Professor Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4609	It is undeniable that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, but I think we should pay good attention to the content itself. I will remind you that the member here is scheduled, and I am saying this because of the constitutional basis again, the methodology for concluding the contract as a whole is also applied to international contracts that define credit and other financial obligations. We have so far had the practice of ratifying the entity congregations, or having participated in the process. With this bill, it's completely ignored. That's why I'm interested in the position, especially, I think, of a colleague in the ruling structure, of the SNSD, are they behind such a conceptual part? And I don't think it's bad for that procedure to be simplified, it lasted a long time, especially for these international financial obligations. But the bottom line is that's what entities are in charge of, entities are returning that money for projects that are mostly defined by entities. Look at all the World Bank projects, and you'll see that it is. One small part is what finances, returns BiH from its own income, from its own budget, but most of it is entity obligations and entity payments: whether it has grounds for staying involved or not, for other contracts I don't think there have to be ratifications, that they should go through normal procedures and that the law envisioned a certain simplification, which is not bad in the light of my practice as a minister and... And the second thing I have to say is: I think special attention should be paid to keeping international contracts. The disaster is in the foreign ministry, especially from earlier periods that some key contracts, agreements, conventions – there is no, there is no, there is no. I can't name it exactly, but I know a few big key ones don't exist until '97, '98. And I think this law requires that the issue be resolved, but by law, that the law must oblige the competent institutions, if nothing else, the countries are signatories, to try to force us to ask them. Because the unserious country that has no contracts... has joined the international convention, which it has joined, I assure you, there are dozens of those that we essentially have no, one of the members here... predicts. So, I propose that it be adopted and I really ask my colleagues in particular to verify whether the financial form and contracts that are being taken over should be ratified without the participation of the entity's parliaments. I don't think that's necessary, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4610	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. Mrs. Majkić. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4611	I think all good recommendations are desirable, but especially when they come from people who worked in certain ministries like you, Mr Ivanić, and I believe that everything you saw at that time that was not good is probably not good today either. And we're adopting this law today in our first reading, not to deny that everything that you think is wrong, and you have a concrete experience unlike the rest of us, that you're going to make it a complete form of amendment and that that's how we're going to correct the mistakes... if there are. We're talking about adoption today. This law was made like this compared to the law we had. So, we, the Parliamentary Assembly, bring agreement to ratifications, and there is no way of affecting anything. We keep... we have to agree and so far, I don't remember, one, I mean, the law that we're not, one agreement that we haven't ratified. So I suggest that all those who have a good experience, because these are still things that are related to a narrow circle of people and to the knowledge of a really narrow circle of people, to take advantage of your ability and to put all that into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4612	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4613	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, here is a clue to this discussion by Mrs Majkić, on several occasions I have been in a situation where the conclusion of international agreements on the Commission has been discussed, that we members of the Commission have had certain suggestions or remarks on the text of the international contract. I will navešću only one case, an example of the conclusion of an international contract between BiH and the European Bank with regard to the approval of funds for the Neretva and Trebišnica Basin, about a month ago, when we had some significant remarks. And it seems to me that it would be good, and this discussion has developed once on the Commission: that in the process of concluding international agreements, it would be one inter-phase... if the international treaty adopted here at the Parliamentary Assembly to obtain prior consent. So, I say this only as a particular dilemma and as a question to be considered with one of my opinions that, if such an idea were accepted, the international contract in BiH in the BiH Parliament would be short-term and the.../microphone would be excluded/...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4614	Turn yourself in, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4615	Therefore, we parliamentarians would be in a position to make certain suggestions and objections to the international agreement to be concluded in that case. So, in that direction, I am taking the dilemma and I will seek... which I personally accept and I think it would be good for the international agreement to be found here at a certain point in time in Parliament for 50 gains of previous consent, and in this direction I will seek to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4616	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I ask you to plead with me on the proposal of this law in the first reading. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. I agree that we adopted the bill unanimously then, with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Trade, Politics, Customs, Transport and Communications. We also have a proposal for one conclusion. You've read that conclusion, or I need to read it. I'll read it, you haven't read it. The conclusion is: 'Because the Parliamentary House of BiH has not yet completed the procedure for adopting the draft law on the procedure for the conclusion and implementation of international contracts, the amendment phase for this bill is extended to 48 hours before the meeting of the Committee to be discussed.' So our commission suggests that we accept an identical conclusion. Who is "for" the proposal of this conclusion? Someone “against ”? "Contained"? We accepted unanimously and proposed this conclusion and this bill, in the first reading. We're going to point 20, that's ad. 20. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The House of Representatives accepted this bill in the first reading. Is there a need for the Chairman of the Committee? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motions of this law in the first reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted this bill in the first reading under item 20 of the agenda. Point 21 is: 51 Ad. 21. Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4621	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of the Commission, I attended the debate on this material of our commission, the first information, the report. I'm going to stick to a part of the text of this information because for me a part of the text here is particularly interesting because it opens up a dilemma for me and it's an open question to me that we haven't yet received an answer and I don't know if we're going to get an answer. Otherwise, the issue of citizenship we know is a long-opening issue in this country. We've had opportunities, when it comes to the work of this commission, to get a few reports of their work. Both in all and one report so far that we have had the opportunity to see, and even in this, there are sometimes fewer, sometimes more, certain failures in the work of certain institutions when it comes to granting and giving BiH citizenship. And, to put it short, I'm going to be here again and again, and I think, one part of the text on the Commission has been commented by Mrs Alma, the work of the DKP in Stuttgart, and I've been commenting on and here, I'm going to mention that part of the text, and for me, it's an open question and a big gap that we don't have an answer to. And, the second part of the text, which is interesting to me on this side, when it comes to the granting of citizenship to the former SFRY, mentions one figure here, interesting to me, 20,000 people to whom BiH citizenship is assigned by naturalization, and Article 41. The BiH Citizenship Act is provided for further, further, etc. I could conclude from this part here, and for me, it's disputed that we don't know the addresses of these people, look, and we don't know the status of these people, where these people are, etc. At least that's how I understood this part of the text. That's a big and big question for me to give an answer to. Therefore, this is for me, these are open issues for me, in addition to these findings, for me these are not harmless issues, they are very serious, taking into account certain obligations of BiH when it comes to introducing order into the issue of citizenship. We know for what reasons, we know what needs, etc., that I am not opening any further discussion. And, I think the competent institutions should give an answer to such and similar questions, i.e. such failures. Whether we haven't, or at least haven't seen it by now, and I may have forgotten, but I don't think we've had in any of the information a response to these or similar failures of certain people who have worked in certain institutions and I think these are serious failures. I expect certain institutions to react to failures, so people who have worked on these issues and these kinds of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4622	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Anybody else want a word? Mrs. Čolo. Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4623	Well, I would agree with Mr Ljubičić, too, but I wouldn't call it a failure, because from the last report we could see that citizenship was given in some of our DKPs during a certain period and that in those solutions, in the preamble of these solutions we called for a regulation that was passed only after, and a year after such a solution was issued and adopted. So it's not a failure, it's a serious abuse of the position of persons who have made such solutions, so I think it's very large, intentional actions that have caused BiH damage and for which someone has to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4624	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Who wants another word? Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4625	Thank you very much. Well, it's not already, I don't know if I'm going to say it exactly, but for two years, every six months we have these reports, and they're always the subject of attention, and they've always received a passing assessment of us who've been watching it and making a decision about it. But I also want to make a few things clear and make it clear. First of all, it should be said that this is one of the most severely unsettled problems in this country. It is about tens of thousands of people who have, and most often besides the law, earned the right to be citizens of this country. We have still had one question today that we have discussed and with great encouragement heard the rapporteur from the Commission that with the arrangement of the BiH passport, the visa system in application of BiH citizens can be expected to be relieved or even abolished. And I'm not optimistic about it. The key thing to observing BiH in this part is what we have heard and now from Honorable counterpart Čolo – several important things. Today, both in the country and in the world, we find people with BiH documents who are not listed anywhere, and they use them. I will now mention the most drastic example: a girl born in '97, admitted to citizenship in '94. or when it comes to our diplomatic and consular representations in the world, then from another continent is faxed and a written name and last name, father's name, no other indicators, and returned to him in the mail, with his passport returned. He's never seen Europe, not that he's seen BiH. And, then, what bothered me very much, when such facts were hardened, then in the section we had one incident in such reports, for prosecution, says – an outdated case. I don't know if we're going to get serious and say that this commission has done an enormously important, large, correct and honest job. And if God had been the co-operation of BiH institutions that could and should have been a Suport to this commission, it could have done much, much more than it did. But even in the circumstances in which this commission worked, I express my personal gratitude and this is how it fights for the validity of the documents, for the work of BiH institutions and reputation in the world. In that I congratulate them and give them full support. 54 And then came what we least hoped, that the people who faced such a difficult problem, with a series of obstructions, that these people might see that what they had under the treaty had the right not to be recognised by that part of the work of the BiH institutions and that the Council of Ministers did not recognise and that these people did not return, not adequately but symbolically, the compensation for which they worked. And here, for a year it's been dragging on, these people haven't done it. Coming out of this state then there was one, I don't know, by no reasonable solution to be with any ministry that is not qualified to do this job on any element. And we will probably stagnate on these jobs someone else (and I believe it for years) time and our citizens will still not have an extenuating circumstance in the visa system. And secondly, which we won't know for many more years who lives in BiH, and who has the right, and who carries BiH documents. What the Joint Committee on Human Rights has adopted is the minimum that could be provided at this time. Probably the list of conclusions was supposed to be much longer but this is also the minimum we need, and I would like it if we adopted it today and gave full support to the Committee that it is doing its job for what it is responsible for, until another institution is qualified to take over those items and jobs that are certainly in thousands of copies and on the other hand that it is no longer questionable whether it will receive funds for this work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4626	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4627	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't repeat what we've already had the opportunity to hear from previous speakers. Here is one thing, as Mr Jović said, of the really unresolved issues in BiH, one of the issues that must be one of the key conditions for coming into a position for the citizens of BiH and BiH as a whole to get the status or visa-free regime that we are talking about with a full mouth. And, I'm afraid, for a short time, and if we come into a position to adopt certain legal projects that have been spoken about here yesterday in this House, will we, for these other reasons, and one of these is exactly the issue of about twenty-thousand citizens, namely foreign citizens, who have, or illegally, BiH citizenship. So there is one real question before us that will certainly have a special significance in the future, and to whom we will have, whether or not, for the sake of most BiH citizens, to give one greater importance and to find a solution in which to address these issues. Of course, as a member of the Commission, I have had the opportunity to talk and discuss all these issues and problems. I accept what the Commission has proposed in this session as a minimum to Parliament, i.e. both at home and at home. Indeed one huge job that the Ministry of Civil Affairs, when it takes over these responsibilities from this commission, will have ahead of it. I think we all need to give support and help to the ministry that these issues finally begin to be resolved at an accelerated pace. All we have left is the unresolved question of paying the members of this committee. We have had two or three, I think, at the Commission's session this issue on the agenda, and I think that this conclusion that was both the conclusion of this home and the House of Representatives – would be respected in the sense that 55 are compensated to the members of the Commission who have been doing this job for years would be paid as planned and approved. I therefore propose that after this debate, we accept the Commission's Human Rights Report and that we really take a major step forward in the sense that we provide all the support to the Ministry of Civil Affairs which, in the time ahead, will really have to attach maximum importance to this issue and attention so that as soon as possible we have the confidence of both the EU and all foreign partners when it comes to BiH and its citizenship, because it cannot have citizenship for the person to whom it is illegally assigned. Therefore, I propose these conclusions which the Commission has proposed here to accept in the text how...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4628	Thank you very much. In point 2 of the conclusion, it calls for decisions made by both homes in relation to commitments made to members who have done this difficult and long-term job. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. First we'll get to the bottom of the report and then the conclusions. Who is "for" the proposal for this report? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a report. Now, please, let us also state our conclusions. There are five conclusions in this report. Who is “for ” these conclusions? I also find that we unanimously accepted the conclusions of the report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH for that period in the Report. Point 24. Ad. 24. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2008 The House of Representatives has accepted this report. I'm opening the debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the report on the work and the Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for the past year. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted this report under point 24 of our agenda. It's 56, 25th, Ad. 25. Report on the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency Management Board for the past year
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4632	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4633	Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4634	You want one? Here, Alma will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4635	The chairman, given that the component of the Report and the Opinion of Conclusions, I do not know now which side this is on, is page 7, but it is somewhere near the end of this text that has 40 pages, we will not support these conclusions as suggested by the Office for the Review of Appeals, because here it is proposed, in point 2. 'that in order to pay overtime fees to 57 chairpersons and members of the Board of Appeals for a period of 1. 3. In 2007, it means a year retroactive, up to 30. Six. 2008 recognises the right to compensation for each appeal received by 19. Nine. 2006 of 150 KM for each individual complaint. And there are some alternatives. Therefore, we need to be clear about these conclusions because there is an alternative to alternative 1, alternative 2, so we will not support these conclusions that someone charges 150 marks in their regular activity for each resolved complaint, retroactively over a period of more than a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4636	We've, just to explain, we have, we've come forward with the report on the work of the Board of Appeals, and we've accepted that. We have also received a report from the relevant committee which has not proposed any conclusions. _________(?) One conclusion. One conclusion, sorry, one conclusion with the report. Can I read it? The conclusion of the commission, Mladen, is what I'm talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4638	I think he's working things out by us adopting the report without the conclusions they suggested from the Office. For us, only the binding conclusions of the Commission are to make them known. So, to make this a clear formulation: the adopted report, no conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4639	So we have one proposed conclusion from the relevant committee and if we have read it all, we should not read it. I would like to make a statement on the proposal of this conclusion of the relevant committee signed by Dušanka Majkić. Who's "for"? Branko, is that green or is that it? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a conclusion with the report. It's 27: 58 Ad. 27. Report on the BiH Ombudsman's work for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 31. 12. 2008 The House of Representatives passed the report. I'm opening the debate. So if we agree, I'll conclude the debate. I'm putting on a...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4641	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4642	What? Mr. Rančić, you're too late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4643	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, as regards the report on the work of the Advocate's Office, we will support either taking into account this report or adopting this report, as well as the views of the committee in charge, but what I want to challenge in this report is the programme orientation of the Ombudsman's office, under point 3 on page 17, says: " BiH's defence will specifically engage in the protection of BiH's assets and property interests after the adoption of the Law on State Property, which... will be prescribed which property will be owned by BiH in order to take legal action, and after that, the Ombudsman will take legal action, i.e. the registration of property rights and rights of ownership in public books, land books and real estate cadastres, and if it is necessary to file real legal charges in order to protect them.’ For me, this is absolutely unacceptable. This is like the position: when the law is passed, we will take care of the property and property interests of BiH and we will protect them because it is our jurisdiction. So it comes out of this, when that law is passed and Bosnia has property and property interests, then we will set up a defense. No, it's not like that. BiH has its own assets, has its own interests, not to explain it, has its own pravobranilaštvo Generalship and I ask nicely to protect BiH's assets and property interests, and not the way it is and if it is, so we will only then. And what will you do by then? Of course, to protect BiH's assets and property interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4644	Thank you very much. Professor Ivanic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4645	Well, I think this was completely unnecessary. I even think that this attitude, as far as I'm concerned, I accept yours and suggest it shut down. Think about what you've done. If that's what you're up to, I'm 59. So, I suggest and ask the pravobranilaštvo General to withdraw his request to deal with the issue as defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4646	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4647	I may have misunderstood, but I think it was absolutely unnecessary because the D.A.'s office is doing a job that was determined by the court, by the request of competent institutions, giving its opinions and absolutely unnecessary was the story of politicization. You've even opened up too much work here, in my opinion, and I was willing to support them. But I agree, here, if the other members of the People's House are to withdraw this conclusion that it is deleted, to adopt without this proposal, I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4648	Wait a minute, I'm sorry. We'll get out of this situation, we don't need fire. The D.A.'s office can't, we're in the process of discussing our home, and now no one can pull anything that's come into the regular procedure and become an ingredient, so mandatory agenda points. So it's not working. What he has troubled, if I may say so, Mr. Rančić, is removed from the Constitutional Commission's conclusion and you have in point 2. Can I read it? He says, "The Commission has adopted the conclusion that the BiH Ombudsman is subsequently," so there is no report, 'delivers a special report on BiH's assets located abroad, which will list the measures taken by the Ombudsman to protect that property." This is about the property outside. But to remove only dilemmas, we will discuss what is on our table. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, then Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4649	Thank you, Chairman. I figured this out, so it's up to the pravobranilaštvo to take care of the state property no matter how we share it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4650	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4651	That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4652	That's why they were founded. They protect the interests of the state. Here you go, Professor Ivanic, we won't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4653	This story is unnecessary. The judgment determines whom it invites as a party whose statement awaits. If you really think that BiH's Attorney General will plead if, say, the school is damaged in the RS, so what do you think? We're going into property law. It's not a good idea to go into this law. I really don't think it's smart and there's no need. And yet I don't understand what the proposal is? If the proposal is to erase this conclusion, I agree. And to stop the further debate, because we're going to enter the transfer without need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4654	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, we can't skip. Is that a replica or what it is?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4655	Here, let me explain, Mr Ivanic's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4656	Mr. Rančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4657	Thank you very much. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, read the position (1) of the programme orientation that says: 'The BiH Law Department will direct its engagement as professional, professional, quality and timely legal protection of BiH's assets and property rights, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Law of Law of BiH and other legal regulations.' This thing is contrary to this third, without the third first, it's in accordance with the Law on the Defence and I pray nicely.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4658	There, that... as far as I'm concerned, I'll vote to delete the bet (3).
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4659	Young man, we'll take your word for it, then, okay? We made a deal. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4660	Here, I don't know how much I'm going to help, and I don't think we understand each other. I think that even now the Ombudsman is working to protect the interests of BiH's assets, because we see from the number of cases they have done and the procedures in which they participated actively in BiH courts to protect property. We also saw this from the information that came later at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and this conclusion is contained in the Constitutional Commission Report. 61 They provided information on BiH's assets abroad. And there's a series of activities that the D.A. took in the previous period to protect that property. We may not all be satisfied with what has been done, but I suppose that the continuation of these activities follows, and it is a permanent task of the pravobranilaštvo so I think that maybe, perhaps, this attitude (3) that is proposed here, perhaps, should not have stood, because they are next to what is happening on our political scene, and also by the law that is being prepared for the protection of state property, said that everything that is not registered to the state of BiH, and it will be subject to that law, they will take action to register it, because there is a lot of property of the BiH state still being led to the SR BiH, so of course that transfer will need to be done, so I think that my colleague should give up what he proposed, but that is if he insists.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4661	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4662	Please, just for a minute. As far as I can see, this is called the Attorney General's Office's report for period one. 1. 2008 to 31. 12. In 2008, and the conclusions are... So, first of all,... he unnecessarily complicated the situation, except for the conclusion that a report on the work of the Attorney General for 2008 was adopted and singled out. All of this is unnecessary. Needlessly, we are not talking about the plan of your future activities, but we are talking about the 2008 Work Report. So, I think we're unnecessarily involved in this controversy with your conclusions, your programming orientation, so it's not the subject of today's debate. This is the 2008 Attorney General's Office's report, and it needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4663	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else in need? Mrs. Dušanka read the title of the material that we are discussing today, and so we put it on the agenda. It wasn't a question for me for a moment, but thank you for explaining it to us. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute, did I offer anyone else to argue? Professor Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4665	... 62 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4666	Turn yourself in, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4667	... It has been observed here, let's say, that the issue of real rights to property used by the institutions without wanting to complicate them, indeed in accordance with what Mrs. Majkić pointed out, but to remove the dilemmas... and which I have here, I would ask Mrs. Miletić here to explain, if it is established here... it is known that the issues of the separation of the old rights to property used by BiH institutions and its entities are not adequately resolved and that the pravobranilaštvo's office was obliged to participate before this report, earlier years, in resolving all, let's say, the acquisition of BiH property by entities. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm just asking, I'm just asking a question. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4669	Wait a minute, that was the question. Please, Professor Naimarlija, you have referred a question to whom?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4670	Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4671	Attorney General Miletić. Please, Madam Attorney, take your word. Answer the MP, you owe it to us, because you're sitting with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4672	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, esteemed delegates,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4673	Please, please, please, please, ma'am. Mladen man, the lady took her word for it. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4674	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, esteemed delegates, I, since I have received a specific question from the distinguished delegate, will answer this question. The defence was founded by law, representing interests and assets, property and property interests of BiH. To this end, the Ombudsman takes all legal actions and protects BiH's assets and property interests. We've been focusing here just to protect the real estate. In doing so, you did not make sure that the Ombudsman represented other BiH property interests and that it took legal actions and thus protected BiH's budget... in cases where BiH was sued from various legal bases. When it comes to real estate, BiH's defence is self-initiative, and this is also in the legal provision of Article 13 to take legal action to protect that property. The defence was established in 2003 and has been taking legal action since 2003 to protect BiH's assets. You know very well that in 2004, we solved the property and legal interests of Maršal Tito's barracks, that we resolved the issue of property and the protection of its property at the House of Writers, I speak specifically in BiH territory. Well, we've also solved the university, the campus of the University of Sarajevo, and another set of shops, but we haven't listed it all here. We also held a dispute over the protection of property and property interests between BiH, as a prosecutor, against the Federation of BiH, we won the dispute. And not to say, my colleague Alma said that we delivered the Information on the Protection of Assets outside BiH's territory. This information has been discussed on the Constitutional Commission. She was also considered at the House of Representatives and adopted. But you need to know that the D.A. isn't a record-keeping body, a list of these properties. We don't really know what it is, what SR BiH had as a legal... BiH. I have to say it. And it's not in the jurisdiction of the D.A.'s office, it's in other bodies. And, for all we have indications that there was an SR BiH or BiH, we are taking legal action to return to the property. But you do know that we have a law passed by the High Representative that prohibits the availability of state-owned property, which is the holder of BiH. And under that ban, that law prohibits not only the transfer of the right of disposal without... /microphone off/... Therefore, at this stage, the Ombudsman can now not change the name of the name in the land books the head of which was SR BiH. We can't. We'll put... on IDs, or they'll demand a mistrial before the courts in charge when we press charges for surrender in possession of these properties.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4675	Thank you very much. Let's just remove one more problem. So, we have a report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman on the agenda. Someone has received some other material called Information on the state and status of state, business and citizens of BiH. We don't discuss this material. He couldn't have been, it could have been added to whatever you wanted. That's not what we're discussing. And there's Mladen right. The agenda point is quite clear, and this material that we have in addition to the Attorney General's Office's work - we are discussing it and we will make it clear. 64 Anyone else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to the Attorney General's Office for the period from 1. 1 to 31. 12. In 2008. We are no longer pleading for this item of the agenda. Who is "for" to accept the report? Unanimity. There is no "restraint" against it, unanimity. So here's how we went into a discussion about something that's not even on the agenda. It's the 28th Zodka, Ad. 28. Report by the Interim Joint Commission on determining the old foreign savings of BiH citizens on domestic banks and branches in BiH The House of Representatives adopted the Report with the conclusions proposed in the Report and the correction that this committee subsequently delivered. I pray, since there is no here and was scheduled to take Mr. Rajić's word at this point, I ask Mrs. Majkić to speak a few words before we enter into a debate over this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4677	First, I want to remind you that this commission was formed at the request of the House of Representatives and that we were against it, but here we are forced to be members of this committee. The commission has indeed had hard work and unpleasant work trying to get more information than was given to a commission that did this in the previous term. I think all the dilemmas this commission had were made in this one vast material. What I'd like to do is just hang on, it's to organize and just keep it for a little while at the proposed measures. I think that makes sense, because the Commission cannot believe that the data that we have received is relevant, and that is not good when, the second time that a similar commission is formed, the second time it works on different papers in contacts with different institutions, we have again realized that we cannot claim that the data that we have received is relevant for making measurement conclusions that will help solve this significant problem of our society. So here we have these proposed measures and I would say these few conclusions that matter. It means: 'Being in mind that a large number of wartime savings have been lost without savings books, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires all institutions that have data on the old foreign savings to issue duplicates of savings books or other written evidence to its owners, including the type and amount of foreign funds.' 65 So there were a lot of people who changed their last name,... different problems they're facing, they can't verify because they don't have the proper document that would show the agencies that did the verification. "All BiH institutions that have data on the old foreign savings are obliged to make them available at the request of the owners of the old foreign savings and their successors." It's a conclusion that will be difficult to fulfill. We know well, we know how old foreign currency savings are faced with the problem that when they go to one of the banks that are privatized that they actually can't get an answer, because they say, excuse me, please, all the obligations on that basis are transferred to the jurisdiction of these agencies that do, and we have nothing to do with it. So that's the conclusion that I think will be very difficult to meet. 'The Parliamentary Assembly requires all BiH institutions dealing with the role of old foreign savings in co-operation with entity finance ministries, the Brcko District Finance Directorate, business banks and commissions to immediately approach the settlement of the situation in the accounts of the old foreign currency savings with the owners and their consequences'. You know we don't have a small degree of verification of old foreign currency savings. How we will get out of it and how it will be accepted from the old foreign savings. You can see that they immediately sent a protest letter before we finally adopted this report. For unsatisfactory savings, the amount of their old foreign savings has been determined in this way. It is necessary to leave the possibility that they can prove in court the actual amount of their old foreign savings. So, they're left with painful and long-term court proceedings. Under 2. 'The Parliamentary Assembly calls on all BiH institutions in charge to carry out a value-based paper emission in accordance with the applicable laws and rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH to prevent further discrimination against citizens on this basis. The issue of securities of value should be regulated in such a way as to be eligible for savings, which means a fixed maturity, guaranteed cash payment, as well as the possibility of using other payment modes before maturity, in accordance with market conditions." It is also known that in RS it is already largely working, that old foreign currency savings are paid partly in cash, are partly issued bonds that very well quoted on the stock market, so in the Federation is a problem, because here... here the Central Bank did not accept to be a fiscal agent only for one entity. This is where we face this inequality and inequality again. Finally, the state law implies a return of seven years, the law that has been passed by the RS is five years, and we know that the Constitutional Court has said that this is not contrary, so that it should be defined as soon as possible within the Federation that the old foreign currency savings from the Federation should be in an equal relationship. ... 'In view of the proposed conclusions put forward by the Savings Association, the Interim Joint Commission proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly to form a working group that will also provide the Parliamentary Assembly with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enabling of Obligations under the accounts of the old foreign currency savings.' So this is a question that's being asked within this committee, but I'm afraid we won't have a consensus for it, and here, basically, it's one problematic work without enough support from 66 institutions. The commission came across a lot of closed doors and knocked often in vain, so I don't think so, but here we did one job, here we sent one correction, this here refers to correcting certain elements of this report, but I see you got that, too. This is what concerns, especially when it comes to these banks that did not have a domicile place in BiH, so this applies to the Ljubljanska, Invest Bank, where practically nothing has been done. BiH has not done anything at least to make it possible in these bilateral contacts to damage old foreign exchanges like, at least, these as it was done for domestic banks. So, in the formation of each new commission, you need to be really careful, or see what the capacity of these commissions is, what they can bring out in general in their business and what new quality they can bring. I really doubt that, and it would be hard for me to support... or be a member or raise my voice for a new commission that will work again for a long time without any special effects. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4678	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4679	Thank you very much. So, here's a colleague of mine found out, that's what we and the media published that the first two tasks that were given before this ad hoc commission, the commission, to determine the amount of old foreign exchange savings of BiH citizens that were laid down at the expense of domestic banks and branches, and to determine this state of old foreign savings on Day 1. Six. In 2007, we failed because the institutions, the competent institutions that have the information on this, I responsibly argue, did not want to supply accurate and accurate data. And I am responsibly saying that entity institutions in the area of finance, finance ministries, privatisation agencies, Brcko District institutions know exactly and precisely this information, but unfortunately we couldn't get to them. When it comes to point c) of our tasks, my colleague Majkić spoke about these suggestions of our conclusions, so I will only give a review of these amendments, therefore, in the case of a possible vote. Therefore, corrections refer to page 14: point 4 is deleted under a) and b) item (1) etc. On page 15, paragraph 2 is deleted with these amendments, so that this text, which reads as follows: 'The question of securities should be regulated so that this solution is acceptable to the savings, which means a defined maturity, guaranteed cash payment, as well as the possibility of using other methods of payment before the expiry date, in accordance with the market conditions of business.' That part's been erased, right? And these two new conclusions were added... whose essence was approximately on page 14, but we moved them to conclusions, not in this text section, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the competent institutions to investigate who is when and how they spent their old foreign savings." And under the 5th, she spoke about this part of our job, only not to read the conclusion: 'The BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to take 67 measures in accordance with the law to address the issue of old foreign savings in the Bank of Ljubljana and Invest Bank of Belgrade, and to inform it of the bilateral activities undertaken to address this issue." That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4680	Thank you very much. Most of the time, you've read to us what we already have in the materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4681	Yeah, but my colleague used to say, read some things, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4682	Anyone else want to say something that doesn't say in the materials? I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get to the report first. Who's "for" the report? Is it “against ”? One “against. ” We've accepted the report. And now, please, we've heard, Mrs. Dušanka has read three conclusions. Two read by Mr. Rančić. So now we're talking, he even read what's been deleted, we're talking about five conclusions. Two are the corrections first, and this is, the first three are with the revised second cut already permanent. So, I'm putting on the statement of this conclusion that my colleague and colleague read. Who's "for"?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4683	All of a sudden.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4684	Yeah, yeah. That's the five of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4685	...forming a new commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4686	How did you plead? Did you support this conclusion or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4687	I can't support it to form a commission to deal with this again. I can't accept that. 68 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-05-20-0.u4688	We've accepted the conclusions, Mrs. Dušanka. Let's move on. _________(?) With one “against. ” And one “against. ” And one did not say, "abstained" is Mrs Dušanka Majkić's voice. Let's move on. Point 29. is: Ad. 29. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Permanent Delegation... BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly
