ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30974	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 65th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, media representatives, all present deputies and guests. According to service information, and here I have counted several times, the session is attended by 21 MPs, which means that no business opportunities for quorum have been met and we do not have a quorum to continue the session. Therefore, I am interrupting the session until the quorum is established. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I apologize on behalf of the Kolegijum on a 60-minute break, but technical assumptions had to be fulfilled in order to continue the session. I find that we have a very important quorum for full-time work and decision-making. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. I find that the 65th House session has the following
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30977	Denis. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30978	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30979	I have to say, I'm surprised that at this point, after everything that's been going on in the past few days, even today, we don't have either the Council of Ministers Chairman, or the Minister of Human Rights, or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or the Minister of Civil Affairs. I expected and therefore I did not immediately report to hear the opening arguments and from them individually, and above all to hear some stance from the Council of Ministers of BiH. Unfortunately, here we are, neither we nor the representatives of the disabled nor the media, to hear their views on the occasion of this situation. We MPs, we are free to say, this morning we get this material and in this material, as it stands here, which was delivered by the Council of Ministers, there are some facts that would not be good if we just concluded that today we do not state them at this session. It literally states here that the BiH presidency at a session on 17 March 2009 reached a decision on the accession of the convention in question and the signing of it by Mr Safet Halilović, the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. So I repeat, March 17th, 2009. After that, the BiH Council of Ministers reacted at its 107th session, held on 4 December 2009. The logical question here is what has been waiting nine months. What was the Minister waiting for, what was the BiH Council waiting for? I really don't want to talk about some things that are unverified here. I just want to be used at this point only by the facts that have been delivered to us as ambassadors to this moment. Namely, if this was the end of this part of the job on 17 March, it says here that on 10 July 2009, the act of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees was proposed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the signing of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol by Dr Safet Halilović, Human Rights Minister, to be carried out in the period from July 27th to 31st. On July 29th 2009, the UN Human Rights and Refugees Minister signed the UN Convention, and on October 22nd, this translated text of the UN Convention was approved by the court interpreter and delivered to the foreign ministry. I think it's very important that we all have these facts so that we can answer some questions today. I have to say, and we saw, here at the College, that most people think it's not good that we're even brought into this position. However, when it is as it is, this parliament should react without delay and in a three-step manner, we should do the following: today the first part of the work is done by the House of Representatives, after which the House of Peoples of BiH also ratifys the Convention as soon as possible, and eventually, to reach the BiH Presidency. I am one of those who also think that this Convention, in fact, will have full meaning and that the problems will probably only arise when we ratify it, because those who have had insight into the content of the Convention should know that it is very binding for the authorities in this country to act on the basis of the Convention. However, I would also like to say that this is very important to get this legal framework so that all persons with disabilities in BiH, or persons with disabilities, have the convention adopted to exercise their human rights on the basis of it. 3 All we can do today is that without any politics – I also have to notice enough – let us try to show some sensitivity and feeling for these people. Why are we being brought into this position? Probably one of the most important reasons is a kind of political hibernation by the Council of Ministers that has been going on for years. It is no wonder that we have problems with this one convention when we are, and we are primarily from the opposition, and so far we have said that individual ministries are implementing their annual work programme with only 10% or 15%, then it is a miracle that we no longer have such protests as we currently have. So this is the obvious consequence, the gentlest word is nerado. However, in order not to present today’s flat-rate, subjective evaluations, it is best to try to reach a certain conclusion, to determine the full truth. This full truth also needs representatives of people who represent the disabled, and we also need it in the Parliamentary Assembly, and the entire Bosnian-Herzegovina public. That is why I will propose two concrete conclusions and deliver to you, Mr. Chairman, for a statement. You know that I suggested it at an extended college session, so you yourself suggested I do it today and at a session. The conclusions are, therefore, other than this, that today we need to ratify the spottically of this convention, I suggest the following two conclusions: '1. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit information at the next session of the House of Representatives on the reasons for the delay in ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Opportune Protocol." I think it's quite all right, and not to spread this story today, that this Parliament, the public and these people find out really the fact that these are the real reasons why we've all been brought into this situation together. And another conclusion, since this isn't the only case: '2. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers of BiH to provide the House of Representatives with information within 15 days on the reasons for the delays in ratification and other conventions." I remind you, this isn't the only convention that's late for ratification. Here, I deliver these conclusions in writing to the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30980	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30981	Thank you. So I understood this debate, a discussion that Denis Bećirović last reported that she was more involved in making it even more complicated for the whole story. We are the first four debates when it comes to giving some consent. So far we've given hundreds of consents, never discussed these consents, now we're opening that story. So, you'd be in favor of further complicating this thing that would be unnecessary. So, this discussion of his... is further complicated by this complete story, it was unnecessary and for these reasons I believe that this was all absolutely excessive and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30982	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30983	Dear colleague Kadrić, I'm really surprised you got up to replicate, I don't think you had any valid reason to replicate. There were no complications here. I have made it very clear that today Parliament at this session should accept this convention and ratify it. So no more stalling, no more dilemmas, that thing's clear. And my second key message is (and I see most of it in the College, and I believe in this Parliament as well) that finally Parliament, the public and these people find out the real truth who really stalled this process and why we were brought into this position. So, the whole story has two messages: to ratify this convention immediately today and find out why it hasn't been done so far. There's no complications, there's no complications, in my opinion, nothing disputed, colleague Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30984	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30985	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I've come forward with the intention of asking my colleagues to stick to our agreement with the Expansive College. Simply today, not to discuss these things that are being opened here, but to carry out our task by adopting the agenda and giving consent to the ratification of this important convention and to create a legislative framework that this country deserves and this very high and numbering group expects it. And we should leave the debate on these issues for one of the next sessions, because there are obviously serious issues about the functioning of relations between the highest institutions of government, but also for me these days is also an open legitimate question how and under what conditions will the BiH Parliament continue to act on. And I think we're not wasting our time today, but getting ready together and raising our hands for this convention today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30986	Thank you. 5 You took the word out of my mouth, but here it is. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30987	Mr. Chairman, here I am trying to take anything away from two previous debaters and I have nothing to take away, neither Mr. Bećirović nor Mr. Raguž. I mean very correct and it was necessary to say this. But I want, on behalf of the SNSD Club, a few things to say when it comes to this convention. Somebody press the key right now who had any of our doubts that we didn't support this convention. So, let him press right now and answer it. And I don't know what this was all about. What was all this about, who was the organizer of this, what was this parliament disputed about? It should also be known that this parliament received the document, according to my notice, at 5:00 p.m. on Friday. When you take two days off, it means this morning. And why is it that everyone else, who has contributed to this situation, is excluded from this circus, rather than us as a parliament, is obliged to put up with this. We said this morning we wouldn't take it, and our message is that we'll never take it again. We won't vote under any pressure here, and in normal communication we will, and our strong message in the past few days and now that we support and that we will vote in favour of the Convention. But it's a shame that what Mr. Bećirović read to break on ours, eh, won't break on our backs. Never again. And no one in this House will call me a bandit, sit on my chair and call me a bandit. Let him prove to me why it's my fault, and I fully support what Mr. Bećirović said to determine. And if there's business opportunities, we're in order to determine today, precisely, by dates, we'll agree by midnight, when these people could sit around for so long and we're ready to determine who's to blame. There are things we are responsible for, to be honest, in this. I would like anyone to stand up and oppose what we as parliament are responsible for. Responsibility has its own name and last name, and we should look for it, but not under these circumstances. And never again under these circumstances, because there's no need for that, no need. We are, with us, regular communication is being held, speaking on behalf of the SNSD Club, two SNSD parliamentary issues are being held by the competent minister without an answer when this convention will come here, to this day, the chairman of Mr. Živković and colleague of Šain. We don't have these conventions, nor do we have an answer to an MP's question. And then today we get what we get to be under some kind of, I need someone to put pressure on me to do something that's human and my obligation, and why I haven't had a chance to do it for others. It takes a scenario like this to be created around Parliament and what it is today. We said from the SNSD this morning and we repeat that we will never accept this in this way. We won't. And someone tell us what we are, from communication, to what we have brought down this Parliament, what we have done to this Parliament. Isn't this a crash today? If someone doesn't think this is about destroying the integrity of this House, they're wrong. We tried everything to protect him. Let's say we vote the Convention because it turns out we're against it, so we're all against the Convention, but we need someone to threaten us here, so we're only up for it. We didn't. I haven't even heard a single voice in this House, either today or the past few days, that someone is against the Convention. I didn't hear. People were waiting for the Convention and for us from the SNSD, if there is a business opportunity to determine today, if we do not fully agree on one of the next, at the first of the next sessions to determine how this happened and how we came into this situation. And we're ready absolutely to participate. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30988	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30989	I don't know, fellow MPs, guests, I'm not sure I'm going to disrupt this idyll of yours, because I understand that you have agreed not to discuss this at the College. And here, I won't discuss much, I will, absolutely two discussions my discussion was made by Mr. Bećirović, because I think this play should be known who is responsible for this. So, if the Convention came here on Friday, the disabled have been here since Wednesday, there's obviously something wrong here, and I understand this as part of the political game and as part of political pressure. And I'm very interested in who's behind this game behind this play, who's behind this. Something's not right here, dates don't add up, something's wrong. And I beg you to endure on this one. Finally, I will vote in favour of the proposal that Mr. Bećirović proposed to declare on this proposal. Secondly, it is incomprehensible, it is unacceptable that the minister does not have human rights when this convention is adopted, because he needs to answer some questions, professional questions. I won the convention about an hour ago. I've been able to read it for as long as I've been able to, but I didn't understand whether by adopting this convention, let's say, the rights of the disabled will be the same throughout BiH. Because the current legal solutions have been passed so that they are almost ten times larger in the Federation than in the RS. Such a species, the adoption of such laws is an obstacle to returning to BiH territory. Obviously, there's some very large policy behind it. And this is where we need to talk about it very openly and very correctly. Although after discussions like this, most of the time, a new investigation is open to me, but open your investigations, I'll discuss it here. Third, what I'm curious about is how it's possible that we have about 7,000 people with disabilities in the Federation space between 100 and 150, today I heard the data, the other day I read in the newspaper 105,000, and today I heard the data of 150,000 people with disabilities. Is this a place to explore where there is a huge level of crime and corruption? I know old women in villages who have a disability, an old woman who's 80 years old. Well, she's disabled because she's 80 years old, and she's not because she's disabled, because she's who she is. I'm probably going into some professional issues and I'll probably end up with this, but I'm just asking a question and I hope it's time to take one of these sessions, and right here in this house, these issues debate. It is not possible for Croatia to have 17,000 people with disabilities, Serbia has 12,000 people with disabilities, RS 7,000, Federation 150,000. Is that someone's voting body? Because if that's how a voting body is provided, then what do we need elections for? I'm asking what I don't understand. If it's really in Federation territory of 150,000 people with disabilities, then we should consider introducing a tutor, because obviously there's something wrong with the numbers, something wrong with the numbers. I ask these questions, I hope the time will come, and I pray that the College discusses the opening of a thematic session and discuss these issues. Because 150,000 people with disabilities in the Federation's space, it can't stand the American economy, not this Bosnian economy. And the question, I doubt there are, is that there are really so many, and I'm going to support the Convention because it basically guarantees the fundamental rights of the right people, and for this we're going to see. I don't think there are any real cripples here. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30990	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30991	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I would like to say on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that, in the new situation today, we have responded very quickly and without delay and held a session of this committee at which this conclusion on giving a positive opinion on the need to give consent to the ratification of the Convention... unanimously at the Committee has been adopted. I am pleased to hear from my colleague Kalabić something that I believed in and at the very session of this committee, and also in this pause on the questions of some I have said that I believe that no one in this Parliament is contesting, nor is it against the content of the Convention, but that the problems of other nature of which here are fellow representatives and we will probably talk a lot more about at the next session when we receive information from the Council of Ministers, if we adopt this conclusion that is proposed. I would also like to say that I believe that ratification will be carried out, after giving consent in the House of Representatives, in the House of Peoples, and that the Presidency, in accordance with its constitutional jurisdiction, will sign and ratify the Convention, but that is not the solution to the problem for persons with disabilities. I am afraid it should be argued that the problems will only begin with the application and implementation of the rights and obligations arising from this Convention, from harmonisation of the rules in BiH and to everything that will follow as an obligation for all levels of government in BiH. It is also not good that we at the Committee on Foreign Affairs have already found several times, this time it has mostly been expressed, that certain international agreements, agreements, conventions, which BiH needs to ratify, are very often unjustly standing in the drawers of certain institutions or individuals without real explanations and without real arguments why it is so. There may be a chance that at the next session, in order to delay the ratification of this Convention, we will open a debate and all that. It is possible that the amendments and amendments to the Law on the procedure for the conclusion of international agreements, the agreements that we had in the procedure may improve the situation because these amendments and amendments have specified the exact deadlines, since the adoption of a decision by the Presidency on the accession to the agreement, as far as the deadlines are set for the institutions that follow. Unfortunately, we haven't adopted these changes and additions. There may be a future phase in which such amendments and additions may be adopted, which would be much more precise in determining the deadlines and obligations of the competent institutions in the process of concluding international agreements, contracts or conventions. I believe that today at the House of Representatives, at least we will do our part of the work, and soon probably also in the House of Peoples and the Presidency, and we will see from now on. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30992	Thank you. No more reports. Mr. Arapčić, you told everyone what you said at the Expansive College, I think that's enough of your address. Let us now, which is why we're all here, end this item of the agenda to give that agreement, and after that, we all give the press statements the way we think we should do it. I thank you for your understanding. Please prepare to vote. We are voting on granting consent to ratification of the UN Convention. You can vote now! "For" 29 votes, without "against" votes and "abstained". We unanimously adopted and agreed to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol. Mr. Bećirović, is one conclusion at a time that we both vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30993	One at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-07-0.u30994	One at a time. Thank you. Do you all have the conclusions, not to read them, in front of you? Is there any need for me to read them? Please, we are voting on the first conclusion of the SDP MPs' club. You can vote now! "For" 28 votes, "against" was not, "abstained", a single vote, a sufficient entity majority and I find that we have adopted this conclusion. We're going to vote on the second conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 23 votes, "against" one vote, "abstained" five votes, but not enough entity majority from RS. Please let us vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24 votes, "against" one vote, "abstained" four. Insufficient votes "against". So this conclusion has been adopted. 9 I hereby conclude the 65th session of the House. I thank the guests and all those who helped end this today. The seat is closed at 14.50.
