ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30688	There's a letter there. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is the law that is in the second reading and the Constitutional Commission has supported most of the votes this amendment and the law in the second reading, and this law has one problem within it which is why I will not be able to support these solutions. So, this law definitely clears itself, I would use that term, the Board of Geodesy and Property Legal Affairs from the administration system in BiH. I read the reasoning of this law where it is claimed that this administration has actually been abolished before but called the Geodetic Institute, etc., that it was a matter of error. And it's possible that it's really so, that something that didn't exist has been lifted, a Geodetic Institute that didn't exist. However, I believe that the Board of Geodetic and Property Law has continued to operate and that 78 is still functioning as BiH's institution today. I believe that we must find places in the system of administrative organisations or independent administrative organisations and for the management of geodetic and property-legal affairs and for me is an unacceptable text of law which will clearly and definitely reflect the existence of this institution. She's working day and day. I don't want to talk about what this administration has, but today, when we talk about resolving the issue of state property in BiH, to end one such institution, it would be very, very, very dangerous. I think the survival of this institution, the continuation of its functioning, can help us resolve the issue of state property in BiH more easily. That's it, thank you. That's why I'm voting against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30689	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30690	In fact, this is the addition of what counterpart Džaferović said. Namely, here I will read the explanation, part of the explanation: 'In the process of listing the authority of the administration in Article 29 of the basic text of the law, there was a misidentification of the authority of the administration, so that instead of the Board of Geodesy and Property Affairs in BiH, the Office for Geodesy Affairs was listed as an entity which had neither de facto nor ilura before nor after the adoption of the BiH Constitution under this name.' This implies the obligation to align the name, i.e. to indicate the exact name of the Authority of the Administration of Geodesy and Property Legal Affairs, whose status is in accordance with the assumed obligations fully and definitely necessary to resolve. Therefore, there is an obligation to specify correctly, not to abolish the institution. I think it's just a mistake. There were some deaf phones between the ministry and MPs who later added Article 29a) and I think this thing has to be fixed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30691	The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30692	So, Mrs. Džaferović and Mr. Izetbegović have practically reopened a dilemma that has been here all the time, but since in the procedure of these two laws, I really do not have the usual but I call on the ministry representatives to tell us loudly and loudly whether this is true or not. Is it shut down, isn't it shut down, is she alive, isn't she alive? That we don't have any more dilemmas. I really don't have any other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30693	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30694	I thank you, Chairman. The existing Article 29 of the current Act on Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration, this institution, the Board of Geodesy and Property Legal Affairs, has been abolished. In Article 29, it precisely states that under the name of the Department of Geodetic Affairs, this administration has been abolished under the name of the Department of Geodetic and Property-Legal Affairs. What is it with this amendment? What am I trying to do? Let's do what we can do, at least save the paperwork, the archives. And this amendment therefore transfers the archive and documentation of the Board to the BiH Archives. Also, I agree with this, some representative of the Justice Department, someone say whether the administration has been suspended or not. According to Article 29, under the name of the Office for Geodetic and Property Law Affairs, this administration has been abolished. For those reasons, let's do what we can do. So let's save the archive and documentation and transfer it to the BiH Archives and in such a way as to do what can be done. Of course, it would be better if both this archive and the other institutions which are subject to the applicable law in Article 29 were abolished, I have proposed amendments for all of them to be seduced, all those institutions to return, but the amendment to the Constitutional Commission has not been accepted. The amendment was accepted to save the administration's documentation and archives, to return to the BiH Archives and in such a way as to do what can be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30695	Minister Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30696	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I was truly convinced that this is a very understandable thing and that it really doesn't offend anyone. So if you've been gone since 2002, practically since the end, if it's not on the budget, so I don't know what this one is now, I have to say it like that, why now? If anyone wants this administration to exist, make a bill. Here's the simplest. Well, there's a clear explanation. I think it's very, very clear and that we don't need to pollemize about this. Of course, MPs have the right to vote as they think they should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30697	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. We have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30698	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really sorry that I've ever been able to conduct a controversy with my esteemed colleague, Čolak, because I really appreciate and respect my colleague, Čolak, and I have extraordinary co-operation as chairman of the Constitutional Commission and a complete committee with the Justice Department, therefore. But this is one question obviously where we disagree and things are like this. In the text of the Act amending, that is, Article 29 originally reads, sometimes when this law was passed, and here is the date of 13 February 2003, it is written in 'Article 29. According to the provisions of this law, the authorities of the administration established prior to the adoption of the Constitution of BiH, (two points) and are now listed, the Institute for Health Protection, Employment, Institute for International, Scientific and Technical Cooperation, Institute for the Protection of Cultural, Historical and 80 Natural Heritage. And now watch out, the Bureau of Geodetic Affairs, it says, the Department of Geodetic Affairs, then the Meteorological Institute and the Bureau of Geology, stop working and their jobs go to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in accordance with Articles 8 and 15 of this Law. So, I underline the words: The Bureau of Geodetic Affairs to stop working and to move jobs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the time, the Bureau of Geodetic Affairs did not exist in BiH, but writes the Geodetic Affairs Office. And in the text of the bill to be delivered to us here, Article 12 states: 'Article 29 of the position (1) the words of the Bureau of Geology and the Bureau of Geodetic Affairs are deleted.' We are suggested to be now from this article where I read the Department of Geodetic Affairs and the Bureau of Geology to be deleted. And so, now those words would be erased, and now it's like it wouldn't stop working, and then it says... "Beyond Article 29, the text of the bill that we have is added to it is read: 'A new article 29a is added to the entry into force of this law, so the one we are discussing today, which is yet to come, if we adopt it and adopt it to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and is published in the Official Messenger of BiH, therefore, by way of effect of this law, ceases with the work of the Board of Geodetic and Property and Legal Affairs of BiH.' So it ends with the work of the Board of Geodetic and Property Legal Affairs of BiH, and a decision on the status of equipment, inventory and other things, resources and work, archives and documentation will be made by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Ministry of Civil Affairs within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law." I know that this administration exists in life, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30699	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30700	I don't know how it's funded, but from what I've read, it's quite clear that the text of the bill admits that it exists because it predicts its termination by way of the law. And I'm just calling us here as people right now, and this may have been a mistake in 2003, and I can't, I can't get into it, and I won't argue with you, but I just want to say that the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs has not been abolished, and I'm calling us here when we talk about state property -- we can't solve this issue without that institution. And that's why I think she should stay. And that's why this regulation is dangerous if it's passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30701	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 9. Ad.9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-80/09, of 14. Nine. 2009 (second reading) 81 At the 61st session of the House, held on 30. 9, this law was passed in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission submitted the Report 2. The 11th was negative. At the 63rd session of the House, held on 4. 11, the law was returned to the Commission with the conclusion that, in this case alone, the Commission would allow amendments relating to the new aspects or concerning the harmonisation of two or more of the proposals under discussion. The report was submitted by the Commission to 16. 11, with two amendments adopted that become an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30703	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, unlike this previous law, this law has been agreed on by the Constitutional Commission together in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice. They were adopted as you said two amendments based on the authority that Dom gave to this commission. Therefore, this integrated proposal by the Constitutional Commission has been drawn up and I propose to the House to support this law. I will vote for this law as supported by this commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30704	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 10. Ad.10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposer: MP Bajazit Jašarević, Law No: 01-02-4-83/09, of 8. Ten. 2009 (second reading) At the 63rd session of the House, held on 4. 11, this law was passed in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report 17. 11, three amendments that are part of this law were adopted. In the plenary phase, MP Denis Bećirović defends one amendment. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading, it's about the amendments. There isn't. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30706	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected media and guests representatives, I have tabled a concrete amendment, and the reason for this amendment to the Amendment Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH is a series of letters from BiH businessmen. In particular, in this amendment, I propose that the proposal for a law, so in Article 7(1), to amend and read: 'If the court procedure gives him a security measure to prohibit the making of calls, activities or duties'. The proposed amendment is subject to a number of acts which require that participation in a limited procedure or tenders be refused. I suggest that we adopt this amendment today and that I do not further explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30707	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30708	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, today is not from the leadership of the Commission of Presidents and Vice-Presidents, and I would like to explain that this committee, in order to reach an agreement on the adoption of this law, has strongly referred to the Council of Ministers which has entrusted the Public Procurement Agency with delivering an opinion to the Parliamentary Assembly on this bill and the Commission has also taken account of the amendments made to the Commission and held the position of the Public Procurement Agency. The position of the Public Procurement Agency is that such an amendment by Mr Bećirović cannot be accepted. There have been attempts to come to an agreement, unfortunately, the promoter was not at the Commission's session, so there is no such thing as this. The Agency’s view was that this amendment did not refer to the prohibition of legal persons as bidders, but as those who received such prohibitions and this text of this amendment could not be accepted on the Commission. So that was the only reason. The Commission remains that it is still important to reach an agreement on this maximum volume of amendments to this law in order to remove the lowest throats in the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30709	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to 11th point: 83 Ad.11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in BiH – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No 01,02-02-3-94/09, of 13. Ten. In 2009, with the Commission Report on Transport and Communications (second reading) At the 63rd session of the House, held on 4. 11, this law was passed in the first reading. The report was submitted by the competent Commission for Transport and Communications 17. 11. Given that the report is negative, today we are only discussing our commission's report. If we adopt the report, the law falls. If not, he's back to this commission to deliver a new report. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I will just briefly look back at the Commission's opinion. In fact, most of the members of the Commission voted against, except me, who was the only one for the adoption of this law. The Commission voted negatively primarily because of this opinion given by the Ministry of Communications and Transport where it is said that the excessive reason for the introduction of a light during the ride has stemmed from the aspect of greater traffic security, as most EU countries have prescribed in their laws. Nevertheless, they delivered one table, which lists 19 European countries. Of these 19, three countries in this table already have restrictions for the winter period, i.e. the light is allowed to be turned off during the summer period, i.e. the summer reckoning of time. Two countries in this table Austria and Croatia have abolished that provision, more specifically Austria since 1 January 2008, and Croatia has limited the obligation to light lights for the period of winter time calculation. Nine countries in this table are located near a polar circle where short lights are required to be lit due to reduced visibility in those countries throughout the day. In addition, we also have the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, which found that the matter governed by this is not regulated by legally binding EU acts. Therefore, this bill of law or the obligation to light lights is not in line in all European countries. In addition, I have to say that in Austria, a detailed analysis of the justification for the use of light in the daily drive has been made and it has been demonstrated that the use of light in the daily drive has had an effect that the increase in the safety of traffic is zero and that the emissions of harmful gases, i.e. carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, have increased significantly. Therefore, I think it is up to us to return to the Commission for consideration because I see no valid reason to reject this bill from this Opinion of the Ministry of Communications and Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30712	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30713	I won't talk about content, he's very simple, here we heard from colleagues of Kuzmanović some thinking, but I'll talk about the way it works. So here's what happened. We had this law in the first reading, unanimously supported, a positive report by this commission, etc., because we received the opinion of the Resort Ministry with a delay. We're practically thinking, I don't have it today, so what's probably gone to this committee, I don't have this opinion today, so I'm talking about the next one. It is very important that the ministries respond in good time to our demands when it comes to opinion. Because these opinions are very relevant to many of us, especially when it comes to professional sages. And we now have a situation that the post-festum, practically when the procedure has far gone, when a positive relationship is created to this law, we get opinions and now we're in a big dilemma. So I really appeal to the ministries when our Secretariat of Parliament immediately asks for an opinion and when it comes to legislators to respond in good time before the first reading, before the amendment phase, and that the other Members and not just the resolution committees get them, those opinions, because they will help us decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30714	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30715	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, here I was proposing this law, just saying that I had nothing to add to Mr Kuzmanović's discussion, which is, in fact, whose explanation or similar explanation I gave when I proposed this law last time. What remains to me as a proposing is a suggestion to the House not to accept this negative report and to return the law to the Commission in order to analyse, together with the Ministry's representative, all the positive and negative aspects of the application of this law again, the possible application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30716	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go. It's a replica, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30717	Yes, yes, it is a replica of both Mr Kuzmanović and Momčilo Novaković. 85 I think we're going to pass this law in about five to ten years when things get better on the roads. I think it's early for this law. So maybe in Austria, it doesn't really fix the state of things, but on these curved roads of ours, with drivers overdrive the speeds, with muddy roads where visibility is reduced, etc. I think it's just too early to pass a law like this. So we, the SDA will support this Commission position this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30718	Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30719	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to say a few sentences on behalf of the Commission that discussed this issue, and before that, a small replica to the honourable MP and the chairman of Belkić. The ministry was also at first review when we first read, they made their arguments in oral form, and then we asked them to present it in writing. So I'm not their lawyer, but for the sake of truth, so they were present from the very beginning, for the first time orally, for the second time and in writing they expressed it. I can tell you that the Commission wasn't as absolutely as it turns out here against this law, but there were really more arguments not to accept it. That may have been the reason why the first reading was the way it was, and now we have considered it more seriously and in more detail. I think the essential reason why we said - this should not be supported - is that we have received information from people who deal with these issues from the Ministry of Communications and Transport that the obligations will be in the EU since 2011 that all vehicles that are produced automatically when the inflammations also have marking lights. And another key reason. What? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Okay. We haven't asked all the producers, so I say again according to the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the people who are 38 years in this area, I guess they should know that. The other key reason and what we've chosen for this attitude is the fact that in the sunset when the most dangerous driving is, if you leave without the possibility, without this obligation to turn the lights on, that it'll be half on and half off. Next, when you have, let's say, half a year to use it and half not to use it, it's divorceal and then it's like it's not used at all. And another reason, we will soon have more comprehensive changes and additions to the Transport Safety Act, so here is the Commission's statement that here and to that period, if there are additional arguments to be included. 86 I must say that the arguments that are referred to as e.g. 0.2 liters per litre I don't know how many miles of consumption, look, it's negligible a little bit compared to some other things where a lot more percent, i.e., of gas decilitres, like. that in BiH you have as many as you want in each place completely unreal traffic lights. It would be much more effective to break the traffic light lobby, so I'm deliberately stressing here: break the traffic light lobby. Those who make traffic lights, which install them, better said, have a very good effect on local authorities where there is another, which is a source, an additional source of corruption, where traffic lights are being set up where there is absolutely no reason to exist at these intersections. In BiH, you can count on the fingers of one hand how many circular flows you have, and everywhere in Europe, even in the largest cities without telling smaller county roads, there are circular flows. That's not what we're doing here, I'm stressing again, only because of the strong influence of the traffic light lobby. Imagine how much gas is spent here and how much environmental pollution is in exactly the most populated places.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30721	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30722	Well, I'm saying again that I can't accept the Ministry of Communications and Transport's opinion as a relevant argument against this law. So again, I claim that the people in Austria have done a complete and detailed analysis. If this is an analysis in which it says that this law, i.e. due to the obligation to light lights during the day, has significantly reduced the number of direct collisions and a slight increase in the number of pedestrian casualties, so I cannot accept it as logical thinking and as a logical conclusion why this is a good law, i.e. a good obligation. So people do a detailed analysis and say that the effect of increasing traffic safety is zero, so zero, and a huge emissions of harmful gases, and we say, now we're pretending to be the smartest. I cannot accept such a proposal, or such an argument, and so I ask, if they already have some analysis that based on the obligation to light lights during the day increased traffic safety, let them deliver it, but this cannot be accepted as relevant data. Also, what Mr Okolić said, I really haven't read anywhere, and here I am following some of these traffic safety laws, and I haven't read anywhere that all new vehicles in the EU will have to have day-to-day lights installed since 2011. That's the first I've heard of it. I really saw it here. But if everything is as it says, here in the following text, it is said, 'which would automatically turn on the engine and consume about two-thirds of the less energy than the classic car lights currently in use'. I think this is again about lower emissions of harmful gases, not about using lights as means to increase traffic safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30723	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30724	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a replica to Mr. Dokić, but it's not her goal of some classic replica... but of simply explaining some things. This is about amending the Traffic Safety Act and it should not be treated superficially at all, nor should any policy lead to this debate, i.e. it should collect certain arguments to convince me as an MP and citizen that it is right if we adopt amendments and supplement this law, i.e. it is not right if we do not adopt them. So, I would like to see the EU's position that as of that year and that year, as Mr Dokić said, he will impose the law as far as possible, as ordered by eco-lights etc. that all vehicles produced from that year must have automatically lit lights as soon as the engine starts. It would be something that would be my definition of whether to vote today to amend and supplement this law or not. However, we have attitudes as well as the promoter did not give sufficient arguments, he probably thought that these arguments that he made were sufficient for the adoption of these amendments and additions, but he could have been through the Research Centre or through some traffic institutes to see the reason, and the reasons exist. Why has Croatia, which has had the lights on throughout the year, solved this in the summer season or in the season from-to-the-time zone? Why isn't Serbia here? Why Greece doesn't have any etc.? Or why is there another country? Then we would simply come to some of the best knowledge and pass the law in amendments and additions as it is proposed or simply would not bring it in at all, because this is serious matter and maybe this is the best thing that the Commission really, if possible, re-examines all of this, back up with the arguments. And the legislator, if he wants to defend attitudes for changes and additions, also supports certain other facts, because it really is serious matter and we shouldn't be wrong about this case at all. I know someone's gonna say we won't make a mistake if we don't change anything. However, we may want to change. Maybe it really needs to change that, and maybe there's really no need for the lights to go up in the summer season, but that's why they have to be adequate: not political evidence, but purely statistical evidence and evidence from the profession. I would go in that direction and if it is possible to complete the debate on this law; if not, then we will see how it will continue to experience it, and I hear that in the procedure and the amendment and addition of this law has been proposed by the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30725	My fellow MPs, the law is in another reading, and we are discussing what has no amendments. We discussed this debate in the first reading, whether it was necessary or not... of a law like this. Let's cut this short and move on. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30726	Well, I'll be very brief. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Novaković told us that he wants to improve the ecological situation that we have accepted as a fact. But on the other hand, here at the explanation, at Austria I would ask only to take elements that... or the introduction of lights... did not prove effective. They probably did an analysis on the highways. Since we don't have highways, we have roads... that don't guarantee you'll come quietly to the house no matter whether you have the lights on or if you don't have the lights on. And if you don't have the lights on, then there's even more guarantee that you don't come home. The other day I was coming out of the tunnel, the bus didn't turn on the light, more fog. Therefore, we have a basis to punish him. If we say we need to turn off the lights and he doesn't do it and the fog is, he'll say by law I don't have to turn on the lights so you... Therefore, it is my opinion that we get nothing by introducing once already that the lights are mandatory and that all the recently sold vehicles have automatic lighting lights. By the way, I told Mr. Novaković whether he would punish me if I had a light on and there in law it says that from six in the morning to six in the afternoon the lights should be turned off. Therefore, I think it would be better if we had this debate when we had total changes in the Transport Act based on all the analyses and this proposal to go into this proposal with all the elements, and that here today we only plead on the Commission's Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30727	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30728	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief. As a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I voted against this law because I was simply offered the Ministry's position. One thing is clear: there are no relevant analyses as to whether the use of lights has contributed to a reduction in the number of accidents. It is difficult to expect that we will have one such analysis in the future, but what I would suggest here is that we do not return to this commission again, to adopt a Commission report that is negative, and that what the President of the Commission has highlighted simply takes all this into account in the comprehensive changes to the laws that are announced and which follow, and to announce to the Ministry that we will also ask for these analyses of the benefits of using lights throughout the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30729	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 89 Moving to item 12 of the agenda: Add.12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-103/09, of 6. 11. 2009 (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered this law to regular procedure 6. 11. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on Fundamentals and Principles 16. 11. The Commission also supports the constitutional basis and the principles of law. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. We've already got reports. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, please. Do you have a need, Minister? _________(?) Well, it's your call.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30732	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here I will try only in shorter lines to say what happened from the moment the law was returned to the Council of Ministers. I want to remind you that it's 12. The 10th meeting of the Monitoring Team for the application of criminal legislation in BiH and that out of the 17 members of this team were present 15, and that they were rightly absent by Professor Dr Miodrag Simović, he is also co-chairing this team, and Mrs Sena Uzunović of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The meeting discussed amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH which were proposed, so the amendments proposed by SNSD's Club, the proposal of representatives of Mr Jovičić and Mr Novaković. The decision on acceptance, partial acceptance or non-acceptance was taken by consensus of all, therefore, present. I will then say very briefly that a total of 10 amendments have been accepted, of which four have been fully accepted, and six amendments have been accepted in part. The first amendment has been accepted, therefore it concerns Article 1 and the proposal has been accepted. Second amendment: the proposal is not accepted. I, if you allow, can briefly explain which amendments have been accepted, or which are not, or if you don't think you should, I don't have to, okay, if there are any specific questions at the end. 90 Here, that would be the shortest. I would ask you really because this is the first reading today and since the law is back in the regular procedure, of course there is a possibility of further repairing, I think it would really be necessary for this law to be adopted today in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30733	Thank you, Minister. I have now heard the information from Mr selo Bešlagić that our honourable MP Jozo Križanović has passed away in Zagreb and we are taking a break for half an hour. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, we used this break to contact our embassy in Zagreb and Ambassador Mr. Raspudić, who informed us that our colleague had passed away an hour ago. It's a serious illness and trying to get rid of it operationally. We have also made contact with the family so that the memorial session, the time and place of the funeral will be subsequently decided to provide you with that information in due time. We couldn't just have the three of us agree on how to continue this session, so we'll pay our respects first minute of silence, and then ask the club presidents to come to Hall 2II as soon as possible to discuss the continuation of this session. Please, one minute of silence, honor our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30736	My fellow Members and fellow Members, the Extended College met and decided to propose to Parliament the following - The Commemorative session would be held on Friday at 10:30 in this room; - At the Organizational Committee for Preparation of the Council would be members of the College, plus the SDP Vice-President, honourable MP Denis Bećirović, plus the secretary of the PSBiH Secretariat, Mr Aljoša; - Our session would continue on Monday at 10.00 hours. So we would end the debate at this agenda point that we are at today and we have to formally put this proposal to a vote because of the Rules of Procedure. Please prepare for the vote to continue the session at 10.00 p.m. Monday. Prepare to vote. 91 you can vote, now! I find 26 votes "yes", one vote "abstained" and we adopt this proposal. All MPs will be informed on time of any changes to what we have agreed or some new circumstances. The seat was interrupted at 11.40 a.m. 92 Before I officially open the extension of the 64th session and move on to the discussion of the Criminal Law where we stopped when we interrupted the session, following the notice we have from our services in Parliament and the communication held by some members of the Kolegijum, I would like to inform you that there have been civilian disabled persons on the I floor since 3 December and some of our colleagues and I, as chairman, considered it necessary and necessary to create an extended college before the start of the debate on Criminal Law and to consider this situation and to ask all club presidents to go to Hall 2/II to attend the Expanded College. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30741	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, like to repeat what is the most important feature of amending and supplementing the Criminal Law, which is that it is related to the liberalisation of the visa regime and that it is very important that the BiH Parliament adopts this law. And immediately I, as a College, suggest: our session is the 16th, and due to the shift of debate and decision-making in the first reading of this law, we've already lost about ten days, we have the next session of the 16th, and I'm afraid by 16, given the deadlines, we won't make it all together because the Constitutional Commission is 14, to conclude that we can end it on the Constitutional Commission and 14th. There's plenty of time for anyone who wants to make amendments, so that when the session is planned, we'll have a law in the second reading. Because this way we won't have those 10 days that are necessary with those two days or 48 hours or 24 hours as long as it takes for these amendments. That's one thing. The other thing I'm saying is that I'm going to vote for this law. However, I will also say that the text of the bill is 4. Nine. In 2009, he was much closer to what the European Commission asked BiH to do than the text of this proposal of 6. 11. In 2009. There are several things in which this text is new to the earlier text and I do not know if the European Commission will be pleased with it. Maybe they will. We will today support this text of the law. It is possible even today that even in the second reading we will vote immediately on this text of the law, if that is what you are for. But I'm also going to say some things that I think may be problematic, so let it be known that we've noticed them, that we haven't seen them, have we? The first question concerns the Institute of Extensive Disposal of Property Benefit obtained by criminal acts. In the earlier text, the institute was defined in a way that the court may, in the course of the criminal proceedings, confiscate the property benefit for which there are justifiable reasons to believe it was obtained by a criminal act. The suspect, i.e. the accused owner or user, may prove in a special court procedure that the seized property has been obtained legally. Therefore, 94 here is a burden, the possibility of confiscation of property benefit from criminal proceedings and the property which is not subject to criminal proceedings, and the burden of proof has been transferred to the owner, i.e. the owner, i.e. the suspect, or the defendant. Many countries in the world have approached the application of this institute in this way, but with us for not adopting this text of the law we today have a new institute... actually, this same institute arranged in a longer way. And the currently in force text on the extended confiscation of the property benefit obtained by a criminal offence states that when a criminal offence is conducted in the area of corruption, that is, these chapters, whether so, the court may also subtract the property benefit for which the prosecutor provides sufficient evidence that it is reasonably believed that such property benefit has been obtained by the execution of these crimes, and the perpetrator did not provide evidence that the benefit has been obtained legally. So here is the practical burden of proving what we currently have in the existing legal system. I don't know how consistent this will be with the EU's efforts to fight corruption and those recommendations from the GRECO countries, but here, if this is enough, of course, I'll vote for this law anyway, but let it be known that we saw this thing and that it hasn't remained undetected, that tomorrow someone doesn't tell us you haven't met the conditions, there's a problem, you've adopted differently. Here we see this, if this is enough, here we vote, no problem, let the country finally meet that condition when it comes to visa liberalisation. Another very important issue concerns the crime of denial, demeaning, minimized genocide, holocausts, and crimes against humanity. In the earlier text, there was a particularly criminal act prescribed by Article 104 of the amendment and supplementation, which said this: that a new member of 231a was added behind Article 231.b) which reads 'Renocation, reduction or approval of the crime of holocausts, genocide and crimes against humanity', saying: 'Whoever publicly denies, reduces or approves the crime of a holocaust, genocide or crimes against humanity, established by a domestic or international court, will be punished by a prison of six months to five years'. And he says, "The punishment of attitude (1) will also punish anyone who distributes or otherwise makes available public information or written material to be denied, reduces or approves the crime of a holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity established by a domestic or international court." So this crime was prescribed in the previous text as a special crime, he is more like a special crime in the new text of the law. In the new text of the law, there's something that's not clear to me as a man who's been applying the Criminal Law for many years. But here, so I want to say that this thing has been noticed. First, in this article there 104, as was the case before, whether, in this original text, there is no more of this crime as a special crime, but there is something in Article 56 that is roughly like this: Article 56 provides for a criminal offence to cause national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience as a basic crime. And then it is said (1): 'Who publicly causes or dissipates national, racial or religious hatred, discord or impatience between constituent nations and others, as well as others living or staying in BiH, will be punished by three months to three years' imprisonment. And then he says, in the position of '(2) What act of attitude (1) of this member makes it public by denying, reducing or approving the crime of a holocaust, genocide or crimes against humanity established by a domestic or international court, will be punished by a prison of six months to five years." 95 So, the earlier independent crime from the original tex of amendments and addition of the Criminal Law is now being placed as a variant or modus or a type of crime of causing national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience. And from this, as I interpret this, it is possible to do public denial, reduction or approval of the crime of holocaust, genocide or crimes against humanity established by a domestic and international court, not to be a criminal offence, which is possible in those situations... when such an act is not at the same time a cause of national, racial and religious hatred, discord or impatience, or vice versatile, only when genocide, holocaust and crime against humanity is denied, diminished or minimized with the aim of dissipating national, racial or religious hatred, dissension, only then there is this criminal act. This will be something that will be very complicated to apply in practice, that people who deal with this problem know well. But here, gentlemen, you're saying that all the experts have agreed to this, I don't mind the professors of criminal law agreeing and the judges do, but we have to notice that this is at least a vague thing and that this may in practice cause certain problems tomorrow. But here, let it be known that we noticed it and that it stands here and I'm going to stop at these two examples, and I'm not going to talk about other cases where the text is different from the original text offered, because the law is on the white Schengen list. So that's one thing. And another thing, no matter how much this solution is worse than the originally proposed solutions, in the law of four. Nine. In 2009, they are still better than the existing ones, because now we don't really have any solution. So much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30742	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30743	Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course I will not dare enter this expert aspect when it comes to discussion. I use the opening statement of Minister Čolak and, of course, our colleague Džaferović, who has experience in the work in the judiciary and has no reason for a man with attention not to listen to people. So, I am the most informed to remind you, in some way, that is to point to the importance of the whole thing that we as the College of both homes and understood and in 6.10, we have launched from here from Parliament a request, an initiative to repeat the circle after the law has been passed in the BiH Parliament. And I have to say that the Department of Justice, why don't you say that, in this situation, it's very promiscuous, has done these consultations, because we've asked for further consultations. From the documents I've seen, unfortunately I've found that at least that's how it stands, that representatives of the constitutional committees of both homes, whether it was a misunderstanding or not, I don't know what the reason was, were not involved in this one of these meetings. And perhaps it is a shame that the opportunity for Mr. Džaferović to open the discussion and this matter has been missed. I have no illusion that this will go smoothly, regardless of the additional consultations and so, because you always have institutions, different opinions, etc., you know what I'm talking about. And that's why I'd be too pleased and overjoyed, no matter what the weather is, and to point out in some way, that we save him today in our first reading. Of course, I would be most fortunate to do both readings today, but I appeal and ask that we keep it in our first reading and leave that possibility through the 96 amendment phase, in some way, in... additional clarifications of these very things and similar possibly of which Mr. Džaferović was talking about. And here's to taking this opportunity to express my satisfaction in some way and congratulations to our neighbours Serbia-Montenegro and Macedonia for getting a visa-free regime in 19th, in hopes that we too will join very quickly. And it's up to us, practically, when it comes to this home, as far as I know, we only have this amendment to Criminal Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30744	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30745	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, although I do not have the ambition to deal with the legal profession, I have the desire and the will to say something about the law, the way he went through our first reading and why he was shot down in the House of Peoples in that first reading and how we got this new bill here at all. Some of which we heard from the minister, and I was in the process of seeing who makes up a team that monitors and assesses the application of the Criminal Law, and I found out that the people of that team are actually the ones who wrote all the changes and complemented the previous law that didn't get consent in the House of Peoples. In addition to representatives of the justice ministry, representatives of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko, there is a professor of the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo, and representatives of the US, EUPM and OSCE also attended the meeting on 12 October. It would be important for the legislator to also say or explain how the representatives of foreign, especially diplomatic missions, are present at such meetings and what their role in these meetings is to keep records of who said, proposed or did, and I would like to know who on that team he represents. I think that the organisation of meetings through a team that only went to discuss the amendments of the SNSD, and not to seek the consent of the ministries is, in my opinion, the principle that will cause new disagreements... I would like to have the consent of the ministries of justice of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, of course, who agree that in this form the Criminal Law can also be acceptable to us here parliamentarians. I wish it would have happened the same way if it hadn't happened so far. It seems to me that the ministerial conference is held on 22 or 23 this month and there is a possibility that this agreement can be obtained at the ministerial conference. I also don't feel comfortable with the team's secretary commenting, especially in the media, (to remind avaz of the 6. 11. In 2009, who and what amendments he made and on which sides these amendments were professionally or unprofessionally written. The amendments to the MPs have the right to write, no matter what the professions are. No Niko has the right to comment on the amendments to any MPs who invested them here, especially the secretary of a team. Obviously, we will also have to amend the State Service Act and tighten criteria and sanctions against irresponsible officials, and in particular introduce the principle of mandate for Ministry secretaries, because these political interferences and 97 biases under cover of profession cannot be tolerated anymore. However, it is a good thing that at least these amendments have been discussed and that some of these amendments have been accepted, some in full and some in part. I think it's a good thing that the article is fixed and modified, but I think we're going to have to open up a public debate on such important changes, I mean also Article 56 and Article 145. The SNSD club will support this law in its first reading, demand that a public debate be opened and see how we can get this criminal law when we need it. It is our position, and I think we have enough time to respect everything that is required of us, but we also respect our procedures and the BiH Constitution. No more reports. We're closing the debate. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the working days – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-102/09 of 5. 11. 2009 (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers passed the law in regular procedure 5. 11. In 2009. The Constitutional Commission on Fundamentals and Principles delivered 16. 11. In 2009. The Commission also supports the constitutional basis and principles. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30747	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that BiH needs BiH's holiday law, but the law delivered to us by the Council of Ministers is clearly not the law that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs. Namely, some of the main characteristics of this proposed bill are, under number one, that this law does not respect the BiH state. How else do you explain the fact that in the holidays of BiH there is not one day dedicated in any way to the BiH state? Its other characteristic is that it is contradictory, which I will speak of when I come to the reasoning of this law. And third, that's pretty negative to our common anti-fascist values and foundations. So you can't find in this law, like in other countries, any date dedicated to anti-fascist uprising, and here I wonder who one July 27th would mind - A Day of Uprising against the Fascism of all the peoples in BiH. 98 Since the law is in the first reading, I will not talk about other details that could be spoken of in any way, given that there have been a lot of statements about this law in the previous days and weeks. However, the fact is that no one in the comments on this law has so far looked back on Article 7 of this Law. In addition to all the shortcomings, I think this member is particularly harmful to BiH. Why? Article 7 states that'six months after the entry into force of this law entities and Brcko District are obliged to comply their holiday laws with this law', e, now goes this part, 'with that in those laws they can, according to their needs and specificities, establish other dates'. Now, this is where the 'needs and specificities' stand, I don't think it should have come to parliamentary procedure. Logically, the question arises why, instead of need and specificity, it is not said: in accordance with constitutional provisions on the full equality of all peoples and citizens. It would be logical for such a provision to be found in Article 7. I fear that the broad interpretation of this article 7, which many are prone to BiH, would continue to practice that the peoples, all three peoples in BiH, will be unequal when it comes to public holidays. Unfortunately, that's the practice we're having right now. It's enough to look at the current state of affairs to accept that conclusion. In the light of this law, the regulation of the issue of holidays, especially those of the state character, is one of the characteristics of the statehood and sovereignty of each state. In itself, it would be said that there is nothing controversial about this finding. However, when this finding is to find its place in the text of the law, then you see that there is not a single day in this law that calls, it reminds that it marks the day of statehood or the day of BiH's independence. Furthermore, the same reason for the adoption of this law states that there is no current holiday law at the level of the BiH state. With regard to this finding, I do not know whether the commissioners at the Council of Ministers consulted the BiH Constitution, specifically Annex II, Transitional Provisions, point 2. Continuity of legal regulations. I'm not going to read them, but it would be good to have in mind what constitutional provisions say about this issue. As far as this law is concerned, I would first of all like to point out that this Parliament and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should not invent hot water. First of all, look at what other countries have done. As I prepare to discuss this law, I have done a thorough comparative analysis of the state of affairs in other countries. Macedonia, for example, I say, celebrates August 2nd as the Day of the First Macedonian Republic, September 8th as Independence Day, October 23rd as the Day of Macedonia's revolutionary struggle. Slovenia celebrates April 27th as the Resistance Day to the occupier, June 25th as Statehood Day, December 26th as Independence Day, and June 25th as Statehood Day. Croatia marks June 25th as Statehood Day, October 8th as Independence Day. The Republic of Serbia marks February 15th as Statehood Day. Even within one entity in BiH there is a Day of the Republic, I mean the Law on the holidays of the RS. One Belgium, for example, marks July 21st as Statehood Day, and this was agreed by both Flandri and Valoni. The Czech Republic marks Statehood Day of 28 September, Independence Day of 28 October. Estonia has its Independence Day on February 24th, even the Day of Independence on August 20th. France has the famous Bastille Day, Canada has its Day of Canada on July 1st, Lithuania has the Day of Re-establishment of the State of Lithuania on February 16th, Statehood Day 6th. One little Luxembourg has 11 national holidays. Hungary has its Statehood Day, August 20th, etc., not to mention. One logical question is raised for all of us who represent the BiH state in this House, without some major debates, replicas etc. What is the problem and what is the key problem that this country can't have its day of statehood, its day of independence, or, as we can see, at least 99 days dedicated to the state of BiH. Since I attended a session of the Constitutional Commission, as a proponent of one of the laws, so I had the opportunity to hear that this law had passed in the Council of Ministers and that only two ministers were against this law, I am asking as an MP a question and I would like to hear that information from the Council of Ministers: which two ministers were against this law, or who was in favour. We know well that in the Council of Ministers, we have two ministers from the SDA, two from the Party for BiH, one from HDZ 1990, two from HDZ, two from the SNSD, plus the prime minister. I would indeed, if possible, see, unfortunately only Mr. Nović is currently in the O.R., if we can be told exactly how this went in the Council of Ministers and who it was all for, if only two were against and I cited the structure of ministers in the Council of Ministers. So let me get this straight. We at the SDP Club believe that this law should be rejected in the first reading today, and this law should be returned to the BiH Council of Ministers in order to prepare a new law that should start by respecting three basic facts. The first fact that BiH is a state, the second fact that this law must express the equality of all its peoples and citizens, and the third fact that this law should respect the fact that this country rests on anti-fascist foundations and values, because it does not rest on those values, I personally don't think it would have any future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30748	Correction of the incorrect allegations, chairman of Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30749	That's a lot of false allegations. But here, let me focus on one. Namely, I don't know if we're reading the same draft law on the holidays of BiH and the working days we got from the Council of Ministers of 4. 11. In 2009, which states in article 2 below (4) that the holidays in BiH are: May 9th as the Day of Victory over Fascism and Europe Day, as well as the Day of Support for Victims of Violence are unworkable days, and only on the day of the holiday. You said that none has a member, nor a day that will mark our fight against fascism and anti-fascist fluids of all the peoples in BiH. It is simply not true, as it is not true that only the Bošnjak fought for ZAVNOBiH and that you are taking on these liquids of our revolution and calling, as your boss called on a TV show that he fought against the Chetniks, thus calling everyone from the Serb people who were in the RS along with me. That just can't go away. It's your narcissistic policy to mark all of us and try to put us in towers where you're anti-fascists, and we fascists, where we're all members of one nation, Chetniks. If that's how you set these laws, and if you think there's a law in this country, then you have to change the way you and the president of your party talk. Simply, BiH needs law. If he needs the law, then he can be with one member. If we can make a deal about a member, let's make a deal about one member. Don't let us talk, we need the law, and then you put the maximum goals here. If it's the law, let's bring it in, I'm willing to have one member. Here, let it be just a member: the holiday of May 9th. If we don't need the law, then say we don't want the law in BiH and don't keep us all here. This is, I think, the fifth time we've discussed this law in BiH. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30750	Dear colleague Živković, I will not allow myself the luxury of drifting away from the content and measure of this law. And that's why I called, just to tell you the next one. The 9th of May you mentioned in your discussion is the Day of Victory over Fascism in Europe and there is nothing controversial about it. However, my colleague Živković, as I cited in the comparative analysis of the situation, in other countries, a large number and neighbouring countries, but also the state of Europe marks the Day of Antifascist Uprising in their country. In that sense, I mentioned that on July 27th, in World War II, Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak raised an uprising against fascism. And if it hadn't been for those people in World War II, probably our country wouldn't have been on the side of the world's anti-fascist coalition. In this respect, there is no reason for us to, apart from marking the common European Day of Victory over Fascism, we mark something that is a bright tradition and Bosnian Herzegovina people, and here, by the way, to say that first rebel rifle on July 27th broke in the Drava, and not to count on the national basis who it was and what it was. I didn't speak of any people individually here, but of all the Bosnian Herzegovian peoples. And not to be too long in this replica, I don't think there's anything maximum in asking that BiH has its own statehood day. You will also admit that it doesn't make sense if one entity has a day to mark that entity's day, then why doesn't the state have its own state day, unless we've really turned everything upside down, so we think that the state really shouldn't have a single day of statehood, and that's what entities should have. If that's a finding, then we all know very well, no matter what political party we belong to, where and in which direction it leads. So to be clear to the end, it would be good to really understand that BiH is also our common state and that it deserves to have its own day of statehood, as well as that it deserves to have its own anthem and other features that all other countries have. In that sense, we can also turn this topic around in a way that we have bile debates here, talk about everything and everything, but it would be good if we could at least talk about the scale of this law and talk about those things that happen in another country, and not just in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30751	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30752	The Bošnjak don't think, God Bog, that all Srbin are Chetniks. I think the majority of Srbin here are as anti-chetism as we are and against what the Chetniks have been doing in any conflict and war in the last 70 years here in BiH. The other thing is, we have no intention of taking anything for ourselves. It's not like it's a Bosniak holiday. And I think that there was probably more Srbin than Bošnjak in Pucar Đura. We have no intention of taking some date for ourselves. But that this country deserves to be shown by holiday to love it, to respect it, to have its 101 continuity. That's no maximalistic goal. And DRAFT Day is one compromise in that sense, you know. We must ultimately show that we love this country where we were all born, yes. If you have a suggestion to make it another day that will symbolize, that some excitement in us will inspire everyone, suggest. Here, we thought of it, and we thought it was a compromise, like that compromise and that Golden Lily... that we put on the flag. It's an angelic sign of a baptized cross. Why is he left to the Bošnjak, after all? ... At one point it's not the Bošnjak, we intend to extend our hand and find some date that we'll all agree on. We appreciated it could be the day of the evening.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30753	Thank you. I named the man who said that. I didn't say the Bosniak people said that. So you didn't need to replicate it to me, but it's not a problem. Dear Ambassador Slavko Slavuj Jovčić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30754	Dear chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, see how you today advocate BiH's continuity continues from ZAVNOBiH. And for those of you who don't know, and many of you here don't know, to remind you, you know this first piece of information, but for one fact, you don't know the other, so Vojislav Kecmanović Đedo chaired the ZAVNOBiH. And after decades, communists gave him a little street up on the Kosovo hill to thank him for his contribution. By coming to power and changing such a country that was part of Yugoslavia, a man who had nothing to do with this new war, nor was he a Chetnik, so he was a partisan, chaired the ZAVNOBiH, you found a reason here in the capital, and my and yours, to change that street. Not you personally, but the structures of the city of Sarajevo, and you name that street of Dede Šišić, who tortured my campers in front of my eyes, and yours is Golden Lily. What continuity are you talking about and the tradition of ZAVNOBiH when you were disturbed by Đedo Kecmanović who has nothing to do with Chetniks? Under the circumstances, he was a Srbin. So the poor man got an alley and you took advantage of it after new revolutionary changes in the new environment to take it off too, just because he was a Srbin and gave him the street of Dede Šišić, who tortured my fellows. What more do you want to force us to celebrate that day and continue? Don't convince us, it won't happen. And yes, since the speech is about holidays, for replicas, Mr. Izetbegović, there is always a story here of Bošnjak, Srbin, lilies, this, what, you took it and that's logical. A considerable lily takes over, no one's against it. As soon as you took it yourself, we were against it. That's logic. If we took it, you'd be against it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, no, please. So let's be honest. When we're honest, it's all clear. If you hadn't taken that gold lily, that as a lily symbol, we would have taken maybe the Srbin today, because no one will take it, we 102 would have taken it. But since you took it, we won't. If we took it, you wouldn't. Let's be honest that everything happened. So, to break this tradition and don't, Mr. Bećirović, as a famous historian, return the street to a small man who was partizant, chaired ZAVNOBiH and wanted to be continuity, and you took that off just because he was a Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30756	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30757	Well, I don't know, I must really say, those who suspected that MP Slavko Jovičić was really vispered and that he's getting well prepared for the sessions now can be convinced, as you would say, in a bottle or in a srid. Slavko Jovičić in srid, as it is said down there when he goes on that one. So after this replica, I think it would be wise for all of us to stop all the stories because he said the point. And what Mr Bećirović said and Mr Izetbegović, anti-fascist manifestations, traditions, history cannot change no matter what this parliament has done. It's part of history and we can do it, but we're against ending it. What you're doing is falsifying history. That's what this is about. And you were best denied by Mr. Jovičić that this forgery is transparent, that this forgery is pathetic. That means it would be your turn to say what the meeting of the Anti-Fashist Council of People's Liberation of BiH wanted, what it wanted. And here's what I'm going to suggest, until there's my discussion, a virtual situation in which the SDA delegation enters that session, let's say it's not with the SDP, we used to be SDS, say, I don't know some others, and he says here we come and we have our own concept of BiH. And they go in there and, well, I'll let you know, so he can have a good time. To be welcomed by those who are, Mr Izetbegović mentioned a topic in some context that is against Chetism, so we must add who is against the leadership of the division, so who is, whether those from SDP, which is the heritage of ZAVNOBiH's tradition, whether they chased and imprisoned young Muslims. Now, who's there for anti-fascism, who's against it, that should detach. Since you and the SDP came together with the SDA that you've now crossed history, that you've pointed it in one direction, you've ironed it out and it's as such a tradition. If the traditions of ZAVNOBiH were not, if you think they meant as a key foundation of brotherhood and unity only in BiH's space, then you are a forger. They were referring to the brotherhood and unity of the people of SFRY. And they were thinking of something. No matter who's to blame, we broke that brotherhood and unity in the '90s, like I'm not saying what now. That's how they drummed him and he's gone. It was the foundation of these people, and that was on their lips -- living in one state of Yugoslavia with BiH as a federal unit, with the brotherhood and unity of all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia. Don't exceed their will. It was the way it was, history went the way it went and that's the problem. If you think you're going to convince us that they wanted an independent state of BiH, imagine yourself showing up in front of them and saying what you are, so take some of their papers, and take some Focan regulations, so take... regulations, and see what's written there and what's mentioned there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30758	Time! 103
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30759	and how they relate. That's the point. If you think, and I end up, that we question the anti-fascist character of November 25th, you're absolutely wrong. We're not. He has an anti-fascist character. But we're against his counterfeiting and against, because we don't want to fall into the counterfeiting of the will of the people who were then created by ZEVNOBiH and then Yugoslavia. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30760	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30761	I agree that Đedo Kecmanović should have a street in Sarajevo, but there should also be a street on the Palace, both in Trebinj, and in Banja Luka, in Drvar and in Mrkonjic City. Here's Slavko to say if there's a Đedo Kecmanović street, name of the street in the Palace. And there should be in every place.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30762	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30763	Thank you, Chairman. My replica will be very short, more in the context of Mr. Jovičić's discussion. Maybe we don't have a street anymore, or it's been moved, when it comes to a specific name, but we've got a SQUA market here. However, I wanted to draw more attention, chair, to perhaps remind the debaters that this is the first reading, or we are talking about the principles of the law. I ask you to reduce every discussion that's not focused on principles or interruptions, etc., because we've already gone far, so far past that we need a new OBLIG.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30764	Thank you. Let's move on, honourable MP Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30765	I'll be very brief. The SDP does not intend to take any action at all, it is a factual reflection of the wishes and will of the citizens of BiH and the people of BiH, it is far more advanced than the Dayton Agreement that is the imitation of ZAVNOBiH. And on the other hand, never in this part of BiH has any assembly except the RS Assembly decided to annul ZAVNOBiH's decisions. According to 104, I ask you not to talk about that decision and respecting ZAVNOBiH, at least, Mr. Jovičić, because you know good history, because you've abolished ZAVNOBiH, you've overturned history. And on the other hand, I absolutely agree with you – changing the streets of those who created the BiH state is not, I would say, a virtue nor is it in BiH's interest. I absolutely agree with you here, and here I accept this criticism of yours, but not to myself, but I accept the criticism because I think it's too much when one such man presided over the ZEVNOBiH, whom we respect, is gone. But here, we've got the ZOVNOBiH Square, and I'm telling you that after this debate, the initiative will be to return to that man. But I'm asking you this part, when we talk about these things, we get into a date debate and I'm just going to tell you that there's not a single national holiday here that we're going to celebrate. We have international holidays that we will celebrate, we have religious holidays that we will celebrate, and there is no state law and therefore I cannot accept that this is 'The holiday law in BiH', because if I don't have it, it's the same thing as if I were now denying that I am the son of Salih and Mother Tahire, Father Salih and Mother Tahire, and thus we prove here that we came from Mars and that we are now just creating some things and we don't have any holidays. It's illogical, and that's why I can't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30766	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30767	So we're not against holidays, as said in a series of replicas, but we don't agree on dates. So it's not the one who's against a holiday at the same time, well, now that those who are against it are going to break the law and leave the state without "The holiday law," it's now their will that we can't stop. About the return of that one street, I'm afraid it's Sisif's job, because Mr. Jovičić has a full list and he should be sitting in local assemblies day and night, cantonal, and I don't know which one, to return all those names. And that means that the traditions of ZANOBiH have been trampled, and now that some ironing, that's what Mrs. Azra has just said. You know, this is Vojislav, we've wiped him out in the rush of the collapse of the anti-fascism tradition, and the SQUA Square, so we can, we'll get it through but with a green background, so we'll say, that can somehow, it doesn't have any other points. That's exactly what playing and falsifying history is about. She can be taken as she was, you have the right to tear it out of context, but I think it looks pathetic, because we didn't affect it. I wasn't running away from being responsible for that '90s. In these areas, such fluids were shattered by ZAVNOBiH, and everyone was involved and everyone was racing. Well, then someone remembered that he'd gone too far. Well, it's late. Well, someone remembered that he went too far and did it, that he didn't do it smartly, and now he needs some kind of quick falsification over his knee, something that goes one way impossible, I don't think it's possible. I don't think it's correct not to ask for such things compromise. We have a compromise here, we have the consent of two entities, we have the Council of Ministers' position, we have around these dates around which it has. And I don't know why to break down that compromise and put maximum demands on the other side and get into these discussions that probably never end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30768	Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, a second replica. Here you go. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30769	Well, here's the thing. Dear counterpart Kadriću, when those streets were divided at the time of Socialist BiH, there were not so many streets in the Palace that all of them, of the folk heroes and of what was important, were not shared by the streets. Today when we have a street, when the real city fell, the university, we don't need that name today. What do we need that name on the Palace when you're here in the capital, and mine and yours, you've wiped it out? And that man doesn't fall at all. They didn't call him Đedo because he was old, but because he was respected by both the Srbin and then the Musliman and the Hrvat, respected by the enemy, respected by Tito, the Alliance of Communists, and gave him the most important role in the presidency. We are all equal here, but I am not in the same role as the chairman, Mr. Živković, Mr. Lozančić and Mr. Belkić, we are not. They have a bigger function, they can make a lot more decisions than I do, so when it comes to these merits. The second thing, dear colleague Bešlagić, is not my intention to blame this parliament for someone being guilty from here. You didn't even know it was changed. You didn't even know, don't be mad, it was that street. But I'll tell you that on the Kosovo hill she was. Kid, some juice sucks, but well, it doesn't matter. So this country that you want, the continuity to continue, that should have thanked him, gave him the smallest street. And today, I don't want to insult anyone, and when I come to Parliament's session, I'm crossing the streets of the Young Muslims, so I'm going through the Green Berets, so I'm going through everyone else. And once I spoke here at Parliament, let's change these main streets of Duke Steph, Duke of Travelers, as some Serbian heroes from some earlier uprisings, Serbian wars, that somehow I could accept, come on, it bothered you everything that's Serbian, it's fine. But here's the man you're up for from ZAVNOBiH? Dear Professor, you know how much I respect you, and all of you here, square and street name are different. There are countless people who are absolutely irrelevant, of course, well, now the square is bigger, and the street is small, I know. When we want to thank someone like that, I wish we had numbers here like in New York. Street 64, 124, 5th Avenue, 6th, 19th, not these names that will keep us apart. So it's common knowledge, of course, that November 25th will never get support from us while we're here to be any holiday, especially the state. And so, we don't have to get excited about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30770	Three minutes. Here's another half.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30771	Two and 32, don't interrupt me, you took six seconds from me, but it doesn't matter. So, I'm going back to March 1st, and so is this holiday. Guys, that day was the biggest accident. And once upon a time I said about many media, as I say, let's choose one day to celebrate the day of the accident. But it would be every one of us, as we discuss. So don't put this in a procedure that won't get support, and let's just let's just get what support can get, which nobody's arguing about, that we vote this out if we really want to have a compromise, a consensus and all that. Thank you very much. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30772	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30773	First, correcting the wrong quote. We can't celebrate accidents. We can mark the sad days, right? You see, some debaters have been very successful in drawing attention from the essence of problems and debates, and these are the principles of the proposal for a law on national holidays. We don't discuss streets or individual cases; I especially think if we're going to discuss it, then let's translate it into the field of general debate here and ask ourselves if there are any streets, for example, in cities that are now in RS which were earlier. I'll tell you that I know most of the cities where there are no more street names that bear a name without being Serbian, I think. But I don't want to discuss it, I don't want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30774	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30775	I know you don't hide it, even more so, colleague Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30776	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30777	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30778	You're not hiding, no, no, I'm just saying maybe nobody...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30779	Just a minute, please. Let's all talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30780	Let's all hear from each other and respect each other. Let's not start a horse debate about something that's not on the agenda. And here, on the way, Chairman, to mention that since this proposal of the BiH holiday law does not satisfy the elemental principle, which is that there is at least one day from the history of this country as well as other countries, which is, I am not saying, I think, or that would be days and so on, but any day from the history of the country, as is the case with all the countries that have holiday from their history, we will not support it even in the first reading. Thank you. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30781	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go. And the discussion also, right? You can put it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30782	No, I won't. This is just a discussion, and the replica was preventive, because the replica has been misused, and I've been waiting a long time, and then I'm starting to bend, too, is it, in my own way. So it's just a discussion and there won't be any replicas. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this law as it is proposed could be adopted as the State Holiday Act of every country, almost every country in Europe. Now, you could, like this: New Year's Eve, May 1st or most countries, is that right, in Europe, in the world, however you want, I mean, like this when you offer it, then May 9th, June 26th - Support Day for Victims of Violence, etc. So there's nothing here that says anything about the element of being or the element of the identity of BiH, the state of BiH, and that's what's wrong with this law. And we know that there are many dates in the history of this country that are the element of beings that are specific to this country. And then I'm worried as a man why none of those dates are in this law, and that's a serious problem. That is why he cannot pass even in the first reading and is therefore dangerous to adopt at the level of principle. It is not possible to fix easily with amendments, because it is simply offered a law that contains nothing in itself when it comes to BiH, when it comes to these national holidays. That this law is dangerous to adopt, as it is, speaking and discussing which we have so far had the opportunity to hear. If we were to pass this law, we would not get 'The Law of the Holidays of BiH', but we would get the law against the holidays of BiH, we would get the law against the First of March as the Independence Day, we would get the law against November 25th - Statehood and the Days of ZAVNOBiH, because these are the national holidays of this country and anyone who thinks that by bringing down this law, the state will actually be left without a holiday and that it will not have holidays, it is wrong, it will not. The state has holidays, it has holiday laws on both March 1st and November 25th - Independence Day and State Day. And these dates are also recognised in Dayton, so it's confirmed once again in Dayton by the principle of continuity of regulations. And it's no problem whether this country has those laws or not, the problem is whether these laws are respected throughout the territory of the state or not. And it's not about the existence or the absence of the law, it's about their respect or disrespect. So that's one entirely separate question. To adopt this law means to be abolished at the same time, because when BiH, the Dayton BiH post-Dayton issue is regulated by law after Dejton, then it ceases, of course, that what happened to Dejton, as the continuity of the rules explained, automatically means the abolition of the law on 25 November as Statehood Day and on March 1st as the Independence Day. We are far beyond compromise today, unfortunately, than we were 10 years ago. I remember the debate in 2000 or 2001 in the House of Peoples here, this Parliament, when, say, November 25th was not disputed as a state holiday. So he was then, even agreeing to the college then about November 25th as a state holiday. The problem was his meaning, whether it's Statehood Day, whether it's ZALNOBiH Day or Antifascism Day. For example, colleagues from the RS agreed then that it would be a state holiday, so on November 25th but 108 it would be called November 25th - Antifascism Day. Of course, we couldn't agree to that because this date is so important to confirm BiH's continuity that simply around this date, no matter what we say, no matter how we talk, there is simply no contract here. It's just like that. And of course, that was not accepted at the time, there was a full alert in BiH and those who, conditionally said, accepted it from the Bosniak side at the time, experienced a heavy criticism within BiH. We're way beyond the holiday law today. And when it comes to Independence Day, I remember when my colleagues were making variations about what it was, what it could be during that period when BiH was self-sustaining from the SFRY. Today, there's no such thing. All together, I think, Minister Nović is a serious minister and I am pointing out and saying it many times now, and I will say it this time, and it is surprising to me, in the face of these facts, that he has decided to propose such a law to Parliament, a law that he is fully aware that it is simply not possible to build it up and he cannot pass this in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We have so far had a number of laws from that ministry and from this minister, we have worked on them together and upgraded them and it seems to me that for the first time on a very sensitive issue, this is a question of which there is no vote, this is a question of identity, we have come into a position to have such a thing in the BiH Parliament. I wish these situations weren't repeated and, of course, I am free to say on behalf of the SDA Club that we will vote against this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30783	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. Next is the replica and debate, the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30784	It's not a replica, either. They say the best form of protection and fighting and treatment is prevention. Well, here's a precautionary one, because some of us who came long ago patiently waited by respecting the Rules of Procedure and the rights of respected repatriators. I will unite, so I will not individually..., well that there has been a debate about this law in the House of Representatives and why it is good that he has passed the debate on the Commission, regardless of all the controversy over this law. I think it is high time that the Bosnian Herzegovic public, to whom we all are often called, is really directly and through Parliament sees insight through all the positions that are being opened through this debate. And what does this debate open? Our relationship with the past and the present and the future is opening, we see. What does he show? It shows constantly confronted and conflicted positions, diametrically different positions that are best illustrated through the fact that we hear here, we hear in public, in the shows that we were in – what you want, we will not and vice versa. And it is always so, it is always so and shows that there are neither institutional nor political capacity in this country to reach a compromise on the most important issues. Here, this is the position of Martin Raguž, who I am publicly presenting here, the position of HDZ 1990, and we simply want to make a way out of it, and we cannot reconcile with this state and development of relations in BiH. 109 In this law, if you take it and read it well, there is nothing controversial. The question of whether there's enough, and we should be honest so say it here. I don't think there's enough either, but I don't think there's anything wrong with this law, and I want to make a difference. And I believe that dates such as the Day of Victory over Fascism and the Day of Europe, the Day of Support for All Victims of Violence are huge dates and it is good that they have found a place and it should be welcomed, not criticised. Well, I can't take some of my private dates in the fight for antifascism and pretend that they become a general value, if the 9th of May is accepted throughout Europe as a general value. And that's not enough for us, so it'd be something else. So wait a minute, guys, let's get some serious debates here. Let's put some of that ideological fog together and see if there's any more of those institutions around here where people are wondering about these dates. Let's see what's the value of ZAVNOBiH, that it's neither Croatian nor Bosniak or Serbian, and that... we see today in real life where we are. Well, then, and those who are called upon to show that they adhere to these principles of ZAVNOBiH, so we accept them, we accept everything, absolutely, Bianca. Another thing, religious holidays are being arranged. This country is multi-confessional and is arranged that every citizen, a believer, can celebrate his religious holiday on every inch of BiH. Isn't that a major shift: in consultation with the Interreligious Council, their values have been accepted. I think it's a huge shift, a huge shift. I think it's finally time that when it's a state holiday that BiH's flags are reported, not that we have a fact and we say it's a holiday, there's no third member of the Presidency that's here under the Constitution -- there's not one year left. I don't think it's good for the country to keep that practice going. And in order not to remain critical, we suggest that they be added as BiH's national holidays: the day of its international recognition, it is 6. 4. In 1992, and to register as Statehood Day on 22 May 1992 when BiH was admitted to the largest multi-latellar organisation, the most significant organisation in the world, are the UN. Where are you going with two bigger dates? Who can challenge them? Are they related to an ideological position, political, partial or other, aren't they enough to show the character that this country has the strength to pass one important law and determine its statehood, international position and its internal relations and show that it can reach a compromise? So watch out, I mean, where are we going now, we turned this down and where are we again? And constantly so, not on this matter, on all matters. Then there's no visa regime, no NATO action plan, no compromise, no solution, and they're all like winners. Who lost? We all lost, people, sick. We're nowhere, we're not on the map. We must blush, shame, etc. Here, I have concrete suggestions. I think this law has passed, it needs to be passed through the amendment phase so that we in Parliament can show that we can, here we can not at the Council of Ministers, we can compromise here. Here, I suggested two dates. If there are any more dates for us to sit down to work and go out with a white smoke and say, "In this country, we can celebrate the state holiday with dignity, so that at least we don't fight about it."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30785	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Branko Dokić. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30786	Mr. Chairman, I don't mind having my colleague Remzi Kadrić speak before I put together a replica and what I meant to say, or you'll let me put it together right now, if he agrees. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I won't speak for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Remzija, allow me. I responded for the same reasons as Martin because there were indeed many very unnecessary and unprincipled replicas that were not at all in line with the agenda point but were talking about some other things. Unfortunately, we are here in Parliament as well as in society are generally looking at negative things and what is not good, and then it completely drags us away and we go to the other side. Let's try to look at what's positive, take some steps of affirmation, not constantly negative. My colleague Martin has helped me in many ways, and so my discussion really won't be 13 minutes, less than 10 minutes, above all in this fact that here I also welcome and appreciate the minister's determination to come up with a proposal in which, here I repeat what my colleague Martin said, there's nothing controversial about me. And it's just an open question of whether it's enough. So, it's nothing to argue about. I have to say that I didn't understand some things and I asked the minister, I didn't understand these dates about religious holidays, but when he told me that it was an inter-religious council agreement and that they suggested it, then, for the same reasons he didn't mind, here I have no objection to it, but if I were setting it up, I'd probably put things differently. I think here's my message, and the message of the party I belong to, that it's high time BiH had a "State Holiday Law" and that this law gives us the opportunity to get through the amendment action to get there. So we are absolutely against those who here advocate the fact that this and the Priors should be rejected and we should go back to some debates and suggestions, and I don't know if they're asking themselves what it is they're going to get again. I can also understand the remarks in the sense that here in this bill there are no elements directly related to the state of BiH, but I am quite sure, if we are honest, if we are open and if we respect each other, or, even more precisely, if we are on the line of ZAVNOBiH – that we can come to such an agreement. The story now and the DRAFTBiH and some other things, which are not essentially here, should be a story when we talk about amendments, if we come to that – and I hope we have enough reason to come to it, even if we reject it – should be then. But here, and I'm gonna make that precedent, and I'm gonna discuss these things in advance. What I don't agree with is a proposal for two new dates, not because I don't respect what my colleague Martin said, but because I think there are two other dates that are more important to be in this law. You know that State Day is the birthday of this country, and the birthday of this country whose representatives we are is MPs and advocates for these benches is November 21st, gentlemen. So, if we want the 'Statehood Day' of this BiH that we live in today, which we are 111 officials, then it's November 21st, the day that the Dayton Peace Agreement, which was signed in the spirit of ZAVNOBiH, was reached by consensus of all three constituent nations, with the support and guarantee of the international community and neighbouring states. I'm not gonna talk right now. If we come to a discussion about whether or not it's necessary, then I'm going to say that I'm experiencing what's not being accepted that day. Well, I do, but here are only two sentences: the contest of the Dayton Peace Agreement and all that's been made is a stumbling block for 14 years in this country. And as long as we don't start with that, some other dates will be challenged. I personally, and also the party I belong to, don't mind having one of our own in national holidays, as Denis says, a domestic date marking BiH's anti-fascist struggle. Maybe it's immodest if I point out: my two uncles, the name one I'm wearing and I'm proud of it, they left bones on the Sutjesca, one uncle, and I don't count on it anymore. Therefore, there is no one’s right to question me in any way what has been achieved during that period. So, that will be the day we can talk about. Is it July 27th, is it another, for BiH it was once July 27th, I went to those choirs as long as they celebrated, now they don't celebrate, unfortunately they don't celebrate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30789	Wait a minute. You weren't either... when someone threw you... slowly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30790	The second date, here it doesn't have to be July 27th, could be what counterpart Džaferović was saying, here he has already escaped from this debate, could be the day of ZLAVNOBiH, but not that day as Statehood Day, but ZAVNOBiH Day. I repeat again, the State of this country's State Day that we enjoy is November 21st. The fact is, we have to be honest, that without the OBLIG, there would be no country in which we now live, but that, gentlemen, is the same as the example of descendants and ancestors. I don't celebrate, without my father there wouldn't be me, or without me there wouldn't be my children, but my children don't celebrate my birthday, they celebrate their birthday, they celebrate my grandfather's birthday, but it's not their birthday, it's my grandfather's birthday. But (?) microphone not enabled Wait a minute, please, and when he dies, there's Grandpa's birthday.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30792	Hold on, hold on, hold on. 112 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30793	Please, if you're going to provoke, I, you see, I didn't mention any name, not one street, not one city, and that discussion as you're already replicating it will take us who knows where, I wouldn't want to talk about it. So again, I repeat: without ZAVNOBiH there would be none of this, but ignoring November 21st you really leave a very large reserve in one part of BiH and even fear – what is the ultimate goal? That is why the insistence on November 25th as the Statehood Day has been ignoring November 21st since this BiH, which has no prefix of the republic. So, this BiH is a kind of cynicism, gentlemen, that's how I see it. And here, I'm going to finish this discussion on this issue, and I'm not going to replicate to anyone and tell them whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30794	Anyway, we'd be celebrating our birthday but we can't agree on a date, but fine. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30795	I, although reporting behind my colleague Dokić, is not a replica of my colleague Dokić. Namely, today's debate or part of the debate began where the street in the capital of ZAVNOBiH President Vojislav Kecmanović or the chairman. As far as I'm concerned, all councilors and MPs of the SDP are concerned, they can guarantee it, where they chose and were most certainly not deleted, nor the name of any anti-fascist. And if that's the problem today, here I will immediately suggest a conclusion with this law, perhaps the law does not pass, but to pass the conclusion 'that we will conclude that we will finance that in front of this Parliamentary Assembly in the next three months we will lay the bust of Vojislav Kecmanović'. Well, that could be a concrete suggestion. Furthermore, when it comes to OBLIG itself as Statehood Day, many say that it can't be Statehood Day. Well, here, let's just go to the neighborhood for a little bit. Serbia chose 15 February 1835 and 1804 for its Statehood Day. Then Serbia had nothing to do with Serbia's borders today. And this BiH is within the same limits as that in ZAVNOBiH, with the same equal peoples, etc. dan Dejton, it also needs to be respected in this country but it is most appropriate to make it a "day of peace" in this country, because it is objective peace. We could celebrate as Statehood Day on November 21st, here I have the Constitution of BiH and that the Constitution of BiH states in Article I that BiH occurs on November 21st 1995, but in the Constitution of BiH, here it is, so I can show, literally, that 'BiH continues its legal existence'. So it's about continuity and continuation, not creation. However, to be honest, this is not the first debate on this subject, I do not find it surprising what I heard from some MPs, first of all from the SNSD, the only surprise in today's discussion, I have not heard it yet, under the quote I will say the pearl is this statement by Mr Bakir Izetbegović. He literally said that I WOULD be like some kind of compromise. If we go with the 113th thesis that ZALNOBIH is a compromise, it implies that Bošnjak have some dates, their Srbin, their third, and as we will agree on ZAVNOBiH. I don't think so. I think I'd be the foundation and the foundation and no compromise. I don't have a problem with whether anyone votes or not. I WONDER, we all know that here in the O.R., some want to admit some won't, no one can deny it, that's our common value. I WOULD have a long-term value and there are no problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30796	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30797	I'll finish this sentence. Kalabić was right when he said ZAVNOBiH councilors did not want an independent BiH. ZAVNOBiH councilors wanted what the councilors wanted in Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro, they hit BiH's statehood in the then-Aussie Yugoslavia. When, first of all, the other republics broke up the AU Yugoslavia, there was nothing left for BiH but to turn statehood into independence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30798	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30799	I thank you, Chairman. Only around this one would you rather not make any confusion, not to make a bust perhaps Vojislav Kecmanović or Vojislav Šešelj, when it comes to these two names, but I agree with this not to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30800	And those Nobels, too, Dragini.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30801	So, I only came forward because of this one sentence in the reasoning it stands in, says: "From the entry into force of the BiH Constitution at the level of the BiH state there is no, or so far no holiday law has been passed." So, this sentence is against the constitution, so it does not comply with the Constitution, because the Constitution of BiH states that all the laws and regulations and rules in force in BiH's territory at the time of the Constitution's entry into force will remain in force to the extent that they are not contrary to the Constitution until otherwise determined by the competent authority of BiH and, of course, with the most important member, the BiH Constitution, which states that 'the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name is Bosnia and Herzegovina, continues its legal existence under international law as a state'. So, this sentence in the explanation... can't stand like this and for these reasons I reported that, I repeat, the fight for the BiH state continues. For these reasons, this law is not acceptable to me and to the BiH Party. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30802	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30803	Well, I don't know what it is that's not said. Mr. Kadrić didn't just say how he meant to do it if he called for the principles of ZAVNOBiH that talk about equality, about brotherhood and unity, about compromise, about bargaining, there's no high representative there, there's no imposition, there's something wrong with this system. I'll remind you of three things. So, I don't know how, but this law has the consent of both entities and why you're going over that fact. And that will be confirmed by the minister, so he has the consent of both entities, he has the consent of the Council of Ministers, he has the consent of a significant part of the MPs, so what he doesn't have is not relevant. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, so please, I'll call the minister to say - the consent of two entities - I've seen it. So he has the consent of two entities. Just before, I think, Mr. Džaferović was telling me why Mr. Nović sent the proposal, so that's not his proposal, it's a proposal from the Council of Ministers that received the support of two Entitiates and the Council of Ministers. The fact that he's a resolute minister, it's not his private law. So, this broad support for this law, this broad support, and to bring down... there's no logic here. Since there's been this support, eh now, we're not going to keep it, we're not thinking of a lecture for anyone who decides otherwise. How is it possible if BiH could function on the principles of ZAVNOBiH, then what was Dejton needed? As far as I know, he's shutting each other down. If she could've been on the D.O.C., there wouldn't be a Dejton. I don't know, she can't do it with each other. That is the problem of this time and this society that we are now absolutely mixing frogs and grandmothers in our everyday life and trying to give a lecture to someone else. I just told you to try to get back into that reality and let's tell Đura Pucar the star to sign up there that Christmas isn't going to work. I think Đuro would have caught up with what he'd have arrived sooner, or Hakija Pozderac, or Ivan Ribar, if we were gone for Bajram. Now you see what it would look like, what it has to do with this today. The socialist social order and antifascism fluids don't combine into one. Maybe this Nightingale's grandfather made a mistake too. Antifascism has nothing to do with it if someone messed up after the war. With that arrangement, this society broke up in the '90s. The feather was SDA, SDS and the others. We broke up with it, we stepped on it like a rattle. And now, as something we remembered, we needed something from it, and we got it all figured out how we did it. To reconcile the declaration of the ZALNOBiH and the Islamic Declaration? I'd like to see who reconciles it and you bring it to them and you say, "Here, we'd like you to discuss this a little bit, they armed all of them with machine guns, or Radovan Karadžić's '90s declaration, and then he goes in there after that." I'd like to see these artists do it a little bit and give it to us. It is not correct, and on the other hand it is impossible, and I don't know why we are dealing with this: 115 justification that BiH can go to ZAVNOBiH, and Yugoslavia can't go to AVNOJ. A lot of people in this House said that Yugoslavia couldn't, that AVNOJ couldn't, that we allegedly broke the principles that apply, which are absolutely the same. The principles of brotherhood and unity are the same for ZAVNOBIH and AVNOJ. And that's why we're not hoping to defend it today because we brought it down, gentlemen, toppled it. The same principles apply to Austria's Yugoslavia as they were... and it has been said there is no Yugoslavia because we are not, it says, equal, no Yugoslavia because there is no more brotherhood and unity. And what remains in BiH of these principles? I'd love to, and as far as I'm concerned, if some force could bring me back right now, but absolutely everything that's in the OBLIG. But probably, if you told someone right now that it means Yugoslavia, someone would say, well, we want something else. And it's not a questionable will for anything else, but it's got nothing to do with ZAVNOBiH. I repeat, the anti-fascist character of ZAVNOBiH is neither right nor fair to question, and I don't think it should come to anyone's mind. Returning back to history, at a time when these nations were freed from the Austro-Hungarian occupation, when some people died to leave the Austro-Hungarian occupation? And they did good deeds, and they deserved their streets to bear names. And then it was under some occupation and under some boot that these people fought and realized the first unification of these people. AVNOJ later worked it out in a different way, but now we've forgotten it, 1918, so neither do I, so on. And these were some good deeds, some people who agreed to do it against the occupiers. I don't think it's right, that's what I'll end up with, all of our remarks are here to falsify history, that it shouldn't be done, and that there are things that we can agree on. And I don't know, here's a moment ago Mr. Džaferović said why it wasn't used. And it wasn't because they were maximum demands. I was at Vlašić, and when I saw what was agreed in police reform back then, I don't know if many of you had a chance to see that paper, and those who know what the details were, here is Mr. Džaferović, who saw it, it has nothing to do with today's police reform. And someone said it's a little bit, give me more and it's gone and what's agreed on. Press now, it's over now. And I've seen this paper, and here's my hair getting up and now it's out of that paper, but fortunately someone betrayed the wrong ones, pressed the wrong button in Sarajevo, pushed the wrong command, and it's still gone, we all know where it went. It's about the holidays. I don't see any reason why we can't agree on this if there's agreement between two entities, the consent of the Council of Ministers, the consent of a significant number of MPs, the relevant factors, one part that can afford and be against this, but it's my request that they don't break the state law, that they don't leave a state without one law that allows us, given that the holiday should be celebrated, it should be marked, I don't know how you mean to force someone... I suppose he should have some sort of relationship with that and that he too would find himself in that celebratory atmosphere. I don't know how it's possible to achieve it in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30805	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30806	Here, I know it's a different one, I wish it wasn't this other one, but I have to tell Mr. Kalabić. I agree in one thing that its potential for the issue of OBLIG, etc., that really 116 I WOULD, in its first part of the 25th session, did not bring this issue of religious rights and freedom, but therefore at the second session of the ZLABIH in the Sanh Most, the Declaration of the Rights of Men and Citizens where there has just been an expression of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion where we have obtained the right and celebrate the holidays. It wasn't so rigorous, let's not be afraid... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's another thing that we're going to find right and left some things now. And another thing, I would ask, if I could, to get the answer that nine ministers voted for what you said, because if they voted that and if the MPs agreed, then what are we discussing here? What we, this, (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30809	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30810	This name is the Islamic Declaration, which is constantly being withdrawn by those who have not read it. That is why I call on counterpart Kalabić to bring a sentence next time that has nothing to do with BiH, Yugoslavia, our peoples, etc. You won't find a single sentence like that, but here's a good name for you to have such incorrect steps. As for Yugoslavia, so it wasn't, God Bog, the SDA destroyer of Yugoslavia. It was in our programme declaration the preservation of Yugoslavia. If we were wondering, she'd be modified, preserved. So Yugoslavia broke Karađorđevo, and then JNA, which turned into a Yugoslav army of one nation, did, and attacked other nations and other republics. It broke Yugoslavia. We've done as much as we can, and we've been feathered, not breaking, but introducing democracy, this parliamentary life, etc., and we've done as much as we can to preserve this country, to preserve its multiethnic composition, its spirit, etc. Where the SDA was wondering something, there's still Josip Broz saved the main streets, there's no such thing in the former Yugoslavia, except where we were wondering, because we know that history doesn't start from us. And there are 117 preserved and churches, and synagogues, etc., where we were wondering. We were the feathers of that, Mr. Kalabić. And you, unfortunately, hit the srid, which you said, was a moment when you confirmed the discussion of fellow Slavuj. So whatever we suggest, even if it's good, you'll throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30811	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30812	It's very ugly that you've confirmed that thing. That, unfortunately, you've guessed our problem, which is waiting for the other side to suggest something so that others know what they don't want.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30813	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. I hope we can finish this part of the agenda. Here you go, replica second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30814	Second replica. So, an even more precise answer to this question, Drago Kalabić. He asked a clear question as to why the AVNOJ principles were violated, why they were gone. So, the answer to that question, the precise question has an even more precise answer, even more specifically, what Izetbegović said, which is, therefore, the answer stands in Belgrade, at the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, popularly told SANU, there stands the answer to why the AVNOJ principles are being broken. So in the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, there is an answer – because SANU fought for large Serbia and for these reasons, the principles of AVNOJ have been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30815	Dear colleague Azra Alajbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30816	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually, in some ways, ask my colleague Kalabić – and I am sorry that he spent his two replicas and discussion – to stop giving a lecture on correctness in the most incorrect way I have heard in my life. Indeed, I think, okay, the right to an opinion is something that is legitimately right to think, but the way he's giving the lecture today, I think we could really characterise him as a teacher of dishonesty in this home today, and I would ask him, if he can, to refrain from dividing me. We are here all of us, the state deputies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We have the right to differing opinions, but the constant potential for this is not good for any of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30817	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30818	Is this a business intervention? Business. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30819	Mr. Chairman, I have expressed my opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30820	No, no, this is business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30821	Everyone has the right to respond to the replica, but in a situation where I speak in the Rules of Procedure, I respect everyone's rights, and I don't like it, so I don't lecture anyone. I ask you to ensure that each one of us expresses his democratic position here and that everyone refrains, and anyone who is nervous can come out for a walk, that he walks if he can't, there shouldn't be someone here who has a weak stomach that can't handle the opposite opinion. Whoever comes with one opinion and wants to impose it here at any cost on someone else, violates the Rules of Procedure. One who cannot see the other cannot accept his opinion and exchange arguments, then has a problem, should not be in the state parliament. You have a lot of places in Sarajevo where you have one opinion, one attitude, all the same, and you won't have these problems. But to deny me the right to express my opinion here in the Rules of Procedure and to warn me, I would like you to oppose the argument, I wish you had spoken a little bit about what I was saying. I told the SDP gentlemen who were pre-war government and arrested people who wrote the Islamic Declaration, I didn't arrest them, it was a problem for them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30822	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30823	Business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30824	But please, please, but I said that this is the right way to say this to me. So it wasn't me. People who nurtured the socialist society's fluids felt it was a danger to them and those people were arrested by the then officials and officials of the BiH state. And now
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30825	Time! 119
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30826	I'm done. We want to say how to reconcile it today. I don't even mind, but they didn't want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30827	I think that according to the Rules of Procedure everyone is allowed to express their opinion in an adequate way, I don't think I've stopped anyone from being able to. Since the session has been continued for the third time, we've had two, let me say, funerals, we've had a third follow-up, we've all had an extraordinary session, we're all tense, we're all tired, I've tried not to interrupt people, but try and help me run this session, too. We have two more debaters and we can move to the next agenda point, we have three. Dear Ambassador vino Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30828	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be as short as possible. So I haven't noticed, and here I will discuss among the last, that anyone here has an objection to the content of this law. When I say content, then I mean what's inside, not what's missing. We all think there's a lot missing inside, but it's about amendments and additions to the law. I would like to congratulate the Council of Ministers on this occasion, especially the Minister, if they had come to one law. The way he is, he should be ours. I often have a feeling, maybe I'm wrong, and I apologize to those I think about, and if I'm wrong to often be in BiH, even in my tower, my people, I often like to lose something there rather than get it. So someone with some dates would like to prove something and show someone else. I don't think that's good, that we should take what we can arrange, not what we can't arrange. At one point, I remember very well because we were in the House of Peoples together, said that it was not agreed that one date on November 25th was called 'The Day of ZAVNOBiH', and it was. So it's not acceptable to call the day after what he was, and then there was a consensus on it. So it's going to show that statehood has continuity. No one would mind if it were possible, wanted and had arguments to prove it, but that it proved to be one date from 1943 called Statehood Day, I don't think it's good. The continuity of statehood is not guaranteed by law. You see, here several times, especially colleague Denis Bećirović mentioned that our neighbours have Independence Day, Statehood Day, etc. Well, as far as I can see, he mentioned a Serbian case, or case of the Republic of Serbia having a thousand and eight hundred years, whether or not, Statehood Day. For example, the Republic of Croatia has from 1990. So they changed it in the next ten years, in 2000 they changed it, it's not 30 anymore. It's 5. It's 25. Six, and it didn't bother them at all to be less state or less state-owned. Also, it was also mentioned here that ZANOSH wanted Yugoslavia, but that's when everyone else left then we're going to now, we're not going to call it ZAVNOBiH anymore, we're going to call it State Day. So if they all left, then I guess it was the same day, so let's all have the same day as State Day. But who are we to determine to the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, Slovenia, Croatia that we all have the same day of statehood. They chose, let's go and we choose. Are we going to mention how counterpart Raguž, colleague Džaferović, colleague Dokić or we will put on three neutral dates and choose one and by random choice. It would be good if we could agree, but in no case should today's law be challenged, or stopped in this first reading, because we have a second reading. I'm also thinking of writing an amendment and I'm sure I'll write it if there's an amendment phase. My colleague Selim Bešlagić – I am not replicating this but encouraged me, so I would be a little longer and longer than I thought – asked to inform our representatives here, or the House of Representatives who voted in the Council of Ministers. If he's going to settle for it, then I've been asking since 1996 to report to every law how the ministers voted. So, not only by this law, but by all laws so far... as voted in the Council of Ministers. I'm against it, because I'm against it, people who are with me in these committees know when it's written that something was adopted with five votes "yes", and "no" were, then name and last name. I am against such records and I am against that record in the Council of Ministers if it is so guided. Of course, I cannot challenge him to write by name and last name who is “for ” and who is“ against. ” What's that for? We know the power of the law when they are revoted and one and the other, and a third nation in various bodies of BiH institutions. So, I want to say here that all those who will not support this law because there is nothing in it are not on the right track. This is due to amendments, and the principles and principles of this law should be supported and everything that is not in it and we would like it to be, to be in it, we will address it with amendments. And I once again express my position on this, I will uphold the law in first reading, and I will act in amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30829	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30830	Just for a little while. I don't think my colleague Zorić and I understand each other. So, I did not say in my discussion that this 2001 deal to ZAVNOBiH, on November 25th, was recognised by the ZAVNOBiH's constitution in the agreement, and was taken away by that agreement by the importance of Statehood Day. The agreement did not contain either. Those who made that deal, so they ruled out statehood day and ZAVNOBiH, but they said on November 25th it was antifascism day, just so, and of course, it couldn't go through and I was saying in that context and that's what I said. Just so my colleague Zorić and I can explain ourselves. And only those who are trying to challenge MEETING because of the collapse of AVNOH by claiming that I would be connected to AVNOJ and that he should experience fate as well as AVNOJ and, respectively, Avnoj's Yugoslavia. That's right, so it's true that ZOVNOBIH was brought into AVNOJ, but it's true that the AVNOH as well as AVNOJ had its constitutional development, since the Constitution of '46, '51, '53, '63, '71, '74. Years, '91. The years and all that's been going on are continuity. The continuity has ensured BiH's right to do what it has done, what other republics have done and to move into this independence. And it's not, it's not supposed to, and it's not an argument that's supposed to take down November 25th. That's it. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30831	Thank you. Replica reply, Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30832	This will be an atypical response to the replica. I accept what my colleague Džaferović said and I am not getting up here to prove anything to anyone, I was wrong. Indeed, you told your colleague Džaferović that it was mentioned as the day of the anti-fascist fight, not as the day of ZAVNOBiH. I am today, it seems to me that my colleague Bakir, this is not his replica and many, for me is the story of a passe who loves BiH. It's, it's the same for me that someone's saying they love children. We know that there's a deviating situation and a bad situation, that someone doesn't even love their child, but it's a disease. So, if there are those who do not like BiH, let them be identified and counted, let them be freely written here in front of the institutions: these people do not like BiH. I mean, for me, that story is a pass. And what my colleague Džaferović said, I do, and I got it wrong, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30833	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30834	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers and others, I will not say anything smart after such a long debate, but I wanted to say something that I think would be significant for BiH. So if we don't want to have something, then we can say the exact opposite and everything we say more the opposite is the less chance of having something. I sincerely congratulate the Minister for sending any proposal to the Council of Ministers. This is a significant law, and pessimists or maximumists will say that it is no law, that this represents nothing, that it represents nothing. And the optimists in terms of the one or the minimalists will say, "You know, it's too much for us." ... there is one fact in BiH and if there is a law as part of the continuity in its territory in a significant part of BiH, even these dates that are proposed in the same way are not marked. What, what can we do? So, is there anything that's maximum at this point, part of some minimum and some middle average? ...will not escape BiH anywhere. She is a member of the UN, she will be a member of the EU and will be a member of the NATO Pact, she has her own constitution, she has two entities in which some views should be respected and would have, for example, this law that has one... few members, but has significant two members. It's marking holidays and harmonising other regulations with this law. That's very important. It would be significant if, in every environment, both in the RS and in the Federation, the days we agreed on were the same. Now it'll be maybe four or five days, maybe in six months there'll be another day around which we'll be able to reach a consensus. Maybe in five years, someone else will make a deal for us. But burying yourself on one side and saying that nothing is impossible, because it's not maximum, and that nothing should be, because it's not minimal, I think it's completely insane and there's no political... 122 I did not discuss here in the sense of anyone to criticise someone in that sense to say who I agree with and who I disagree with, but I believe that it is a step by step and that we will achieve something. This isn't going to bring down any economies, but we're going to have one symbolism. We'd need that symbolism. If we try to say that symbolism is in what one half disagrees with, it is impossible to achieve. Let's make something, let's do it, let's even start with something. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30835	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30836	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the distinguished guests, I must say in the beginning that I have no intention of even praising the Minister. So this is a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and today's debate on this proposal has essentially shown in which environment this proposal has even come to our benches. And it is obvious that there is still no possibility in this country that BiH's holidays are defined as the title of the law. And that's a fact. That's why I said I didn't want to brag or shame the minister, because I don't think the minister is responsible or guilty of having what he has here in this law. This is the consequence of our overall relationship and, unfortunately, we are not even about this law and everyone will agree that – I will then really talk about the principles of this law – there is nothing that should be irritated. However, we have not missed the opportunity to compete again on our own projections or interpretations, rather, closer to history, with the intense insistence that only my true, my rights, and that everything else cannot and cannot be so. And that's that ambience in which, here, this article was found on our benches. I won't agree that everything is acceptable in this law, and now I'm going to talk a little bit about the law, although everything seems to be acceptable. Article 1 of this law says that this law determines the days of BiH's holidays, etc. What article further sets a holiday for BiH? New Year's Eve, Day of work, Day of Europe, Christmas (Catholic or Orthodox), Bajram (one or the other). I'm sorry, it's not the holidays of BiH. So with everything, I don't know, trying to present it as a holiday for BiH, it's not the holidays of BiH. They are, some are international, some are Catholic, some are Orthodox, some are Islamic, but religious or international, in short, yes. But the holidays of BiH -- I disagree. That they, some of these holidays, have been celebrated in BiH for centuries, and without such and any law, it is absolutely true, some shorter. So this law will neither make it impossible for any Catholic to celebrate the coming Catholic Christmas, I am convinced of that because they celebrated last year when this law was not there. It will not make it impossible for any representative of the Orthodox religion that here is the upcoming Orthodox Christmas celebration, because they celebrated it and when this law was gone, etc., that I do not keep counting, and the New Year that is coming, etc. In the absence of political will that we agree at least on one day, I will not bid on what day it is, because whatever I say will be at least two against it, at least, meaning we have this proposal, this matter of working days, employees of religious holidays is labour law and it is defined there, it is the right of employees to work in certain days not 123, so it is said, I don't know, working week goes on, I don't know what, 40 hours, 42 hours, and that employees have the right to vacation and have the right to..., and I think it even has in some laws that define the Labour Act or already in which law. So that's already defined. This in these laws is defined as working days and other days, so it really means that there is no need for such a law. And I have to say, I don't think we need to calm our conscience, let's say, here it is, we finally have one law that introduces us into some rights, which defines something that we haven't had so far. So this law is not that, and I think that for that reason, for all good reason, it means that there's even something that can't be come up with a quality solution, just for that reason. So this isn't, again I'm saying, a review of neither the Minister nor the Council of Ministers, because at this point there's simply no solution and that's what today's debate has shown. So there is no solution that can pass in this House. So there is no minister, there is no council of ministers who can propose such a solution, so in that context I say it is not a criticism of the minister, no matter who he was. So, we talked today, discussed everything and everything, but at least, I'm saying, the essence of this law, and I think it's best, where luck goes, I have to say now, after all these discussions today, that we didn't even have this on the agenda, because at least we'd all be spared reminding ourselves of our reality. At least we could live in illusions that here is the time of war 15 years behind us, obviously it's much closer than it seems to us. It means that our tendency, the need to deal with history, and when and when it is not necessary, is indeed stronger than the need for certain laws to define some relations, including the question of some state or, as I would call them, national holidays in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30837	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Reguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30838	Well, here's the thing, I rarely replicate, and now it's not my intention to replicate, it's to clarify. This law sets these dates: New Year's, May 1st, May 9th and Europe's Day as the holidays of BiH. So it can't be said that tomorrow it won't be BiH's holiday. It's a replica of what the esteemed co-chairman was saying. Because another thing is that we believe that the day of statehood of some others should also be the holidays of BiH. But this, if this law is passed and one day I hope, Bog bless all of us, the sooner it will be the holidays of BiH. And another thing. We don't need to live in illusions. The sooner we face reality, the sooner I don't delay, here, and that's why I answered, I think this debate was good today to show this reality, and I recommend we all return to reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30839	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30840	I also think the debate was useful, that we told each other about our positions. Of course, there were extra things. I'll agree most of the time and I won't repeat what Mr. Lozančić was talking about, respecting, of course, this intervention of Mr. Raguž. But basically, what Mr. Lozančić was saying is what he was saying. However, I've only reported the most for two or three things, very briefly. So it's often said minimum – maximum, minimum – maximum. And there's this kind of logic that can be achieved as much as possible, and it needs to be asked not to be minimal, but to some consensus, etc. But there are things that are common practice, there are standards, there is need. So we have to think about it a little bit, so there's a need, that there's some practice, some standard in other countries. So we're not alone, so we have to keep that in mind. The entity's consent has been mentioned here for a while, and then support. I absolutely respect and it is very good to get as much support as possible for some legal project, including, of course, support from entity structures. However, when it comes to BiH MPs, we do not act in a manner of agreement between federal institutions in the official sense of the word. Of course, we don't ignore opinions, but we do count and see ourselves as MPs in the State Paralymant, and we don't follow, so to speak, the Federation's instructions. And of course, with the absolute respect of Mr Nović's initiative, he is doing his job, whether I support or not to support my law, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, the minister from our party did not support this law, and we have often heard here that some of the ministers from some parties did not support it and that it was a signal to the party. Of course, for us, in some ways, the implementation of a certain policy on certain matters and attitudes towards certain things is reflected in the Council of Ministers and here in the state parliament. But in any case, we need to discuss the arguments and, of course, make it possible for everyone to give their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30841	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30842	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I was in a dilemma after such a long discussion about whether or not to replicate and decided to do so. My replica sent to Mr. Prodanović. In fact, at one point, he used the expression that those who have an opinion which is explicitly stated here, and several MPs I have stated that against the principles and against this law in the first reading, among those MPs I belong, he called such an opinion foolish. I think he's really out of line here, and I think... he's lost it, so I'd like to hear it from him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30843	Thank you. 125 Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30844	Mr. Chairman, even though I said I wouldn't replicate, but I'm using a replica more to make an appeal. Respecting all the fact that we're going to celebrate some holidays, and if we have this law and we don't have it, it's not the same thing as celebrating other people's holidays, and we're not celebrating our holidays. We celebrate the Day of Victory over Fascism as another's holiday, it's not our holiday. We celebrate the New Year's Eve, not because it's a holiday in BiH, but what everyone else celebrates and we celebrate. We celebrate May 1st not because it is a holiday BiH but because everyone else in Europe celebrates it, etc., etc. So my appeal, if there is any state responsibility ahead of us, let us accept this proposal sent by this ministry, or by the Council of Ministers, to enable another phase, if we should give them more time, instead of 15, give them a month for this amendment phase and give them reasonablely without disqualifying each other and putting ourselves in these and those camps, calling for the history of this and that which we are experiencing, not really what it is, to try to come to a solution that will be acceptable to everyone. I deeply believe that, here after the break and after the talks within the clubs, there will be enough conscience that we will pass at least the first round and give the opportunity to more constructive one approach and objective conversations and mutual conversations, so if we have to go to that bar and to the clubs before we get here by the rule of disqualifying ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30845	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30846	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I really don't think I called anyone stupid here. I believe that everyone had the right to express their opinion, here in any sense and whoever, and it doesn't matter whether any of us agree or disagree, because we're going to have the amendment phase of this law. I repeat once again, and I believe that for this country, this parliament would be of great benefit if some issues, which cover more than this law, which would be translated into an amendment form, could be agreed. So I'm just saying that, but I absolutely didn't say anything about anyone, I was talking about some, in a certain sense, exclusive maximumist attitudes and demands and those that are, in a certain sense, minimalistic. I also said that I also think that there are some common issues that we have agreement on, maybe we're not quite getting close. But I also think there are many questions that would be proposed in the amendment form, which would be absolutely unacceptable either for one or, conditionally speaking, for the other and for the third or fourth. And one more thing, I think it would be absurd, so if everyone in Parliament agreed, here's a conditional statement. Now that some political parties three or four... are dominantly belonging to one constituent people and I am convinced that there is a difference in opinion. So, I apologize to my esteemed colleague Suljkanović if I am, I'd like to listen to that stenogram, but I didn't want to call anyone stupid, it doesn't even come to mind. 126 That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30847	The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30848	Thank you. Obviously, this was a replica in the sense that we hadn't heard from each other. But there have been discussions in which, I say, very difficult things have been said, and we have gone over them only to avoid further tension here in Parliament, and it is difficult to explain them. It is difficult to explain that someone is giving himself the right to play doctor even though it is not his profession and to call all those who do not like BiH to be sick, especially if it is known where the border is so that they can love their country, which is the limit when... they exceed the measure. Does it mean that all those who went out of Yugoslavia were sick? Is it unconditional love for one country that makes us love one country, and is it the love in which half of the earth wants to deny the other half? Could the man who said that this is the dungeon of the people of BiH love this country and did we who said that this is not exactly how we put salt on the wound, can this country be loved? Not to open that story, that wasn't my goal. I mean, obviously, we're tired, so we get through this stuff here. I mean, we can have the law, that BiH can have the law. There's nothing in this law that offends any of us here. This law can be fixed so that in the next period we have a law... in which we act in amendment on two, I think, a crystallized request. One OBVIOUS, the other Dejton. Let's separate archaeological value and separate what we think is the sovereignty of some of these dates. Why shouldn't ZAVNOBiH be a fight against the fascism of BiH and treated as an archaeological name and Dayton be BiH's statehood? Let's try to find a compromise. You can't ask for a compromise if the law collapses at first reading. Let's see how we can move on. Everything or nothing in this country just doesn't pass. We're going through what we can agree on, step by step, move on. I'm willing to move on. Thank you. Minister Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30849	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, of course, I have listened very carefully without any burden on all your discussions and deeply convinced that this issue could have been resolved this way certainly would have been resolved much earlier, neither would my ministry nor the Council of Ministers' assembly be waiting. This is what is crucial and unfortunately showed that in this country up to consensus is very difficult or almost not coming. If I were to answer the question of who voted in the Council of Ministers, it would be beneath my dignity and dignity because it's a matter of my colleagues who, sovereignly, can vote on their own in the Council of Ministers and I am not a spokesman for any minister, especially the Council of Ministers, to present such information. You can get that on the asked delegate question, so it's probably someone's going to consider how to answer that. For me, my colleagues are all alike and I don't see 127 for any reason and I equally appreciate them and those who are for this or against this law and that's just the way it is. It's not like I can't agree that there are, as some say, nothing for BiH at all, that these are not the laws, or holidays of BiH. It will never be if they are not legally established. You can, as much as we want to talk about international holidays, no holiday has ever been respected anywhere if that country has not established it as a holiday and that country or emphasized it as an international holiday. Therefore, I believe that by accepting these dates as well as internationally they can be ours, why not. Just two or three sentences. Also, I can't accept the opinions of those who think we shouldn't allow another attempt to compromise. This isn't the first law, you know very well, on which we faced each other in the first step. And there were very difficult laws here, no less difficult than this one, except this one is a little more political than some other questions. Not because of me, at least it's because of me personally. Personally as a minister, we will neither increase the price nor drop the price in this BiH, but let's take another step forward and try what is missing from this law to install amendments and agree on another, three, five dates, but let's not miss the opportunity to sit and agree. There's no one else to get along, it's not gonna go along like that. I can tell you quite correctly that for this law that we have all the options that you have presented today, all the dates we had on the dream, that a joint committee of the Council of Ministers and two entities has been formed, with a desire to reach a unique position. Of course, when all is considered, it was seen that these are very different attitudes and that is why it is simply said then: let’s agree on what we all agree on, not what we disagree on. So unaccounted for, as we would say, the positive opinion of both entities and came to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers reached a law that did. Secondly, don't just tell me that today in BiH, everyone will celebrate the Bayrams and Christmases equally. They will, but how, and who has many days, and who smuggles simply to celebrate it, and shame or fear to say, and I would celebrate this here, and I would in this second part of BiH that. And don't just tell me that in addition to these holidays, three more dates are key that we propose that the peoples of BiH celebrate, for which the Interreligious Council said that, and the Serbian Orthodox Church, and the Catholic Church, and the Islamic Community, and Jevrej have a desire and the right to remain unemployed for some days in BiH. It is not regulated by the country's labour legislation, and particularly not regulated by the working legislation of entities, cantons or municipalities that cannot resolve the issue. It's a huge issue and religious holidays here just to sort it out in BiH. And that's one of those fundamental rights that someone here said that BiH citizens, believers have the right to get those days and everyone says (no, no, no, and in Banja Luka, and in Tuzla, and in Bihac and everywhere) this is my day. My day is flesh or my day is all holy or it's my day, I don't know, some other or third and you can't make me work that day, I'm that day, gentlemen, home and sitting. So I appeal, indeed I appeal to you all, and for who knows for which time, not for me, this law, besides that, is worth it, and if only we could establish religious holidays. In addition, it obliges us to pass a special Law on Religious Holidays on the basis of a contract with the Catholic and Orthodox Church that has concluded BiH with those communities, but we have gone one step further and felt that this should be resolved in a unified manner and that is why we have achieved full agreement with the Interreligious Council. I'm not going to tell you what it was, some who asked to change these religious holidays, why it's this or that, but I think it should also be dignified to religious heads, who know best and represent their communities, 128 which are holidays for their believers who should be like the day off. So I think, like that people's, "Let's start one more love, maybe they'll give us a result." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30850	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 14th point of the agenda, with the agreement in the College and the proposal of our Commission on Transport and Communications to bring together the 14th, 15th and 16th points of the agenda and having a single debate, since all three laws concern compliance with the Law on Gender Equality, which, given that there are three negative opinions, we are actually discussing negative opinions. And if you don't mind if I don't put it on the vote to open it that way, that's the debate about "Ad." 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, Law No 01,02-02-3-97/09, of 16. Ten. 2009 (first reading) Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public TV Service of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications, Law No 01,02-3-98/09, of 16. Ten. 2009 (first reading) Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-99/09, of 16. Ten. 2009 (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered all three laws to regular procedure 16. Ten. In 2009. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 2. 11 and supported the constitutional basis. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 18. 11. The opinion is negative, and today we are discussing, as I said, opinions negative on all three laws. I'm opening a debate. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30852	Dear Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, forgive me, please, but I am reporting for the first time today so I will take the opportunity, first of all, to thank you humanly for your support, participation and all that you have done in the wake of the sudden death of our club president. Thank you very much. It's very difficult for us, but without your participation and condolences, it would be even harder for us. 129 Here, I'm sorry to do this in the middle of the session, but there was no room to say thank you once again at the very beginning on behalf of all of us at the SDP Club. Secondly, I say thank you again, thank you very much for bringing us together, after one of these days of uncertain and turbulent non-session in the first part of the day, to have a united discussion and, of course, to lead her on these three points of the agenda related to the Commission's negative position on traffic. So I have to react to the conclusion on behalf of the Commission on Gender Equality, and that is why I have given myself the right to report, because the conclusion of the Transport Commission is completely identical for all three laws. I must first break some doubts, or misinformation, or lack of information because, unfortunately, I was present in the course of the discussion of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public TV Service, the TV system and the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Communication Act, and reminding us that the Commission's activity in the beginning of last year, so in our mandate, at least more members of the Commission besides me and our Commission President, Mr Zorić, that we had a public debate that was organised by the Commission for Equality here in this White Hall and in which the representatives of the gender equality agencies of both entities, our agency at the level of the state and a large number of called media and media representatives discussed the roles and place of the media, the promotion of equality of women and men in our society and the place of business. The result of this public debate is the conclusions that we passed on to the Gender Equality Agency as the Commission and experts from the Gender Equality Agency at the Ministry of Human Rights of the Council of Ministers have resulted in amendments to these laws. So this was not about any bypass, alterations, or turning some of the elections already started, appointments, or so forth. So I must tell you that it is impossible to accept the Commission's negative opinions in all three cases of proposed amendments, because it is said that it is not acceptable for all existing laws at BiH level to individually comply with the Law on Equality. I don't know if it's acceptable, but I know it's mandatory. We, by adopting the Law on Gender Equality under the obligation of Article 30, as our lawyers say, have made a commitment to align all state and entity laws as well as other relevant regulations with the provisions of this law within six months at the latest. We've passed the law. I know you're talking about it and you're even suggesting from the Traffic Commission to change this Article 30. Okay, but it seems to me that in our country, by adopting some laws that lead us to a community of democratically developed societies, we don't bring it just for strictly formal reasons, but to change perceptions or customs, or practice, to be even more precise, in our country. It is impossible to apply the provisions of gender equality directly in all segments literally, but it is possible to slowly start the Law on Gender Equality, that is, substances that process human rights, together with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and I am all stating the laws that we have adopted and that they begin to be built into our daily legislative practice. We have concluded at this public conference or in public... however you wish, that we are particularly interested in the area of education, employment, social and health protection, public life and the media for the simple reason that these are the first areas in which the most women are fragmented, in business terms. And secondly, as the media is a public presentation of equality or non-discriminatory treatment of women, the media, the media, or the instrument to change certain stereotypes, to expose certain dogmas, or to say that some narcissistic customs are advanced or out of date, rather than those that do not correspond to the present time. 130 I apologize if I've used an ugly term. So, our obligation is as a legislative body, but not only ours at the state level, but also at all other legislative levels, that such laws as the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination or the Law on Gender Equality, which are the laws of sui generis, as our lawyers say, must be in the legal system of BiH, they must be starting points for all too. Now, in order for me to stop wasting your time, I just want to point out that we've passed the conclusions, I'm very surprised at the colleagues who have been participating in this public debate that they've ignored it, and since there really isn't any scrupulous action and the dispute is, you know very well what's controversial in all these proposed laws, and these are that the advantage of the two same candidates is given to the less-represented sex, etc. I've even got one more proposal. Perhaps in the transitional and final provisions and one, and the long, and third amendments, it should be stressed that none of these laws can be applied to the process of selecting appointments that have already begun. This is for the simple reason to show you that our goodwill has been in terms of future status and improvement of opportunities and equal opportunities without discrimination against sex, and it is not possible that some agreed within the framework of positioning policies, appointments, committees, leaderships, are now derrogated by the application of this law. At the end of the line, no law should, as a rule, be applied retrogradely, and hence, the procedure of this law. But I'm really asking you to understand that we can't volunteer to treat the laws. And it's really just incomprehensible for me, colleague Dokić, that your commission could have said - so we can't comply with the laws of one law that is sui generis. That, we can say we're not ready, but we can't say in one committee of the legislature that we won't comply with the laws of the basic law that we're going to come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30853	I thank the honourable representative Malić. The next is the second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. I'm asking the services to call the representatives in the hall so we don't interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30854	Of course, I respect the conclusion, and I'm discussing both 14, and 15 and 16. I'm a little confused right now. To tell you the truth, it was perfectly acceptable to me what the committee led by Mr Dokić suggested. So she simply suggested, without prejudice to the need to ensure gender equality, that it is simpler and more practical to amend Article 30 and that it would thus create the assumption that, in full capacity, this commitment to gender equality is achieved. And now I'm a little confused, of course Mr. Dokić came forward and he'll probably explain to us what's going on, is that possible through this Article 30, because for practical reasons, Mrs. Malić, if possible the same effect, the exact same effect is achieved by amending Article 30. The law on gender equality instead of changing dozens of laws, then why don't we do it. And if it's not possible, then let's go back so we don't support our opinion and repeat the procedure. And one more thing, I've talked about it before, I speak for myself, I miss the opinion of the ministries. I always wish I had the Ministry's opinion, not just a commission. 131 Here, the Commission's report states that two opinions were received from two ministries, but I do not know what opinions they are. That's probably left at the level of this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30855	I thank my esteemed colleague, Belkić. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30856	Mr. Chairman, I will share my discussion in two parts. The first part is a replica that will be in two sentences to the esteemed colleague Mirjana, and the second part I will speak on behalf of the Commission. Replica Mirjana. I personally voted in favour of this law, and if my colleague Mirjana had convinced her colleagues who had convinced this committee as she had now convinced, then we would be discussing the law in phase two today, and we would not be talking about the negative opinion of this commission. So much for this. If she hadn't called me in the end, I wouldn't have mentioned this. But, look, here, I say, I voted for this with respect and appreciation for the struggle to establish equality, but I honestly thought this was as it was written down better, which Mr. Belkić was just talking about. Neither were those who were there at this meeting on behalf of... Gender equality agencies did not have the arguments to disprove this fact, our suggestion that a member of this Law on Gender Equality, a 30th member, that it is recast, that it is very clumsyly set up where it has said all the laws to be changed. And then there was this logic – what does that mean? Now we've singled out a number of laws, so where we change it, it's going to be an obligation; and where we don't change it, it won't be an obligation and it won't apply there, and we thought it was much more effective and faster here, but at the next session, it's going to file a request to change this Article 30, which is going to formulate that it implies that in all areas this Law on Gender Equality and Define etc., etc. So here's to you MPs, decide whatever you want, although I once again emphasized, I was in favour, and I think this proposal as it was, as it was formulated, more rationally looking at in a broader context.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30857	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. The next is distinguished representative Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30858	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I am one of those members of the Commission for Transport and Communications who voted against, stressing that I really advocate gender equality in all segments and pores of society. I would also have one proposal on these points, so the proposal is related to points 14, 15 and 16 of our present session of 64th session, and the proposal reads: "The Council of Ministers is in charge of the adoption of the laws under points 14, 15 and 16 of the urgent approaches to amending and supplementing the Law on Gender Equality which would create the basis for the harmonisation of all other laws at the state level with the Law on Gender Equality in BiH (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No 16/03”). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30859	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Suljkanović. The next is the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30860	I don't have to repeat everything my colleague Mirjana said, but I'll just say a few things here. This was one of the activities of our commission, and I thank the Council of Ministers who proposed this law, so I am surprised, and here is my colleague Belkić, who asked him to be interested in the ministry's position. I think if it went through the ministry and the ministry gave a positive assessment and passed the law through the Council of Ministers, I don't know why they would still ask me what they think there in the Council of Ministers about this law. Also, we cannot say: something better can be achieved by amending Article 30. We won't follow article 30 of the existing law until he, better change it so it'll be easier for us, we won't have to align the other laws with that. We have to have the law. When that changes, then we'll be able to delete some articles in the laws, because we'll say this is unnecessary in law because the article of the 30th amended Law on Gender Equality has been achieved and this is an surplus in these laws and in particular, in hundreds of other laws. So it says that the laws on gender equality must be brought into line. We also have a 15th public debate, gender equality in textbooks. We may have some conclusions again, and through the Council of Ministers, we will have some suggestions again and again this home will challenge everything that goes towards gender equality, and we will all declare that we are for gender equality in BiH. We have seen the example when the Committee for Gender Equality proposed amendments and additions to the Electoral Law. Everyone in the field asks me, "Are you serious? Someone thinks we're messing with that law here, yeah, and they obviously have to conclude that because that's how the House of Representatives was handled. The law has been rejected, which provides 30% of the minority gender in representative homes with the current 10%, from the municipality level to the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Why? Because someone says, well, it's the achievement of democracy. The achievement of democracy cannot be open lists and the quota set. The given quotas only make sense if the lists are closed. But that's not what we're gonna do here. We won't comply with the law now because we think it can be solved more effectively. I would believe that we had a proposal on, why are we, colleague Suljkanović, going to ask the Council of Ministers? Let's put in charge of the Committee on Gender Equality or the Commission on Transport and Communications to do so. Now we will conclude that someone is changing Article 30 and we have the right, each individual here, every member of this Parliament has the right to propose it. Therefore, what I am proposing is also contained what my colleague Suljkanović is proposing. So it's possible to do that. I propose that we draw only one conclusion on these three 133 points, so points 14, 15 and 16 are not to accept the Commission's report and return it to the Commission. If the legislator is there on the Commission, and I tell you that directly, therefore, this Parliament is the legislator of this law, through the Commission, through a public debate, and these conclusions have gone through the Agency to the Council of Ministers, that if we conclude that it is more effective to amend this article, this article, the amendments to this Law on Gender Equality, so the amendments to Article 30 will come here by emergency procedure, and we solve the problem. So let's go to the Commission one more time, especially because the result of the vote in all three cases was tight, is it 3:3. Let's do it one more time. And that's my proposal for a conclusion. If you need to write it, I will write it under all three points not to accept reports, it is simple, not to accept the reports of the Commission and to once again, to get the laws back to the Committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30861	Thank you. You don't have to write a conclusion. We certainly vote on the Commission's opinion and it will be, in accordance with the vote, returned or rejected. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić. Here you go. It's a replica, probably, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30862	Yeah, but I have to ask what it means to get back at this committee. To return to this commission means to consider the same, not a new proposal, not to supplement the Gender Equality Act, Article 30, but to what is proposed. And so, this commission will probably vote if they are the same. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? _________(?) I suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30865	Thank you. The point is to return to this commission to make a conclusion in which direction they need to move on. And every time we made one conclusion and gave guidance how this commission should continue to work. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30866	Well, Mr. Chairman, you just said what I was about to say. I would agree if you would commit me, I'm not fully convinced that today's conclusion, here I will accept that the conclusion of this home is made by the Committee for Gender Equality to approach the amendment of this article 30 if we will achieve the full effect of what is wanted in the legislation. But it may be better to call the representatives of the ministry and the representatives of both the Commission and the other committee to agree on this commission; if it is possible to do so by correcting Article 30, I am absolutely in favour. So here, you said briefly what I wanted to say in response.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30867	Thank you. It would just be much more operational if the debaters wrote the conclusion that both commissions are bound to go in the direction of amendments to Article 30, so agree on which commission this will be done and in which direction. I think it would be good for you to form a conclusion and deliver it here in writing and vote on it. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30868	I'll be very brief, I voted for the Commission's conclusion. Therefore, I am not ashamed of what it is, but it is confirmed by the people, saying, The way to hell is paved with good intentions. I'm asked a question, which we couldn't get an answer to, whether it's better to change Article 30 and whether it becomes binding without the laws coming here now that are going to comply with that article. Because if it's any law we have to comply with that article, then we're going to have hundreds of laws here, and we're going to say that we're doing well, and we're not doing anything but that 30 that's standing there to apply. It's just that we're here to bring and verify it. Furthermore, it was a good intention to see if it was from a legal point of view, whether it is possible from a legislative point of view to align that Article 30 in that sense that it becomes binding without, I would say, amending now all the laws that must apply this Article 30 on gender equality. So if you give us a clue on how we're going to go in this debate, I think it's good. And he said Vinko Zorić if you can do something like that, but I would ask, the legal side has to say it. I'm not, I'm a layman. And that's why I thought it better with one member to complete the process of harmonising with all the laws than now to bring in a hundred laws here and we 135 are doing effectively, except we're going to install what already exists in that law. If he really is the law he has to abide by, I think it would be better to amend and commit to the application of that law by one member.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30869	Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30870	Thank you very much, my dear chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, excuse me for taking up a lot of time, but please, we even have, if we have an obligation, to respect the UN committees,... the views... supervise, or the Committee for the Elimination and Discrimination of Women; if it doesn't oblige us anything, don't read. But if it obliges us as a very proud member of the UN, there is just 'expressed concern over the lack of representation of women', and I am not reading further, and it is asked of BiH 'to speed up the harmonisation process of the law in order to respect the obligation set out in Article 30 (2) of the Law on Equality'. Now let's see it this way. We formally have a big difference between the situation in the country of deura and de facto. We're not a country that has bad legislation. We're just a country that has an unequal practice. It is a great struggle to create one true place for a woman in today's society, regardless of all our needs to follow and respect our tradition, I fall first into that when I say ours, I don't exempt myself, and regardless of the need to build a country. I'll be Pazić on time. I have no intention of spending more than I'm allowed. But here we are, and when we were making changes and supplementing the Law on Equality, we heard from respected colleagues that what has us here is our reality, that it is, among other things, a reflection of the will of the voters. We also heard the other day, or recently at the Regional Conference of Parliamentarian women from experts from Hanover that it is very relative to what is coming and what is coming in the process of democratisation... of the electoral system and finely explained to us that it is the closing of the list, if the starting point is open, step back. But if the starting point is legal and public status and equality of women in society, then closing the list wouldn't be a step back, here are my fellow witnesses. But please, I really do plead, don't change Article 30, so it won't be worth where equality should be worth it. If we make such a change, we can fool ourselves, we won't fool those who are still in a position to judge us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30871	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30872	Here's the first time I've ever used a replica, and I answered it because a colleague called Bešlagić. Namely, he is a hard-skinned opposition and I respect that, and apparently, I have not yet lived in the opposition bench and at the session itself, I have proposed to my colleague Bešlagić: let us support the two of us in the opposition to allow the position to have as many laws as possible. He disobeyed me, and now we've come to this position that we've come to. 136 But in any case, as far as this commission is concerned, here I am as its president, I will advocate what the Gender Equality Commission is behind. _________(?) Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30873	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30874	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I'd like to make a contribution, very briefly, to this debate. Reading, meaning these laws, reasons and reasons for the adoption of the law and the Commission's opinion, is the same reason for all three reasons why laws are passed and the same is the Commission's argument that it rejects this. I really think that... we have the same goal and I think that we are almost sharing the thought that this should be supported throughout Parliament, that there is not one MP against this, but the question is how to achieve that goal. The question is how we can achieve this goal hastily. Can we quickly achieve this goal by really adopting, I feel, hundreds of laws, amending hundreds of laws in this way, or is it possible to resolve it more effectively, in another way. In that sense, I also understand this conclusion of the Commission, and I think that in this way, not only as a member of the 30th law, but also as possible to some other members of the law, I think that we can come to a more effective goal and faster, rather than by forcing hundreds of laws, which we will get here, change and align only this member. And in that sense, I think that this proposal for a conclusion that Mr. Mehmedović suggested might be a solution with enlargement, because we have received these three laws on the proposal of the Gender Equality Agency in BiH, not from this ministry, not the Council of Ministers, but the Agency found this as a solution. Maybe the Agency didn't have the right answer. This debate will lead to the possibility that the Agency may also get a better solution and that, in a unique way, it is possible to amend that law, which would be binding on all other laws that treat this area. In that sense, I expect, here, this conclusion that was, I think Suljkanovic's request is good, extended with the obligation of this Gender Equality Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30875	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30876	Well, on the basis of these discussions, I would like to try to amend my original proposal, which would now read: 'The Commission for Transport and Communications and the Commission for 137 Gender Equality', that regarding the proposals of the law under points 14, 15 and 16 of the 64th session of the House of Representatives is urgently preparing amendments and additions to the Law on Gender Equality which would create the basis for bringing all other laws in line with the Law on Gender Equality in BiH.'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30877	Thank you. Please in writing. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30878	Here, I want to be one of the members of the Committee and I want to point out that I voted in favour of the Committee, but we were in the minority. I'm going to say why I've been positive, and I'm not far from supportive and in this thinking, but for him personally, and I believe everyone who thinks like that, needs an answer that nobody's still offering. Is it possible to amend Article 30. The law on gender equality is such that it is imperatively older and imposed on all other laws that treat areas where we want to establish gender equality as something that would be legal? Is this the Legislative Office, whether our Constitutional Commission or someone else can give us a decadent answer? If possible, we can apply this to many of these laws we are talking about. I supported a positive opinion on these three laws because I saw no reason for the efforts made by the Committee for Gender Equality, the Council of Ministers as a Proposer, in the end, to reject it now. If we do not get a positive answer from someone who is measured to answer whether only through the amendment of the Law on Gender Equality continues to bring many laws in line, or that there is no need to intervene in them anymore, then we will certainly be forced to change each law individually. And I don't see any reason to stop the change in these three laws when the good part of the procedure has already been done. We have scheduled changes and supplements that aren't large. And I wouldn't agree with these proposals that are emerging today as new, to get in the way again, not knowing if we're going to achieve anything in the Law on Gender Equality. I would be a supporter of the fact that we still reject this negative opinion and let these three laws go, and in the meantime, to get an answer as to whether it is possible for the Gender Equality Act to be governed by all other laws in the field of gender equality. I don't know if that's what lawyers call a lex specialist or something, is that possible?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30879	Now the honourable MP, Šefik Džaferović, will tell us if it is possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30880	Just for a little while, Chairman, I'm not going to answer the question whether it's possible or not, I'm just going to tell us that we need to stop, excuse the expression that I'm about to use, to fake each other. We need to talk about the essence. The law on gender equality is not precise in this respect. And we all know that together. It's perfectly clear that it says there: it can be according to the list, and it doesn't have to be. So basically what, you know when you say basically, so it keeps her there, keeps her here. We need to determine if we're going to do it on the list and then say yes, but then we'll make sanctions. We're going to study what this whole thing means and we're going to finish the story. So that's the point. Or we'll weigh from case to case. And the whole point of the discussion is that in the Law on Gender Equality, we said it was, it's totally even, and then we wrote it there fine in 2003, basically, or I don't know it, or how it says it there in the law, and then we kept driving this practice. I think it's much healthier seriously and responsible to approach this problem and to honestly say what's real in the Bosnian Herzegovina society and what's feasible, and not to hit the formula and say it's half and let's go, and then nothing will end up. Well, that's what it's gonna be, so here's what we got here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30881	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 17th point of the agenda, it's about: Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, with the Commission's opinion on Finance and Budget, Law No: 01-02-4-68/09, of 11. Nine. 2009 (first reading) Ambassador Jerko Lijanović delivered the law 9. 7. in a procedure requiring an emergency procedure to be considered. At the 58th session, held on 22. 7, a request for an emergency and shortened procedure was rejected, and the law went into regular procedure. The Constitutional Foundation Opinion of the Constitutional Commission delivered 27. 8. The Commission responsible for Finance and Budget 28. 8. In 2009, it reached its conclusion on the postponement of the Law Proposal until the submission of the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board of BiH. BiH Council of Ministers delivered Opinion 11. Nine. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion on 17. And she didn't accept the principles of the law. We also received the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration 15. Nine. Today we are discussing an opinion that is negative. If we adopt it, the law falls... and does not return to the Commission to deliver a new opinion. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a Resolution on the historical value and importance of the first session of ZAVNOBiH (November 25th 1943) for the statehood of BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović 139
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30884	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, here, I listened very carefully and followed the debate in which, just as I was preparing for the debate on item 18, I was not involved in the debate on national holidays because it would obviously be repeated, so here I am saving both your time and yours now. So, I think that the resolution on the historical value and importance of the first session of ZAVNOBiH, that is, on November 25th for the statehood of BiH, is one of the attempts to put the Earth's anti-fascist council and all that in the historical context meant in one historical stone in the mosaic where we live in these areas, our millennium, expensively inheriting our ancestors, and this is not a return to history, it's far more than any convention, and far more than any conference, it's primarily a glorious historical moment. And it's a completely undeniable historical moment and certainly far more important historical than political. Because if he were just one kind of one in a series of political events, then surely what came out of him and even this big debate today that we had on the other occasion would be completely different. Why, or why I'm giving myself the right to consider it more than a conference of the Earth's anti-fascist council. ... He's right. In fact, this home thus interprets democracy. So first of all, we have been here for a long, long, 20 years, trying to represent that we have a society based on the will of the people. I will now say one... I beg you to forgive me, I have the right to call on the people not to give myself away, because you do not give me the right to be equal and I do not give myself the right to be part of a flock. Namely, I see myself as a very proud citizen of BiH and very proud even of my ethnic, religious,... whatever you want, but I don't agree to the cake. Now, the current position is highly called upon and represents the will of the people as sacred or called upon by the will of the people, and with the held first session on November 25, 1943, it is the right and public declaration of the people's representatives, it was for that time the true will of the people, and it was in no way restricted only by the political leadership of a party that led the armed resistance but did not lead the ZAVNOBiH in the sense that it was decrypting it. Now, that's one of the first things that, of course, I'm sorry I'm not a historian and I love history and I read a lot of history, but here's the pretentious thing when people who aren't from the profession start to deal with it, but every historical moment at one point had a real cause for their creation, and then later evaluated, developed, that cause grew into something good or grew into something bad and it's very difficult from the context of a historical time to want to get it into this context and then interpret it because then it's politics for me. I'll try not to rush into that trap for a moment. What is a special sacred thing to me, and it has nothing to do with brotherhood and unity, brotherhood and unity is a decree – we are a biological community of people who have lived in these 140 spaces as a society for a whole millennium and what hurts me is that we are no longer one society. But I hope that our division in three or more separatist societies, even localities, will not overcome the tradition of living together for so many centuries. But it seems to me that it can't be forgotten, and it can't be released from the sight that OBVINOBIH was the basic tomb and call on which we and in this reanimated Bosnia, as I interpret the Dayton Bosnia, because it was not born on November 21st, but only one sick or killing, then the dying of the killing of Bosnia was resuscitated, based on the consistency of three peoples. And aren't the basic principles of ZAVNOBiH on which it rests... the basic provisions of our right to say that there are three constituent nations living in Bosnia. So, I agree with my colleagues, I won't repeat it, respect for that date today is very dissonant. Some are marking it, some are pretending to mark it, and in doing so, they're being denied a lot, some are ignoring it, but no one can deny it as a historical fact. And so it seems very important to me that we, as a legislative body of the BiH state, specify or reach some political consensus on what this historic one means to us... and what it is that political consensus on the interpretation of an undisputed historical date, regardless of what some have regrets about youth or ex-earth; some think that they have freed themselves from shackles, some think that they have just now acquired the right to believe. My parents have believed all their lives and have been very free believers, so I have not lived in an environment in which any manifestation of faith was forbidden. It was forbidden, though, to lie that you were an atheist and a member of a party that ruled at the same time a believer, but even that story was no longer a ban. But I would not want from that position that we are interpreting ZAVNOBiH, but what it is that brought BiH in a constitutional sense, a founding sense, in the end line, and in defining its borders to which I strongly call today. There's so much for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30885	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30886	Although I don't know what would be said today that's not said and I know it's challenging, obviously we have a consensus that we don't open all these questions anymore, but I expected someone from the SDA to replicate, but here I believe that I'm going to hit their thoughts even though it isn't. I know, I'm not going to go into this elaborate Mrs. Malić because I said the SNSD's position is that we're not going to participate in the falsification of history. And without us, she is what she is, an anti-fascist character on November 25th we will not question, but to end the will and, I saw that Mrs. Malić tried not to bring any AVNOJ and Yugoslavia into contact with ZAVNOBiH and she did it, in a long discussion she didn't mention it once, and those two are like a sickle without a hammer. If he could function and he couldn't, so it was one unity, a sickle and a hammer that was the unity of ZAVNOBiH and AVNOJ, and that's what I've been saying today and I didn't answer for it, I have no intention of opening it. But I wanted to, I expected these SDA guys to talk about how those '42 elections went. And in '43, since I understood Mrs. Malić that there were then democratic elections, and today this is not the will of the people, and she disowns this today's will of the people who are as it is, and I'm not particularly defending her, but that it was some. I remember that dead box in '46. About this '43. and '42. No one, at least in my neighborhood, talked about any 141 boxes, I remember the story. So what is this comparison of will, what were the democratic elections in '43, and what are these undemocratic now? I expected it again, I say, but the SDA has to follow this SDP policy now, so I know you're embarrassed to have it around these choices, but I've heard it. I think our choices are fair and regular now. That a lot of people don't like them, and that's democratic. But I mean, I agree we're having fair and regular elections. We are holding free and democratic elections at all, questioning it, and especially in the context that at that time, it was the best expression of democracy at that time, although I am not slowing down the liquids and not even disputed and that it couldn't have been different. So, I don't believe it was possible on any other basis to hold a session of either AVNOY or AVNOY, but on the one on which it was made. But I don't think it has anything to do with free and democratic elections. Because if they'd gone to the election that we're going to from ZVNOBiH, it wouldn't have come to Z, and not to talk about AVNOJ, it's as far as light years. So there was a boot, a righteous boot, and she was pushing like that until the '90s, for someone just, for someone she wasn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30887	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30888	I responded for a shorter one replica because it would be very dangerous to report for the discussion, as Chairman Živković knows very well that the motion for this resolution in the Rules of Procedure has the right to 20 minutes of exposure. Since I don't believe I'm going to make you this tired tonight, I'm really going to try to fit in in these three minutes. The essence of this story, therefore, is that, Mirjana we Malić it or not, we realize in ourselves that in the thousand-year history of BiH there are no events comparable to ZAVNOBiH, nor is there a historical parallel to ZAVNOBiH. There are no documents originally... similar or identical content that confirm BiH's individuality as is the case with ZAVNOBiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30889	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30890	Middle Ages Bosnia existed, Mr. Kalabić, but it could not leave one such bright witness.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30891	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30892	We also respect the Coolin Ban, but,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30893	microphone not included 142
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30894	It'd be good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30895	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30896	This whole story is because, as far as possible, we're going back to certain values of ZAVNOBiH today. DECLARATION OF THE INVESTIGATION, YOU CAN NEVER TALK ABOUT THE FIRST SESSION OF THE INVESTIGATION AND NOT IMPLEMENTING THE OTHER, AND THE THIRD SESSION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION. That declaration from the Sanh Most in '44. It's the Magna Carta libertatum for BiH. The declaration states under the number 1 equality of citizens and people, under the number 2nd freedom of consciousness and religion, under the number 3rd personal and property security. Generally active and passive election law and secret voting. It's absurd that in '43. People have promoted active and passive law, and today half the people in the country have no passive right. They also promoted the ban on the work of all fascist parties, movements. We also know what the situation is in BiH today. So, OBVIOUSLY, it's not just the past, it's a permanent inspiration, it's a high-ranking ladder. It would not be true if someone had now said that all the things declared to be OBVIOUS would have been consistently and implemented throughout that period, but it would be good if we today had such high goals to pursue, and that these goals were fundamentally humanistic and noble.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30897	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30898	Here's my colleague Kalabić. He's always worried about the SDA. There are some strange versions coming up. I, who have never been to a Communist party, have taken care of ZAVNOBiH, and former communist Kalabić gives it up. It's weird inversions. And when Mr. Kalabić says these choices of ours, I don't know what he means, does he mean when he was in the Communist party or now he's in this other one?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30899	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30900	Let him take off this Chetnic. It's easier for me to do this communist thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30901	Wait a minute, please. 143
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30902	Just for a little while, in the spirit of what Izetbegović said. So, at this session of ZAVNOBiH, this is a key question: who at the ZAVNOBiH meeting was leading the main word? Who's there, who's been running that session? Are you anti-fascists or communists? The anti-fascists, of course, kept the main word, because the communists kept the main word clear from the fact that after the meeting of ZAVNOBiH, after the release, when the communists came to power, they said when they needed this state – both Croatian and Serbian, and Muslim – after that they did not need Muslims, and then for a long time the communists made various decisions without Bošnjak, then called Muslims. So, at that AVNOJ meeting, it is important to say that the main word at the meeting was led by anti-fascists, not communists.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30903	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30904	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just asking Mr Bećirović, whom I respect, what are we going to get with this? What are we going to get by adopting this resolution? History is written as written. History was written by the winners. My history taught me that I Tito Titus more than my father and mother, so I didn't listen to all this, or else I would have come into conflict with my own parents, who weren't against Tito for good luck; yes, the late grandfather, he didn't love him. Now, for so many years -- he wasn't a Chetnik either, don't think right away that he didn't love him – so many years after Dejton, after the history that was written, and we can't change it or write another one, wrote to the winners, and now I have to bring some resolution and say if it was all regular in Mrkonjic City, and there it is, in the very place where it was held. No one's ever thought of doing that. Well, we can't put all the historical facts in context of what was right for someone. Let's just say, for me, the greatest historical fact is that I was born. It's the greatest historical fact. And now I'm going to make a declaration here that you're going to adopt what I was born to be, and that's a good one. So, Mr. Bećirović, I understand your intentions, they are not bad, especially Professor Malić's explanation. But do you know that in the RS, no one knows when he was OBVIH, they don't teach kids at school, they don't care, that history is erased. And what you're pushing me through this declaration again, the resolution, and I don't know what to adopt tomorrow when all the high school students and the palace's basics will boycott if I accept it. I don't think so. Don't write what's written in history, it's not even in books anymore, and that's two or three rows each. It was one of them. Which one?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30905	Wait a minute, just a minute, please. 144
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30906	Let me finish. So I'm asking you this is not the time to return the historical facts when this country is gone. No Yugoslavia. There's no AVNOY. _________(?) He's got Bosnia. I didn't tell Bosnia. I say there is no Yugoslavia. Did you hear me say no Bosnia? I never said Bosnia first, I say Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30908	Don't get settled, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30909	And you're cutting it short on Bosnia, I guess you want separatism, you think that Herzegovina's separated, I don't think. So please don't return anything that won't get support. I assure you, you weren't, 90% of the people in the RS aren't interested in ZAVEBiH, and let's just say 90% of the councilmen were Srbin. They don't care about that. And now we adopt it, God Bog, and we come, and these down here don't know what they're going to pay for, and that's what they're going to do. It didn't come to my mind, it fell to Denis, but here's not gonna get any support as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30910	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30911	Here, very briefly, I did get one satisfaction today and my request to Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, because I believe that he has an impact on the federal media, I am ready to communicate with them to Comrade Kalabić, since by yesterday he was a Chetnik and today I am free of this anthem and I am ready to continue communicating with my comrade, and I will somehow deal with it because I prefer this qualification. I was young at the time, and my party cell voiced against these SDP arrests, your co-workers back then, but they were powerless when they were running that policy at some time, but it was a little support, so I'm ready for this communication and I hope that on those media they would stop this Chetnician some past that they didn't have, which they found, and I think you decided today and definitely put an end to it. 145
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30912	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to the 19th item of the agenda: Ad. 19. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act (first reading) At the 63rd session, held on 4. 11, he didn't get the entity majority. You've reached 11. 11. The college didn't achieve consent. We will vote today in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Moving to point 20. Ad. 20. Joint Commission Report of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Free Zones Act in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30917	I only have two sentences to say. So, the Administrative Commission has discussed this issue on several occasions before this initiative, and I must say that we have made certain decisions in these matters, so that we have decided that many fees for the work of MPs and delegates are being paid when it comes to coming to committees, etc. That we've put an end to it. We have discussed, of course, many initiatives when it comes to many requirements such as the proposings' requirements when it comes to the formation of a variety of ad hoc commissions, knowing that the results of these ad hoc commissions will be without any benefit, negative, but none of the proposings for the formation of these ad hoc commissions, nor members of the ad hoc commissions, have ever given up fees for working on these commissions, so there have been many situations that have also been in these various ad hoc commissions, however, unfortunately they have not given up fees for working in ad hoc commissions etc. We delivered our one opinion, and it's important to keep this in mind. So this committee has been discussing these many things. We felt that many of these fees were unnecessary. However, of course, we were unable to achieve agreement within this commission. For these reasons, we have come into such a situation to discuss Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30918	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30919	It has become a bit degutant to talk about this subject, especially now that there are about ten months left until the end of this term. What we can do is that each individual if they want to separate some funds, they can do it. SDP's late president, Jozo Križanović, showed it in action. He didn't speak publicly at all, but he directed some of the funds to 147 aid the House for Unsupervised Children. The family invited even instead of getting married to invest in these purposes. And, colleague Kadriću, I'm not the only one, there are probably more people who do this, but here I want to tell you that there is a Parliamentary Assembly Accounting in written form a form where I personally gave up all these receipts based on journals and on permanent and temporary commissions, but to be precise, you have permanently abolished these after a certain time. Now that there is no propaganda where certain MPs give, I know that I am not the only part of the funds given for humanitarian purposes, but just for the sake of fact and truth, it is not true that all MPs do not deny these receipts.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30920	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 23. Ad. 23. A statement on Parliamentarian Branko Dokić's initiative "to present a written and oral report on relations with neighbouring countries to the BiH House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH" Ambassador Branko Dokić submitted the initiative at the 60th session of the House, held 16.9. At the 108th session, the House College appointed the Commission for Foreign Affairs. The committee in charge delivered Opinion 3. 11 and supported the above-mentioned initiative. I'm opening a debate on the Initiative. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić is coming in right now, is it about your Initiative, are you in the mood to report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30922	Well, Mr. Chairman, I don't think there's really any need to discuss this. If, when everyone accepts then, and we will discuss the Initiative, we will discuss the Bureau's material when it comes to the agenda. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30923	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 148 Point 24. Ad. 24. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the entry into the agenda of the House of Commons "Advising the conclusions on the reduction of salaries and other material rights of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH" (proposed by Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović of the 63rd session of the House) Proposed by Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović at 63rd session, held on 4. 11, he didn't get the entity majority. You've reached 11. 11. The college didn't achieve consent. Today we will vote in the second round on the proposal to include in the agenda of this point. Moving to point 25. Ad. 25. Amendments to the Committees of the House of Representatives and Joint Committees of both: (a) Vesna Šain is appointed to the Committee on Gender Equality and the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, instead of Jovan Todorović, whose term of office ended because of death, (b) Ljiljana Milašin is appointed to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, instead of Hadži Jovan Mitrović, whose mandate ended with the decision of the Central Election Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30928	I believe that patience is at an end, but if you wish, I can submit today's report on the state of the flu in BiH and the measures that have been taken so far and the measures that have been planned. If this parliament does not consider it necessary at this time, there is no problem. Since I've had time since the first moment of this initiative that this conclusion... will be on the agenda, I'm in that sense and prepared that report, well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30929	Thank you, Minister. This information is important to us. I'm asking Dom if you're interested in us now adopting our conclusion and we're also hearing this report, or we'll postpone it for the next session. So I ask Parliament who is in favour of adopting this conclusion and now we listen to what the minister has to say as a part of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 18 votes, "against" five, "abstained" were not. Enough entity majority. I figure we can do this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30930	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30931	I know, but... 150
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30932	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30933	Please, we voted to do it now. We can run this as a part of the agenda again, but it's important that we know at this point in the short lines what it's about. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30934	Thank you very much. Since it's going to be obvious time to do it again, I'm just going to brief you on the short version. The first case of pandemic flu caused by the H1N1 virus in BiH was confirmed on June 30th 2009. The first pandemic flu deaths caused by this virus were confirmed by 16. 11. 2009 final test at the University of Sarajevo Clinical Centre. -Finished by 7. On the 12th, therefore, in BiH today, a total of 759 patients with pandemic influenza caused by H1N1 virus were confirmed in RS 280, the Federation of BiH 444, Brcko District 35 cases, seven of which were fatal cases, in the Federation of Four Cases, in the RS three cases. The RS government has made a decision to obtain 350,000 doses of vaccines against pandemic influenza caused by H1N1 virus and an additional 30,000 doses of antiviral medicines. The RS Ministry of Health and Social Protection is expecting an additional 10,000 doses of antiviral medicines this month. In the Federation of BiH, a contract was signed to obtain 30,000 intervention doses of vaccines against pandemic flu caused by the H1N1 virus for which the funds were granted in the Budget of the Federation government. The federal health ministry has made a request to the Federation government to obtain an additional 150,000 doses of vaccines. In May 2009, 800 doses of Tamiflu were obtained in Brcko District, which is estimated to represent a sufficient quantity. Certain amounts of vaccines required for Brcko District territory will be provided by entity health ministries. The delivery of vaccines intended for vaccination against pandemic influenza caused by the H1N1 virus for BiH begins in January 2010 and will take place succesively. At the level of entities and Brcko District in line with the World Health Organization's recommendations, plans were drawn up to vaccinate the population with the priority of risk groups. The purchase of 20,000 is under way through the donation of the World Health Organization. In negotiations with them, we have just received approval, i.e. they have made a decision to donate 20,000 doses of Tamiflu to BiH. When it comes to measures taken, the first cases of pandemic influenza caused by the H1N1 flu virus in the world, the territory of BiH have taken the following preventive measures: work and coordination groups have been formed to monitor, assess and take the necessary measures to combat pandemic flu, which maintain regular meetings and follow the epidemiological situation in BiH; after the announcement of the pandemic caused by this virus in BiH has raised the degree of preparation of health care services, the recommended regular maintenance of meetings and regular contacts with committees and formed preparatory teams; the additional intensive coordination between the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the competent entity's facilities are carried out; the active health and health care and other care services of the Brcko District; the ongoing preparedness plans in the health institutions are discussed in the case of the pandemic (the link between the BiH Ministry of Health and the health care facilities, the health care facilities, the active health care facilities, the health care facilities of the health care facilities, the care of the health care and the health care of the health care of the team and other than the health care services of the team, the health care of the health care and other. So, in short, this would be information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30935	Thank you, Minister. Before anyone reports to the debate, I have come up with a conclusion that could be an integral part of this agenda: 'The Council of Ministers and Resorship Ministry is in charge that, if necessary and more frequently, reports the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the state and activities undertaken in BiH on the prevention and fight against influenza A virus, H1N1, with all necessary contents and data to inform the House.' That would be some continued information about what the minister said. If it's necessary or if, God Bog, a larger pandemic happens, we're interested in getting more information about it. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30936	Although most of us here are not experts in the field of health, it is clear from this statement by Minister Nović that the situation in BiH is not at all harmless and the fact is that from day to day is increasingly complicated. We already have seven deaths in BiH, a large number of quite ill people, and many are unfortunately forecasting that the number will be higher. No matter how much I appreciate Mr. Nović's abilities and capabilities, it is difficult for a man to unite both the issue and the sport and the public holidays, here is the question from the field of health, etc. If we as a state and this Parliament were to think about how other European countries are thinking, I think that today we would adopt one conclusion that, because of this situation, the BiH House of Representatives would conclude and, I stress, the situation is becoming a little bit more and more extraordinary: 152 'We owe the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare within 30 days the amendments to the BiH Constitution, which puts the issue of health in the divided jurisdiction of the state and entities, on the basis of which they would form the Ministry of Health and as all other countries of the EU and the countries of Europe, which would have one address that would be much more systematic and with more coordination doing all that BiH probably expects." I suppose what the outcome of this conclusion will be, but I feel obliged to suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30937	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30938	Well, if it's Denis, it's a little too much. So your boss and you keep refusing here are the proposed amendments that suggest even the world's leading forces, behind it. Among other things, these amendments include what you suggested. There is a need to bring BiH in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, etc., etc. So give it a little bit, don't take every opportunity to present some initiatives, suggestions that are in collegiate with what you advocate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30939	Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30940	No, I don't mind... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30941	Wait a minute, please, just a little patience, we're still a little short, just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30942	... I have nothing against the initiative launched by Mr Denis Bećirović, but I would like to remind him that HDZ 1990 has officially presented the proposal within the framework of negotiations, so initiatives that before the other parliamentary parties were launched would be good to welcome and call on them and then. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30943	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, a reply to the replica. Here you go. 153
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30944	I understand that we are a little tired, however, of a colleague, Dokić, at least it should be so clear that the issue of full constitutional changes and one issue that makes people die in BiH is not the same. So, where luck is that the SDP proposal is accepted, so that at the level of the BiH state, what the SDP was saying, we have the April Plus package. However, if I don't open another topic, unfortunately we're not even close to that April package anymore, and the question is, is, is there going to be any change? And so people don't still die, etc. And in order not to be the only country that doesn't have the only address on this issue, I stressed that this is an emergency and that it would be good to at least settle this matter urgently before one day happy people in this country welcome a whole package of constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30945	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30946	Thank you very much. I used the replica button first of all to really thank Minister Nović for his prompt response, even on the proposal for a conclusion. This is information that binds us all far more than media reports do. I think denisov (although I have no intention of being anyone's lawyer) initiative is actually about the seriousness of the situation, not about taking advantage of a serious situation to politicise. And I'm quite sure that from this debate that is already a little bit taken and funny, teasing tones will come up with what; that now we give the minister a chance again he would say that the de facto within his ministry has already been made, and without our permission, a small headquarters, a small ministry that coordinates all the levels responsible for it, because I won't believe it, because I can't believe that we could be in a situation that because of our dissuaded jurisdiction at different levels of government we allow the care of those who are allegedly competent, who are not responsible or have the capacity to carry on, to start people dying more than the mortality of a given disease. So, Minister, you have full support, I think, all of us here that even when you don't have the authority to coordinate and not to fail as humans and as a state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30947	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30948	Well, I'd like to say to an esteemed colleague, first of all, that his initiative, so the first initiative is quite legitimate, and I think he gave it in a certain sense, I appreciate that, so I give the effect and thank the Minister for this information. 154 One thing I think, I do not believe, is that it is not sufficiently familiar with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that there is a Health Department, which is absolutely in full capacity to carry out activities relating to the obligation of BiH to all epidemics, in line with the World Health Organisation's lists. What I think is very important is that the Council of Ministers has a certain position, that this Parliament strengthens this task and responsibility and that the competent ministries must implement this activity daily in accordance with the law. As far as these other initiatives are concerned, they can certainly have, but I think the much greater effect has our relationship to preventing the consequences and especially the fatal outcome of the virus... or death caused by the H1N1 flu virus. I think it's of particular importance that we act in this sense. Whether we're going to do it one way or another, we don't have time to talk about it, when it's any of the questions, it's not a problem at all. But I don't think it's a question of today's initiative at all. It has absolutely nothing to do with this conclusion with today's initiative. On the contrary, it would slow the BiH authorities' relationship to this, if we were to wait now after some amendments have been adopted. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30949	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30950	As far as jurisdiction is concerned, life unfortunately teaches us that this will not only be entityal, it will not be state jurisdiction, this will not be the EU's jurisdiction either, this is the world's jurisdiction. And we will have to fit into these global flows, so at least respect EU directives, World Health Organisations, etc. So that's not what we're getting at right now. I wanted to say it like this. We had a point today to ask for information from the Council of Ministers. The minister prepared himself, he had time to submit that information to us, and thank him. I suggest, at the end of the working day, it is now that the Minister gives this to Parliament officially, there are also things that have not been read, that it is delivered to all of us here. And that we, before your conclusion, can immediately adopt your conclusion that you suggested, but 16 that we have this as the first item of the agenda. Let's talk about it on the basis of this information. Only then will we give real meaning to this subject in this way. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30951	Thank you. Please put that proposal into some conclusion so I can put it to the vote. I know, but I have to put it to a vote, we've opened up a point, there's one conclusion, and there's no problem putting it to the vote. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 155
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30952	Well, I'm not going to give up, but... I was just about to support your discussion. And if I give up, I won't get that chance since here's the swine flu we used to somehow get our hands on the constitutional debate again. And there's no arsenal we haven't used, even through swine flu, but good and that's legitimate. I don't have this proposal to conclude Mr Bećirović, or the SDP, I didn't understand until the end of whether the activities of suppressing swine flu should stop until this is formed or..., I don't have a written conclusion, I didn't understand, so that it would stop, if I understood the matter well. But part of it, really, here's a little while ago, Džaferović said it was a serious thing, I mean, here's my colleague Malić, and I totally agree that I think people are doing their job seriously, and I don't think anyone here is doing anything that would allude to what we've been doing. I'd love to, I've reported for a reason, say, seven, seven death cases a pair of ears and I can't help but react, and in order to see those reports and sometimes confuse me, I have to be honest. If it's a death case and when you get incomplete information in public, although I find it very embarrassing to hear afterwards that a man has suffered from some five, six serious diseases, and in the first report, it seems shocking, that a man has died or died of swine flu. And then you get the information that she took on someone else and now I'm not and I have no right to talk about it from a medical point of view, but it seems confusing to me. And I'd like to get through these reports... to prevent these possible, if at all possible, speculation... to make it clear to us and that we have this situation. I took the opportunity to say that, because it really confuses me and I'm not going to open any other stuff right now, but I think through this information we'll have a chance to deal with when we get, in the next report, all that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30953	Thank you. Dear Member of the Sead Jamakosmanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30954	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I appear as directly involved in the H1N1 influenza control plant in Tuzla Canton, and I want to say, for the sake of the public above all, and the situation in which there is quite a panic over the flu and the state it is in, that the Council of Ministers in early autumn did guidelines for all levels of health care, and that's good. I congratulate them on the behavior of all healthcare subjects in relation to the threatening influenza pandemic H1N1. Accordingly, depending on the level of health care, everyone reacted in the way and against the possibilities they had, and I think it is responsible to tell their husband, at least for a part of the territory covered by the UKC in Tuzla that the situation is under control. If I can make a parallel, and hopefully I'll be properly understood, in this country every year more people die than tuberculosis, so no one really cares about it, dies much more than cancer, so it doesn't worry much about it, and this is something that has happened to us, and we need to discuss this situation at the next session much, much more thoroughly and more intensively to be able to define ourselves further. What I'm looking forward to as a professional at this point is that we've got state guidelines and they're being respected. Thank you very much. 156
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30955	I thank the distinguished representative Jamakosmanović. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30956	I thank my colleague for his calming words. It is simply an important question that can cause further anxiety for our citizens that we should put in a way that is appropriate to him. To cleanse him of political, but also other opportunities to give him more importance than he really attaches or what he really deserves and to further upset our citizens in BiH in this way. By putting this as the first item of the agenda at the next session, we would exactly do so to further upset our citizens, and the way we have done it today and received information, as Minister Nović said, as his colleague said, directly from the field, we have made a contribution to this and to the conclusion that if we adopt this activity and, if necessary, that our ministry, or the Council of Ministers, if it says that the situation is going up, put it on the agenda or let us know that we put it immediately on the agenda. There is no need for us to further upset BiH citizens on our part. If there's any need, I'm here to put on a special session. But don't make it on your part, this is enough for us to get information, enough to convince that the H1N1 epidemic in BiH is under control. And don't bother the citizens further. I am in favour of following her, of being present and, if necessary, responding immediately and urgently, not of giving the meaning she is currently, and all of the opportunities in BiH are working and that we have assurances from our institutions, that this will not go into progress. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30957	Well, you know what, Mr. Chairman, from now on, when I want something to go through, I'm going to suggest it counter, because whatever I suggest you do, you go out and then you concentrate on it. Now I'll do the opposite. I mean, it's totally unnecessary. You really don't need this. So you see yourself that television every night, media, newspapers talk about it as top theme number one. I don't understand it, I just see that there's a problem and I want to hear, here, and what Professor Jamakosmanović said now, and this is information. And I just want to hear it in that first session, nothing more, believe me. And if I'd known you were going to react like that, I wouldn't have made that suggestion at all, because I feel like you're reacting, and that's what Šefik suggested, so let me be the opposite. I'm sorry it's like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30958	I don't need to, and I'm not going to comment on this. Is there anyone else to discuss? Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go. 157
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30959	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I actually just wanted to say that these deaths that occurred, these seven deaths, that they were all in some way in high-risk patients. Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't want this to be seen as a lecture, but high-risk groups are groups of patients who already suffer from some or some severe chronic illnesses, or immune system disorders, or some defects innate, or the elderly population, or people who have a problematic immune system at a given time, and that actually the H1N1 infection intervened with this existing poor psychophysical capacity and immune response of the organism and, in that way, I wanted to say that all the patients who died, especially these children, who died, were actually children who had some previous problems and who were, in some way, predisposed to complications of the type of flight outcome after certain infections. This time it was an H1N1 infection, but it could have been an infection with some bacteria or a seasonal flu infection, etc. There, it was more like this one of my little attempts to help, and I would really like to thank Minister Nović because I think this was a very correct report and this team, which is together with Minister Nović at the head of entity ministries. The only thing I'd still like in that new report of ours to get is how many cantons have come up with plans to get the vaccine, because I think we're missing a number of these vaccines from the cantonal ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30960	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 28. Ad. 28. Giving consent to ratification: a) Agreement of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Kingdom of Denmark on Development Co-operation You have received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission on this agreement. The Commission has given a positive opinion and proposes to the House to give consent to its ratification. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. At 7:00, it's a vote. 158 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30964	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30965	I'm sorry, we're voting on the amandman of MP Denis Bećirović. Is there any need for me to read the amendment? "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH in Article 7 (1) point (b) is amended and reads as follows: If it is given a security measure to prohibit the making of calls, activities or duties." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" seven votes, "against" eight, "abstained" 13. The amendment didn't receive support. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 16 votes, "against" one, "abstained" 11. Insufficient entity majority. Parliament will be later introduced. Moving to point 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in BiH – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, with 163 Report from the Commission on Transport and Communications (second reading). I note that the Commission's report on traffic was negative. We vote on the Commission's report on traffic and communication. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20 votes, "against" eight, there was no "abstained". Insufficient entity support. We have no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 19 votes, "against" eight, there was no "abstained". Insufficient votes "against". I find that we have adopted the Report of the Commission on Transport and Communications and that this law has failed. Moving to point 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27 votes, "against" one, "abstained" was not. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. I am putting the vote on the SNSD's proposal for a conclusion to open a public debate on this law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. "For" 10 votes, "against" 14, "abstained" four. He did not receive support for this request for a public hearing. Moving to point 13. Proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH and the working days – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 11 votes, "against" 16, "abstained" one. I find that the proposal for a holiday law has not received the support of Parliament. We move to a vote on the Commission's opinion on traffic, point 14, point 15 and point 16. We will vote on all the opinions of the Transport Commission and then on this conclusion of the honourable MP, Mehmed Suljkanović. 164 Please prepare for the vote on the Commission's opinion on traffic in relation to this law referred to in point 14. You can vote now! "For" 10 votes, "against" 18, there was no "abstained". I find that the Commission's opinion has not been accepted and this law returns to the Commission again for consideration. Of course, guidance will be given if the conclusion is adopted. We vote on the same principle for point 15 of opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 13 votes, "against" 14, "sustained" one. This opinion has not been given a positive opinion either, so this law returns to the Commission. And we vote on the Commission's opinion, point 16. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" nine votes, "against" 18, "abstained" one. I also find that this law has been returned to the Commission. The conclusion of MP Mehmed Suljkanović. Is there any need for me to read this conclusion? Have you all read it? I put to the vote the conclusion of MP Mehmed Suljkanović. You can vote now! "For" 26, "against" was not, "sustained" two. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Moving to point 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in BiH – Proposer: MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, with the Commission's opinion on Finance and Budgets (first reading). We also vote on the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission and on the Excise Act in BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" two, "sustained" one. I find that we have adopted the Commission's opinion and thus this law has fallen. Moving to point 18. Proposal for a Resolution on the historical value and importance of the first session of ZAVNOBiH (November 25th 1943) for the statehood of BiH – Proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović. We're voting on Resolution. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 17 votes, "against" eight, "abstained" three. 165 Insufficient entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. Parliament will be informed. [[Common discussion]] I will try to see with those who voted "against" the possibility of a compromise. Point 19. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act (first reading). So we're voting on the Commission's report. The college didn't achieve consent. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22 votes, "against" five, "sustained" one. Insufficient votes "against". So, adopted in the first reading of the missing persons bill. Point 20. The Joint Commission's report on achieving agreement on the identical text of the Free Zones Act in BiH. We vote on the Commission's report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27 votes, "against" was not, one vote "abstained". I find that we have adopted the Joint Commission Report. Moving to point 21. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! There were no "for" 28 votes, "against" and "abstained" votes. I find that we have adopted the Joint Commission Report. Moving to point 22. A statement on the SDP MPs' SDP initiative, which reads 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs to comply with Article 58. The Rules of Procedure shall review the eligibility and sustainability of existing salary levels and the compensation of the material costs of all employees in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and in particular MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." 166 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 17 votes, "against" seven, "abstained" three. Insufficient entity majority. There was no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 18, "against" seven, "abstained" three. Insufficient votes "against". I understand we adopted the Initiative. We're going to vote on item 23. A statement on Parliamentarian Branko Dokić's initiative "to present a written and oral report on relations with neighbouring countries to the BiH House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH". Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27 votes, "against" one, "abstained" was not. I understand we adopted the Initiative. Point 24. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the entry into the agenda of the House of Dots 'A consideration of the conclusions on the reduction of salaries and other material rights of MPs and delegates in the PSBiH (proposed by Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović from the 63rd session of the House). We're voting on the report, no consent has been reached. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! The second round is voting on the College Report. "For" 17 votes, "against" nine, "abstained" two. Insufficient entity votes "against". I understand we adopted the Initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30967	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30968	Here you go. Business, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30969	I'm sorry. For item 19, or to repeat the vote or to realize that Mrs. Šain and I voted "against". 167
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30970	Are you agreeing to find that they voted "against" doesn't change anything in the result, just to vote? Please let this be entered into this record. So point 19 was voted "against" both Mr. Kalabić and Mrs. Šain. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please don't repeat without need. It was established in the record. Moving to point 25. Changes in the membership committees of the House of Representatives and joint committees of both: (a) Vesna Šain is appointed to the Committee on Gender Equality and the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, instead of Jovan Todorović, whose term of office ended because of death, (b) Ljiljana Milašin is appointed to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, instead of Hadži Jovan Mitrović, whose mandate ended with the decision of the Central Election Commission. Please prepare to vote under a) and b). You can vote now! "For" 25 votes, "against" one, "abstained" two. I find that we have adopted changes in the membership of the committee. We vote on point 26. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on an identical text on external trade traffic control and services of strategic importance for BiH's security. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24 votes, "against" one, "sustained" three. I understand that we have voted members of the Joint Committee for Harmonization. Point 27. Advocating the conclusion on the submission of the Council of Ministers' information on the state and activities undertaken in BiH on preventive protection and the fight against influenza A virus, H1N1 (proposed by Ambassador Rifat Dolić). We're voting on the conclusion I suggested. Is there any need for me to read it again? Thank you. Prepare to vote. 168 you can vote, now! There were no "for" 28 votes, "against" and "abstained" votes. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. We have a request from Ambassador-in-Office Šefik Džaferović that for the next session of the House of Representatives, as point 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30972	You don't have to... any, just to be in the session...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-02-0.u30973	to be placed on the agenda of the next session under the heading 'Information of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the state and activities undertaken in BiH on preventive protection and fight against influenza AH1N1.' Is that okay? Well, I mean, this is the agenda point proposed, and this information will probably be written for that agenda point. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 17 votes, "against" eight, "abstained" three. Youbiti be notified of this later. Moving to point 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Kingdom of Denmark's Agreement on Development Co-operation. We're voting on granting consent. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 27 votes, "against" and "abstained" were not. I understand we've given consent. I note that the 66th House session is scheduled for 16. 12. In 2009. I thank you for your cooperation and for your support today. I'm closing the 64th session of the House. The seat is closed at 7:45.
