ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27414	Please take your seats, we're late. Gentlemen, ministers, take your seats. Slavko! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 56th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I once again welcome you all together and realize that we have a quorum for the work of today's 56th session. It is present, at least here on the screen shows me 34 MPs. Those who have not put the cards, please place them in the right place, and it is expected that we will receive more participants during the session. The absence from the session was justified by Mr. Jovan Todorović for his illness, Milica Marković, Bakir Izetbegović, Azra Hadžiahmetović – due to his departure to Strasbourg, and Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27415	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27416	That is understood, Slavko, so I didn't even mention that Mr. Lazar Prodanović announced a delay as Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27417	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27418	Can I, Mr. Jovičić? Thank you. So, as usual, this time we've had some changes and additions to the agenda compared to the first version we've sent you which, hopefully, you understand. The deadlines are an appointment, etc., and in the meantime the commissions are working and business conditions are being met for the agenda. 2 So, two points of the agenda were removed: The draft anti-mining act in BiH (it is the first reading, and at the request of the competent commission which requested the extension of the deadline and the College met the request); and... so the 2nd item of the agenda that was planned and removed, therefore, the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2008, because the Constitutional Commission also postponed the examination of this report, on the request of the High Court and Prosecutors' Council for the inability of their representatives to attend. I think it's justifiable. There have been conditions for placing new five points of the agenda compared to the call you received first. So: The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Proposal for a Decision amending the Council of National Minorities of BiH - Proposer: Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, We also have a proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities. The committee is also proposed. We have further: Considering Mr. Sefer Halilović's resignation as a member of the Joint Commission on Human Rights... In this sense, point 14, the earlier point 14 has been reformed so that we go first to: Consider Mr. Milorad Živković's resignation and appointment, instead, Slavko Jovičić's in the Research Commission to determine the spending of donor funds. So, at this point are these personnel issues. We continue to include it in the agenda: the appointment of three members of the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Border Police of BiH. I also suggest that we put the agenda item today: Confirming the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers on the appointment of Mr Rude Vidović as Minister of Communications and Transport, as business conditions have been achieved. Namely, you have received this report from the committee responsible, and we now have the conditions to consider this item of the agenda. Of course, about this, Dom needs to make a statement. So that's what I had as a need to inform you about this agenda for today's session. So I suggested another agenda point except for these notes and explanations that I dictated into the microphone. I'm opening a debate now. There's no argument. I apologize, Denis Bećirović. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27419	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected guests and media representatives! On the basis of Article 65 of the Statute (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I submit the following proposal to supplement the agenda of the 56th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, I propose that we address the point as follows: 'A consideration of the conclusions on the harmfulness of the anti-Dayton one-sided action of the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadić in the state of BiH'. In addition to the proposal to include the mentioned item in the agenda, I also submit a proposal for conclusions as a discussion material on this agenda point. Given the importance of this issue for the future of BiH, I propose that this be one of the first four points of the agenda. I think it is very important today that BiH's highest legislative body give its view that it is unacceptable and very dangerous that the president of the Republic of Serbia in Banja Luka, so two days ago, on June 22nd, put out what he said, the official position of the Republic of Serbia not to accept the decision of High Representative Valentin Inck, who annulled, as we know, the anti-constitutional conclusions of the National Assembly of the RS. Also, we would do well to note today the incorrect claim and the extreme misrepresentation of the Dayton Agreement, and as the president of the Republic of Serbia also said in Banja Luka, where he stated that Serbia is also a signator of the Dayton Agreement and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH. I think it is very important today to say that BiH's sovereignty and territorial integrity have nothing to do with the Dayton Agreement since they were elected before it, and in particular are not linked to the political will of the representatives of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I propose that we put this on the agenda today and, as the highest legislative body, give our position very clearly in this, in my opinion, adverse phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27420	Please deliver me in writing. Replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27421	Mr. Chairman, it may not be a good call right away, as I have answered, because it is likely that emotions will be introduced into this kind of reaction, and at the very least it is necessary in this home to enter emotions. But what counterpart Bećirović suggested was the least said inconclusive. Here, let's even assume that there are elements in these things, which is why he suggests a point of the agenda, it can't be done like this. This is affecting deeply the relations between the two states, and in particular an argument in which it even challenges the right of the president of the neighbouring country, the state that is a signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement, even challenges the right to say that it supports territorial sovereignty, etc., as Mr Bećirović states. 4 So I'm saying that this is really extremely unserious, and I could use a much, much larger word. In particular, this degree of indifference is so much higher when we know it comes from a party whose member of the Bureau, from which he threatened, literally threatened the neighbouring country, and that the party has not been fenced in any way by threats. Because if from one country to a prime minister or president of another state is said to be given by fingers and nose, then who knows the elemental alphabet of diplomacy, knows that it's a message that it's going to get, you know, what I'd like never to happen in these places again. So, once again I say, even if there are elements in this, come two days later with a pamphlet message that's meant for just, I don't know who, I'm not going to tell right now -- it's unserious. If there are at all elements to discuss this, that is why materials must be delivered, that is what all those who will discuss and decide on this issue must meet. This kind of thing and this kind of proposal in Parliament only brings us back to the past, and they are certainly no part of what the party from which this proposal comes often advocates here and promotes, here, for European integrations etc., etc. I don't want to anymore, because you often have to stick to those folk sayings 'that every unspeakable, gold', but when a lot of those who are ugly are thrown out, then you have to act in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27422	I have three applications for discussion. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27423	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, ministers, you see, I don't think that this proposal by Mr Bećirović is a serious proposal and perhaps we shouldn't have opened it, and I agree with Mr Dokić, perhaps we shouldn't have opened this kind of story because, you see, one serious party should not in any way produce tensions with neighbouring countries, and perhaps this best shows us the case today of Croatia and Slovenia and preventing Croatia from achieving one of its most important goals, which is joining or approaching or signing with the EU. We do not need the problem with neighbouring countries, neither Serbia nor Croatia. We are not in this situation today, and we will not be safe tomorrow – that we have the right to this risk. Be careful, for a long time, this is the kind of story Mr Bećirović was talking about today. I have a feeling people Marks make Marx a nationalist. So, they and from the statements that I thought were in favour of BiH, I should now seem to think that they are contrary to BiH's interests, here I thought it was precisely in the interest of BiH, especially the statements that speak of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of BiH, and which, in my view, is one step forward in the relations of these two countries. Of course, there is no need to forget the right part of this country, or RS, of special ties and relations with Serbia which, we know, can manifest, so one of the ways of the event is this visit by Mr Tadić. 5 So I would not continue to give seriousness to this initiative. I consider it in the context of so far's statements, if I may at all be called by the statements of a member of the presidency, Mr Komšić. I don't think that either, and especially not serious statements and, I'm afraid, that giving too much seriousness to this initiative would actually create an impression that there really is a problem. Of course, I appreciate that SDP did this before the Party for BiH, since Mr Haris Silajdžić made such a statement, so here are the people who rushed, means they are the first to make the matter public and try to open the debate. I, of course, won't support...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27424	Here, I haven't intervened or, to put it that way, warned, here's what I'm saying, so we're discussing the agenda. The man suggested the agenda point, you all have the right to think about what you want, but don't get into the scale of things, we'll decide, the man suggested. Here, now we have two replicas. Remzija Kadrić. Now we're all gonna show what we think about this, and we're probably gonna... discuss what Denis initiated. So now we have Remzi Kadrić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27425	I have a replica of both Novaković and Dokić. So this initiative is too serious, so it's not serious. She is too serious and I suggest Denis Bećirović to turn this into a particular initiative to really talk about this seriously, and we can talk at one of the next sessions. So it does not belong to this visit in the domain of special ties between Serbia and RS. Dokić exited the BiH Constitution. And, Dokić, therefore, requires the elemental alphabet of diplomacy, she also ordered Boris Tadić... to come to Sarajevo to the BiH presidency and that the presidency ask and discuss with them these problems and these cases when it comes to clarifications and these conclusions and relations with the international community and the OHR. So this requires a basic alphabet of diplomacy, and it does not require the elemental alphabet of diplomacy to go to Banja Luka and discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27426	Jozo Križanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not about the replica, it's about one business intervention. Like you did at the beginning...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27428	If it's not a replica... it means business intervention. So, business intervention. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27429	I think this is about a legitimate initiative to determine the House. We could discuss this today, before we adopt the agenda, all day long on this subject. I would ask that the debate be terminated and that we make sure that this can be entered into the agenda or not. And if he sleeps like this, we won't be able to do anything else today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27430	I believe that colleagues have heard what you're proposing and will seriously treat your proposal, but here I can't see anyone giving up. So Ekrem Ajanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27431	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'll be brief. I will only tell those who believe other countries are protecting BiH's sovereignty – it's a story for small children. BiH's sovereignty protects its citizens in sufficient numbers, and they need everyone to remember that it will never happen again in '90. and '95. For years because if it happens again, it will be in a completely different form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27432	Mirko Okolić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27433	Dear Members of Parliament, representatives and members of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, here, I want to give or not support through my discussion the proposal to put this item on the agenda for today's session, and if by putting this item on today's agenda, this session will be obtained next, which means I will support it, and that is that we will decide that this is the most important topic that we can discuss today. And if we live in BiH today, or if we are going to get for putting on the agenda this point one kilometer of highway, if we are to prevent the closure of certain companies that are being closed daily, if we are to prevent employees from getting fired due to job shortages, if we are to create new conditions for the employment of new radicals, if we are to improve the social status of BiH citizens and prevent this recession, i.e. to mitigate the recession that is currently in BiH, if we are to bring down tensions among the peoples in BiH, I accept this point. And that's why someone has to give me confirmation that this will be what I listed. Otherwise, this point cannot, on my part, be supported, because I find it counterproductive today when we have much greater and much smarter in this congregation to consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27434	Nice to Kalabić you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27435	Mr. Chairman, here, I've been thinking about whether to answer the word. This parliament, whether or not they wanted to admit it, discussed various important and irrelevant matters, sometimes also nonsense, because the Rules of Procedure allow a legitimate right to an MP. I, when... esteemed counterpart Denis Bećirović reported, thought he was looking for help with this slapping of SDP officials. It's not nice to get two people out in public...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27436	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27437	Well, it's not nice to take two men.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27438	Here, I intervene, Mr. Kalabić, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27439	So please me, I said, I'm going back to the discussion. I think it is devastating for BiH citizens to slap two people who receive 6,000 marks, public officials, on the street, because it is not good for BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27440	Mr. Kalabić, agenda!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27441	That's not nice. I expected Parliament, since they are parliamentarians, to determine this. But please, but since it's clear that one extreme wing of the SDP wants in some way these statements and initiatives, and whoever was watching the other night,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27442	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27443	One who watched the other night's national defamation of a member of the presidency, an unprecedented indignation in a series of ruses, where man commented on counterfeits with the aim of harming another state. A member of the Bureau is commenting on counterfeits, playing, not to say what, not to be offensive now, and he doesn't mind that it's a public disgrace, which publicly participates in counterfeits!?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27444	Mr. Kalabić, come on, get back to the discussion of the draft agenda 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27445	Well, here, it's a discussion, it's a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27446	We're not discussing Željko Komšić, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27447	So the presidency member's goal was to harm the state of Serbia the other night. That's what everyone saw and saw. What do we need this for? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27448	That's your grade, but let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27449	So, I thought at first I wasn't answering at all, that it was to that extent an unserious proposal from a group of people not to deserve this parliament. They have the right to their own opinion, in their own opinion, but I really don't think that they should entertain us with such unserious things, the visit that everyone has seen, all of them rated, and those who are important and irrelevant, and those whose opinions we hold have told us about this visit, now we're going to look here. It's not a dispute, we don't run away from any discussion about it, with a lot of arguments, with a lot of everything. If you want to talk all day about who's been coming to BiH and what part, and how, and when, and at what time, it's not controversial. I don't think, there I fully agree with my colleagues that this will contribute anything today if we want to do what is important for BiH here and if this point is voted on, we will participate in it and repeat it again and tell our own, but I think it is completely unnecessary at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27450	Here, we almost discussed it. So, Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27451	I would like first of all to say that this has full meaning today to be placed on the agenda, as the president of the Republic of Serbia has seriously violated the equality of all peoples and citizens of BiH. If that were the case, it also testifies to the fact that it has not visited all the representatives of the citizens and the peoples of one entity, but only the representatives of one entity. As if he forgot about the fact that no entity in BiH is exclusively owned by any nation, but that both entities are equal and Bošnjak, both Srbin, and Hrvat, and others. However, it was harshly ignored by the president of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing is, the president of the Republic of Serbia, and I expected colleagues coming from the RS to react first -- he violated the RS Constitution, because here is the RS Constitution that clearly states that Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat are constitutional and equal peoples. So, he broke the RS Constitution. After that, he also violated the BiH Constitution, first of all Article 1. 9 Therefore, it would be very desirable for all of us from both entities to discuss this issue today. And we in the SDP are never going to produce tensions in BiH, but we will always react when it comes to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH and when anyone in the country or outside the country violates the equality of the people and the citizens of BiH. And, counterpart Dokić, I don't think there's a chance today to talk about the views of Željko Komšić and Vojislav Koštunica, but that story would be unfair because Željko Komšić did not walk around Belgrade with weapons, but Vojislav Koštunica did walk around Sarajevo with weapons, so that we could hardly find good arguments in this story for Vojislav Koštunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27452	I would ask you to slowly bring the end. The point is proposed, we'll make a statement about the point, and then we'll see if there's a possibility of a debate or not, but here's the thing that these people who signed up for more and I'll give them the right. Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27453	Mr. Chairman, colleague Kalabić had one wrong quote, or I was not well informed
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27454	So he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27455	when he said that Mr. Komšić commented on the counterfeits. So, according to the official position of the Serbian government, these were the originals, according to their explanation, only a few years old. I'd like to, if you know about these fresher originals to deliver them to us, here, I'm applying to comment on them on the next show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27456	Let's move on. Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27457	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and the media, ladies and gentlemen, well, I don't know what we're going to get if we put this item on the agenda. Here's my suggestion: we're canceling Mr. Tadić's visit to Banja Luka! So can we do it? The second thing, I'm not his or his spokesman or anything, the man publicly said 'I can't wait to be invited to Mostar, to Sarajevo, to Tuzlo, I don't know where, I'll come everywhere', as he calls on BiH presidency members to come to Belgrade. What was the security and sovereignty of this 10-nation, unique? He even said he was supporting the sovereign, single and indivisible BiH. Does anyone read what the man said? And having come friendlyly to Banja Luka, here we call on him today, Parliament to reach a conclusion, we invite him to visit Parliament, because everyone here has spoken to us and to give him the opportunity to address us here in the Parliamentary Assembly where both homes are present.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27458	Please listen to me for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27459	Is that how we can solve the problem, or are we always going to complicate it? And another dyspression. That's right, Koštunica took a picture with that gun. I wasn't then because unfortunately I was in the camp, I don't know if he shot, I can't argue, but a BiH presidency member got a Golden Lily. So I don't think he won the Zlatni Ljiljan Željko Komšić for working in a humanitarian organisation, but for having just fought against Srbin, and for that no one challenges him either. Three sides were fought, there was a war, that's what happened. But are we going to keep going back to the same subject of who's who here and how he did it? I don't think this leads to anything. As a former colleague has said, we have a lot of things to do. That is what I will ask when the parliamentary questions are: What will become of us and of this state, and no speech will help us, neither Tadić nor Koštunica nor Denis Bećirović, and especially mine. Are we gonna get out of this crisis, out of trouble? So, please, even if this were supported by what he said in Banja Luka: What is the matter with the interests and what violates the sovereignty of this country? It's nothing. Here, I call upon him, if I have the right, and you support him to come here as soon as possible, the man will come. Then let's hear what he's saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27460	Here, I'll help you, Slavko. By circumstances, I know that Željko Komšić shot, defended himself and his family. Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27461	I don't know where Jovičić was then. Did he defend himself from him in the camp? If he was in the camp, then he was probably defending his family from him. As for the defense, it's all a relative and complex term, and I'm not ready today to elaborate on who did what. If it's still a story that one side is completely innocent, and the other side that fired bullets from the alleged position of defense didn't end up in places where they weren't supposed to end up, that's something else. But, colleague Ahmetović, I just want to deny it. When I was talking about counterfeiting, I was thinking about the total project that night because it was talking about exclusive photographs of the old months that were being published for the next few days, so that everyone who needed and needed these photographs would see that everyone had them all across Europe and across the former Yugoslavia and they all had them, and no one had commented on them, that this kind of media 11 counterfeits would be made that night, which I'm not saying, and I caught myself thinking that it was a serious story in the sense that a journalistic research job had come up with something that was exclusive, that it would be – and it's not disputed, it's not the first time that journalists were involved in counterfeits, but that a member of the Bureau was knowingly taking part in a counterfeiting of such an important thing – that it would be seen that, as well as those photographs and everything else that Serbia was doing serious work, and...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27462	Let's move on. Adem Huskić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I replicate, I would like to say that I believe that my colleague Bećirović has fully formal, regular and politically, I think, very responsibly proposed the agenda point. I agree that we should discuss it. Perhaps not now, we may need to extend for the next one, but this thing should, I think, be discussed in this home, because, by my conviction, Mr. Tadić Banja Luka has contributed to raising tensions in BiH, no matter how anyone realizes it, one way or another, but the fact that tensions are raised and I don't think he's relaxed things, especially because he's brought up some things that are objectively not true. But here, when we discuss it, we can talk. But I volunteered to replicate what was said about Mr. Komšić. Mr. Komšić is not from my party but I feel a human and moral obligation to say, since he's not here, I don't think he shot Srbin, I think he was defending himself, his family, his country against aggression, because if he hadn't defended himself, it would have happened to him, Srebrenica. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27464	Wrong quote, Mr. Živković. Denise, I had you on screen, you quit, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27465	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27466	I thank you, Chairman. The false allegation is that this is not a part of the agenda that could come today for business reasons. We are simply not in charge of foreign policy management as Parliament and we are not here to interpret the Dayton Agreement, whether or not someone has broken it. They have organs that can do that, and if Bog gives some of them, they won't be long. 12 At the same time, do not let such topics, at least those who consider the majority of the congregation, be put on the agendas, because we will be in a position to discuss each session on the agenda for several hours, if we start putting on the agenda a subject similar to this. Themes that could go from banishing djed mraz from kindergarten in Sarajevo and affecting the multiculturality of Sarajevo, from the issue of the influence of Iran's elections on amplified, let me say, Muslim or other parts here in BiH radical Islam, not to point out a different topic, or not to talk about breaking the Law on Gender Equality, because of what happened to fellow MPs in Tuzla, or the impact of sexual affairs on colleges by the Federation on the Bologna Process, etc., etc. Don't let these be the topics we'll discuss every time we determine the agenda. I ask you to return to the agenda, because if we hold meetings like this, then this House will surely go to one extreme.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27467	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27468	The Honorable Chairman, when I mentioned a member of the Presidency in the context of the holder of the Order, I did not say that he had no right to defend himself, but I do, if he was defending his family and his people, and on the other hand someone was defending himself. The second thing is the incorrect quote that is constantly stretching here – aggression. By what act, which court, at what level, in which institution has the institution found that anyone has committed aggression against BiH? When a court makes such a decision or a verdict, or if it were made, as a legalist, I would accept it, but keep making up these stories. I'm not going to potentiate my destiny, I'm not talking on behalf of my own here. Well, he had a chance to hold a gun and defend his family. I didn't even have a chance to survive, but Bog only gave me such an opportunity to know where my family is, or to know where my fates are, so I don't need them individually. So please, we're looking forward to some topics that just put the situation together and that don't lead us to the green branch. We've got a shortcut, people, stuff. I would condemn Boris Tadić's first statement that he denied BiH's sovereignty and unity. It's not. Behold, I said a moment ago, should it be repeated, if this Parliament called upon him to turn to us, and everyone here spoke to us, whoever expressed desire, then man would come. Why attack someone when they haven't compromised the sovereignty of this country? Please, gentlemen, influence any member of the presidency to go to Belgrade! He calls them all the time. Will they send a plane for them and will they send, I don't know, what services to translate them there? He won't. The man's in the mood to talk. The fact that he came to Banja Luka is where they welcome you friendlyly and where they welcome you warmly! You don't go there uninvited, if you know a... uninvited guest where the place is. So please don't complicate this situation. We've got a lot of things going on. As we discuss what Tadić said here, what Komšić said there, what Slaviu said here, workers are preparing to head towards Parliament. Let's get serious and get the situation back to normal, although nothing here is normal, if we're going to run for agendas like this. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27469	So no one gives up: two, four, five. Five for the replica! Momčilo Novaković. _________(?) Let's make a statement. Of course, we should make a statement, but here are the people who want to discuss everything and everything. I suggest you give up the replicas, vote on the agenda proposal and see how we proceed, please. Do you accept my suggestion? Here, Novaković accepts. Mr. Mitrović, Mr. Huskić, let's make a statement on the agenda, please. Thank you. I'm finishing the agenda debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27471	Ten minutes' break before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27472	Mr. Kalabić wants a 10 minute break. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Ring the bell one more time. The break's already up. Mr. Kalabić, do you have any needs? Please, we continued the session, have a seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27474	Here, we tried this pause to consult, but obviously we couldn't convince our colleagues that it wasn't good to put this point on the agenda today. A little while ago, especially after this dramatic news from Vienna and, usually, there were much more difficult things coming from Vienna than from the other side, but it's not being commented, I think this is more worth the attention, what just arrived. But for today's session and the next, voting for that point will also define our work during today's session and will also define some... points for the next session. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27475	All right, hear and understand, I hope. Please, the debate on the agenda is over. I have two suggestions. Mr. Halilović, please. I thought we were done, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27476	Well, we've talked in the hallway about what I'm going to propose now, but I suggest that, with this Interim report on the work of the Commission to be added to the Commission's opinion on finance and budget, because without the Commission's opinion on the budget and without adoption of that decision, this report will be mutilated. So my proposal is to consider with the Interim Report the report... Finance and Budget Committees. That's one suggestion. And another proposal. At the last session of the Investigation Commission, most members of the Investigation Commission signed a new Proposed Law on Freedom of Access... of Information. In this proposal, in this new amended proposal on free access to public information, we have tried to remove all those objections made to the House of Peoples, and also in this home, even though this House adopted it and we have proposed a law by a reduced, not by an urgent procedure. And I don't see him today in the materials, and now I've been trying to find him at professional service, but I haven't been able to. I propose, since this proposal has been completed, so most members of the Investigation Commission have all signed it, it is important that this law be put into practice today and my proposal is that it be found somewhere in these professional services and put into the agenda today, that it proceeds in the procedure of a shortened procedure, because it will take time to adopt it, and it is important... how to work this commission, so in total I think it is important that this law is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27477	Here, I'll try to explain, I hope to answer your questions. As far as the agenda is concerned, we have reached a conclusion at the last session to provide the Commission's opinion on finance and budget, i.e. that it proposes... a possible way of financing work, etc. And we got that report, all the MPs got it. And when we consider that agenda point, which is on the agenda, I will put this report to the House of Representatives' vote, or proposals for the mode of financing. The Commission proposes that your Interim Report be adopted and proposed a way of funding and MPs will be able to plead. When it comes to this second initiative, that is, the proposal, unfortunately, we did not get that law you're talking about officially in the College. If we did, we'd already put him in the process and I'm afraid it'll be technically difficult for him today, we're already concluding a debate on the agenda and we're determining the agenda – today it's going to be difficult. But we can make an 8th claim that it's an emergency procedure, because it's a law that's already being discussed, that the paper is just some, and the alignments, and we're going to put it on the 8th and we're not making this a complicated situation right now. 15 So here's another conclusion, hopefully, this time definitely debates the agenda. Mr. Huskić, please, please, please, I am closing the debate on the agenda and I have two proposals, two new agenda points. One I suggested, if you remember, is the confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint Rude Vidović as Minister of Communications and Transport. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Business conditions are met. 29 "for" (21 Federation, 8 RS). I find that the House of Representatives has decided to place this item in the agenda of today's session. And I suggest, with a consultation with the secretary, that it be point 8. We have another proposal. So Denis Bećirović's proposal to discuss "the conclusions at today's session on the harmfulness of the anti-Dayton and unilateral action of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadić, in the state of BiH". You got the material with the conclusions on the back of the act. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 "for", eight "against" (17 Federation, two RS). We don't have an entity majority, we'll get the alignment later. This is how we determine the agenda of today's session. 1. Approval of the minutes of the 55th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH, MP Denis Bećirović (first reading); 7. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 16 8. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint Rude Vidović as Minister of Communications and Transport; 9. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 10. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 11. Annual Security Intelligence Policy Platform – submiter of the BiH Presidency; 12. The Impact Review Report on the State Employee Employment Process in BiH institutions – applicant Office for the Review of BiH Institutions; 13. Interim report by the Commission of Investigation on the establishment of the spending of donor funds; 14. Final proposal for the authentic interpretation of Article 185 (1) of the Law on the Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (the "Operation Messenger of BiH", No. 8805); 15. Statement on the initiative of Parliamentarians Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić to discuss the House's meeting on the topic Reach the level of implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 16. Discussing (a) Parliamentarian Milorad Živković's resignation as a member of the Research Commission to determine the use of donor funds; (b) Appointing MP Slavko Jovičić as member of the Research Commission for the determination of the spending of donor funds (instead of MEP Milorad Živković); 17. Consideration (a) Parliamentarian Sefer Halilović's resignation as a member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; (b) Appointing MP Rifat Dolić as a member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; (instead of MP Sefer Halilović); 18. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Border Police of BiH; 19. Giving consent to ratification (a) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on co-operation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and organised crime. ... Point 1. Ad. 1. Minutes of the 55th Session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27481	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I received a total of four questions from the Council of Ministers between this and last meeting of the House. And this time I want to thank you for your efforts to answer these questions. Although the comment deserves all four answers, I will comment on two answers received. I received an answer to a question about researching the oil sites in BiH. Following the response, estimates of rich oil findings in the northern BiH area and the Dinarida BiH area are confirmed. It would be said from the answer that research and investor invention projects go according to the law, no problem at all. According to the unofficial information and writing of some of our media, the story seems tragic, and in this time of crisis here are the headlines from one of our magazines that depicts all the tragicities of this story, the title is 'As the law awaits, oil flows into the stream'. In this article, I would say, competent people say that research and possible exploitation of the oil source in BiH is a stalemate because there is a house in the regulation of awarding concessions in BiH and that it is absolutely certain that no one will invest money in the exploration and exploitation of oil in a country where concessions are not known and who also guarantees that the signed contracts will be executed. With full respect to the Council of Ministers and this response, at this point I am more inclined to believe what competent people in the media say. The second answer I would like to comment on is the question of additional government borrowing on the basis of loans granted and put into use and not withdrawn. Although this response deserves gratitude for the volume of effort and data received, it is still contradictory, and I would like to directly communicate with the Council of Ministers about this issue with a person who has been working to answer this question to get some further clarifications. After this answer, I have to ask the question: 'Is anyone in this country responsible for 17 million KM paid fines for the approved and untapped loans?' It's terrifying to know that a small state for approved and in time unused loans pays a penalty interest of 17 million KM, then we can imagine if we formed a team of experts to do an evaluation of the efficiency of using these loans as they would get. It would be good if the sooner he does his own responsibility and seriousness, the sooner we form an expert team that would do the expertise of the efficiency and justification of the credits used, and if we don't do it, I'm sure someone else will do it behind us and then we'll be in the car of those who uncontrollably and irrationally indemnify this country and we who certainly approved agreements on such loans. 18 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27482	Husein Nanić, also a commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27483	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have a comment on the answer to a asked parliamentary question that is quite similar to that of my predecessor, Mr Dolić. So it's a lack of funds based on approved loans in this text of ten creditors for BiH. Also, from this response that I received, it means somewhere around 16.8, nearly 17 million from 1996 to today, BiH has paid funds based on unused credit funds it has received. This results in the fact that BiH and BiH credit-seeking institutions are not ready to withdraw these loans and spend them on that plan they are looking for. There is no legal consequence for BiH institutions that have sought and failed to provide the spending of these funds, but there is a public condemnation of the authorities doing so and are not ready to spend those loans. In 2008 alone, 4.5 million marks of funds were given on the basis of untapped loans. 16 and 17 million marks, respectively, are ten brand new schools in BiH! This is how I want to give my vote that the government, that BiH institutions, the Council of Ministers, the Federal Government, the government of the RS must work more clearly and more precisely on these... loans and must be better prepared for the implementation of approved loans. So what they're looking for and they're not ready to spend it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27484	Let's move on with the comments. Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27485	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, I received a reply from the Council of Ministers 11. This year, at its meeting, on the issue of applying different criteria and criteria to imports of goods into BiH. I want to comment on this because I thank you for the answer, but with the content itself, I am not satisfied for a few reasons. First of all, the Council of Ministers didn't make an effort to obtain confirmations of what I had here on the information that I had or to deny through the Directorate of Irregular Taxation, the Border Police and other institutions in charge of our border crossings. And it is that day-to-day very different levels of veterinary and phytosanitary inspector services are charged at border crossings for the same goods only at different crossings the differences are multiplely large, by two, three times the prices of the veterinary or phytosanitary inspector's services, depending on whether the crossing towards the RS or the Federation. Why, for example, do individual goods return at the Oresje crossing because strict criteria on the quality of the goods and all other conditions apply, and the same goods enter BiH at the second border crossing? Why does the assessment of the value of the car in BiH import work in a way that even the person employed in Customs or the Border Police in Oresje car in Gradišca? There was no answer to questions like this in what I got. 19 I understand that there are regulations that regulate the same criteria and conditions at the border crossings, but obviously their implementation is controversial: to be implemented in the same way, this would not be what I was talking about and what I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27486	Niko Lozančić, also comment on the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27487	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I asked one question at the 50th session in three, so to speak, parts, and when we discussed the proposal, I revised the strategy to implement Annex VII. in BiH. So I'll just remind myself that I asked, "How many in BiH are privatized apartments by pre-war housing rights holders and how many of these apartments were sold after the ransom?" Further: 'How many of those are of 1. 1. 1992 to 31. 12. In 1995, for any reason, it was lost without a job in public enterprises, power companies and their organisational units, telecoms and their organisational units, post offices and their organisational units and how many after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, i.e. from 1. 1. 1996, which are allowed to return to work in these public enterprises?' And third: 'What is the same number of persons who in municipalities, or municipal administrations, courts, prosecutors, the Ministry of Interior and their organisational units have lost their jobs in this period and what is the number of which is after 1. 1. In 1996 allowed to return to work in pre-war places of life?' The answer is very short. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees does not have information on parliamentary issues. And I was aware that the Ministry that deals with this issue does not have this data. I got the answer I knew in advance, and I asked this to further explain how much we value all the strategies and revision of those strategies when it comes to the return of displaced persons and refugees.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27488	I'm closing my comments on the answers I've received. Let's go with the new parliamentary questions. Mirko Okolić, the fastest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27489	Mr. Chairman, my parliamentary question with one brief explanation. At gas stations in BiH, fuel for different and dubious quality is sold, from different importers and producers. Therefore, I ask the Council of Ministers for an answer: "What producer and importer can find fuel in the BiH market and who controls the import and quality of fuel, or who guarantees the quality of it?" Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27490	Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27491	Thank you, Chairman. I have a question for the Director of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange (Deprecated IDDEEA), i.e. earlier CIPS. It is known that the test issue of biometric passports begins on July 1st, and the regular issue only on January 1st of the following year, and it is a very long, unusually long period of testing. So I ask her the question: 'Why has there been such a long period of six months... for testing the system for the issue of biometric passports? What are the stocks of BiH's current travel documents, when was the last order, in which number and how much was it? And does the state of these stocks affect the decision to launch biometric passports?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27492	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27493	Dear Chairman, I would like to remind and ask the question: "When will the special session of the House of Representatives be held, and have I given up on the joint?" In consultation and in conversation with you, I know that you from the College have made a lot of efforts to reach that session, but at the previous session we received one very unserious material from two pages. I want to remind you, because here everything is forgotten, on the 3rd of November, at the House of Representatives session, an absolute agreement has been reached that we are only discussing economic issues and the crisis and recession, which has only just been in motion at the time, and has now experienced a culmination of yesterday's report from Vienna that we will not have a stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, that we will not get a billion and 200 million foreseen credit funds to survive. Of course I welcome my colleague Bahtić, who joined my initiative and I am warning you today: we will not need any biometric passports, no agenda point if this agony continues economically! There's nothing we can do. I ask the question: "When will there be a session?" And I remind you, if the President of the United States of America Obama called in the Konkres eight days after the inauguration and said 'Americans are in trouble', will someone here say how many years we've been in trouble and are there any exits? I think there is, but not putting that item on the agenda, and it's on my initiative then and on the proposal it should look like this: to discuss the House of Representatives that... The Chamber of Commerce and BiH and the Entity Government, experts, agencies, anyone who knows anything about the economy, all of our agencies, all our security 21 services, to prevent illegal imports and smuggling; so I also said that when they were excises: why we didn't tax luxury goods, so now we'll be not in deficits, but we're in failure!? And I'll end up with a saying that I'll paraphrasise, "My grandmother combs, the house burns." It's the opposite here. The house is already on fire, the grandmother's burned down, she can't even comb it anymore. What do we do now? Please break more of this barren debate and subjects of various kinds, let this country be saved, it is in my interest because of my family, and I hope to you. Do we have anything in common, people? There isn't. Stop these various initiatives, there will be a turn, tensions will fall if the people begin to live better. Will we wait for 10,000 people to arrive just to transfer from the location of the Federation Government to this Parliament or any other? Guys, we're in economic trouble, we're not gonna make it! I'm constantly warning you, and you're going to have some wild stories, so let's get serious once. Who's more invited than us to discuss this? Please, I don't know who I'm going to ask when there's going to be a session. Here, I don't want to leave Parliament, don't make me strike hunger until you organize it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27494	I hope, Mr. Jovičić, you haven't referred all the questions to me. I see you've been watching me. All right, let's go, I hope the Council of Ministers heard this well, and they'll pass on to those who need to do it. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27495	I thank you, Chairman. Here, today I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers, to the competent ministry, and since I see that there is a minister of security, I would like the answer, given that the topic is current, perhaps immediately, if it is in opportunity. The media published information these days that BiH institutions, state-owned institutions, have not made a promise regarding the temporary opening of the Skelani border crossing for the transport of goods, in particular agricultural products in Serbia, and cross-border co-operation in the area. So it's a very current issue, a question of sustainable return, business dealing in areas of concern. I ask the Council of Ministers, the chairman or his deputy, "What has the Council of Ministers done to open the Skelani border crossing and when will the Skelani crossing be put into full office?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27496	I support the question, I help, Gregorijan says. Azra Alajbegović. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27497	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is: 'What phase is the implementation of the highway construction project on Corridor Vc?' And, at the same time, I ask the Ministry of Transport and Communications to provide me with a report relating to the name of the tax on undrawn assets in the period from 1978 to 2008, and on the credit with the purpose of the reconstruction of roads, as well as the report provided by entities to the Ministry of Finance and the vault, which was addressed to 20. 3. In 2009, he was referring to these neutral assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27498	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27499	Thank you. I have one question for the Council of Ministers and, since Mr. Sadović is here, if he can answer immediately. The question is, at what stage is the Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters, since this law is also contained in a set of laws relating to the liberalisation of the visa regime?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27500	Mr. Ljubić is here. Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27501	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the question of the BiH Council of Ministers of Civil Affairs Ministers: 'What rules and at what level is it regulated and from which funds are paid out of BiH's sports pensions and scholarships for credited athletes and holders of Olympic and world honours?' To ask this question, I was encouraged by a story told by a top athlete who, under the flag of the former state, won the world and European medal and a lot of lower rankings, who today lives in the Federation of BiH with 450 KM pensions, while allegedly athletes of his rank in RS, citing the name Marjan Beneš, Anton Josipović, Milorad Karalić and others, receive a monthly salary of three or four average salaries. The second question is the Minister of Transport and Communications in the Council of Ministers: "What is the way in which the existing strategies for the construction and development of roads in the Federation of BiH and at the level of BiH provide for the transport of Western Bosnia to other parts of BiH or BiH with Croatia and EU countries through the UN-Sancanton over the next 10 years? Whether 23 BiH is involved in so far's talks on the construction of so-called BiH. The development corridor that was reportedly from Linc via Ljubljana, Novi Mesto, Karlovac, Bihac, Sarajevo, Pristina continues to lead through Istanbul to the Middle East?' To ask this question, I am encouraged to see a strategy for the ten-year development of travel infrastructure in the Federation of BiH in which, through the territory of the current UN-San canton, construction of not a single metre of modern traffic, and all planned European corridors across BiH are directed across the north and south of the state, which they cannot accept as strategic rationale, but only as a product of agreement between political centres of power in BiH. For the citizens of the UN-San canton or the wider Bosnian province, this is disappointing, given both the geostrategic position and the very poor current communication connection with Sarajevo and other parts of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27502	I still have Mr. Slavko Matić reported. Here you go, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27503	Thank you very much. Question for the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministry: 'What are the reasons that in the municipalities of the Bosnian Ship, Shamac, Modrica, Dervent as well as in some others no funds from the Return Fund have been implemented since last year'?' We all know that these funds are most often caused by very different and contentious discussions and their height and method of use, etc., and here we have the case that what was approved last year, and today we are in the middle of 2009, in the following year this process is still not completed, in some unfortunately it has not even begun. Although I am aware of the complexity of legal procedures that arise, above all, from that Law on Public Procurement, including some others, it is obvious that there are subjective reasons for obstruction by local authorities in certain municipalities. The other day I was invited to a meeting of returnees for Posavina where people provided so much data that it is incomprehensible that even today in 2009 tries to obstruct from individual representatives of local authorities in these municipalities in Posavina the return in a way that these same ones do not like the structure and list of those who are scheduled for the restoration of houses, they would like there, in some way, to engulf some of their own, and therefore obstruct, not call the tender, the reconstruction is not going. This is about construction work and, if we wait for autumn and winter, then we can cross those funds from last year, and we should have started to implement already the funds from this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27504	In the extensions, Salko Sokolović. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27505	Judgement time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow MPs, I have two questions. One for the Council of Ministers: "When will the procedure for selecting the director of the MAK begin?" For those who may not remember at this point what it is, it is an institution that deals with the removal of mine explosives. Reason: The election and appointment procedure has not been launched for three years, although the MAK director's term of office has expired. According to my information, there's been a director's office so far. I hope the Council of Ministers, or myself, gives us an answer which is why we don't have this procedure. I would like to refer the second question to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, Mr Barašin. According to my information, the prosecutor in the Vahid Alagić case suspended the investigation several months ago. Obviously, the BiH prosecution's final position is being removed somewhere in some forgotten D.A.'s drawer. Because of the prosecution's behaviour, my conclusion is that the prosecution of Mr. Alagić and an open investigation that lasted more than 18 months has been used for other purposes, not in any way to determine the responsibility or punishment of the person under investigation in this procedure. The question arises whether someone or I ask myself a question, and we should all ask this question whether someone through the D.A. wants to lead a human policy in police agencies in this case. For these reasons, the question to Mr Barašin: "When will Mr Alagić, therefore the competent ministry and the agency in which he worked, learn that an investigation has been suspended against him, so that he can return to work?" I hope you are not waiting for September 9th of this year, when Mr. Alagić points out his appointment to the post he was suspended from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27506	Here, I am finally concluding parliamentary issues and giving the ministers the opportunity. Here, Mr. Sredoje Nović is ready to answer immediately. Here you go. Here comes Mr. Sadović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27507	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, very briefly, when it comes to the question of the honourable MP, Mr. Genjac, I would like to give the following answer. 25 When it comes to the test phase, the test phase does not last for half a year. The test phase is set for July 1st. And what does that mean? This basically means that existing passports begin to be issued with all criteria and pavilions of biometric passports. The test phase of new passports, therefore biometric with chips, with protection, lasts for a maximum of 15 to 20 days, to see if the entire system, which is installed, software and hardware function, and only when the zero series is confirmed is ordered biometric books, because it's illogical to order books, so that we can determine that something doesn't work. So, our expectations under the contract of July 15th are that 200 biometric passports are arriving and will be started with that so-called. the test phase and it will last 15 to 20 days. Then it goes from that point on 120 days for the delivery of biometric books. That means the end of November, about, when the biometric books arrived. But it is much more important, much more important that we start the issue of existing passports throughout BiH on July 1st, so that the system is being played, so to speak, that is, where all the parent offices will be tied to the Agency for Identification Documents, where everyone will have to give fingerprints. So where we're going to put in place the exact same system as when the biometric books come in. So there's no talking about trying to, let me say, postpone, on the contrary, we're having intensive talks these days and with the biometric bookmaker to try to cut that deadline short for something else, but it's important that in July they begin, therefore, the direct stage of the issue of these biometric passports by the principles of biometric. As regards the answer to Mr Dolić's question: complete sublegal acts are being completed to determine all those who have the right, who will be entitled to special pensions, according to the Sport Act. And of course, this year will also be scheduled for the next year's budget for pension funds for all those who gain the right to do so. The procedure will now be implemented so that all those who have it can apply, report them to sports organisations, individuals to apply, etc. However, the RS has resolved this issue much earlier, but here we are also on track to resolve this matter by the end of the 2010 budget. And the last question was about the director of the MAC. With the existing Demining Act, the Director of the MAC is not limited to the mandate. He is a civil servant, and the new Demining Act is currently envisaged by the election, i.e. by the adoption of the existing law, that a new director of the MAK will also be elected. Here's to information, if you need to get it in writing, send it, it's not a problem for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27508	I don't think there's any need. So, if the MPs, Mr Genjac, Dolić and Sokolović, are satisfied with the answer, I find that they have received answers. And said Minister Sadović, who is also ready to answer some of the questions addressed to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27509	Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, MPs! On the basis of Article 13. Law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border and on the basis of Article 193. The Law on Administrative Procedure, as Minister of Security, I made a decision on Day 22. 4. 26th 2009. In point 1. The solutions are said: "The request of the Municipality of Srebrenica and the Municipality of Bratunac is respected for the determination of temporary border crossings for goods traffic at the site of the border crossings Skelani-Bajina Basta and Bratunac-Lovova. Point 2. Cross-border traffic of goods subject to phytosanitary inspection may be carried out at the border crossing of Skelani-Bajina Basta. Point 3. The temporary Bratunac-Love border crossing is set for a period of 1. 5 to 31. 12. 2009 and Skelani-Bajina Basta of 15. 5 to 31. 12. In 2009. Point 4. The transport of goods subject to inspection through the temporary border crossing from point 2 of this solution may be carried out exclusively on a working day, meaning from Monday to Friday, between 10 hours to 20 hours, with a previous announcement from the deployment of 24 working hours before the scheduled arrival to the temporary border crossing. And point 5. The control tasks of cross-border traffic of persons and goods at temporary border crossings, and in accordance with legal competences, will be carried out by the BiH Border Police, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and at the temporary border crossing of Skelani-Bajina Basta and the Office for Inspective Affairs of the RS, more specifically the phytosanitary inspection. Reason: Srebrenica and Bratunac municipal chiefs addressed the Ministry of Security with requests to allow cross-border traffic of goods at the Bratunac-Ljubovija border crossings, Skelani-Bajina Basta. The requirements note that by May 2008, traffic of goods has been carried out through those border crossings since the application of the border crossing agreement between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro began, in fact, closed. The Srebrenica municipality's request also cited the need to import certain quantities of strawberry fruit from the Republic of Serbia and, for the purposes of the newly built fruit processing plant in Srebrenica. Acting in accordance with the request, the Ministry of Security shall comply with Article 13(1). The law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border from the BiH Border Police, the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Directorate for Inspective Affairs of the RS also asked for consent, i.e. opinions on the determination of temporary border crossings, and in the process of resolution we also took into account the letters of the BiH Embassy in Belgrade and the Note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia. In the process of collecting consent, we did not ask for the consent of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, as the temporary border crossings are determined at localities of existing border crossings, so that no additional financial resources were needed to be provided for them. So, considering the demands, i.e. opinions and consent of the competent services that carry out border controls on cross-border traffic of persons and goods, and with the consent of the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the minister made a solution as in the sentence, i.e. disposition." Here, let me briefly say that according to my information at these border crossings, the Directorate for indirect taxation and the BiH Border Police are in control, but, therefore again, I am not confirming the information, I do not think that the inspection, the phytosanitary inspection entity does not exercise control from its jurisdiction. Therefore, here is the addition to this solution, to say that the Republic of Slovenia's inspection office is in its act of 2. 4. In 2009, which she referred to the Ministry of Security stated that, here I quote: 'We do not currently have the capacity to cover new border crossings, but we remain on the stand, which we have presented to the US Embassy in Sarajevo, that we will provide inspection supervision at the border crossing opened by the authorities in BiH for a strictly defined seasonal 27-year period, depending on the type of strawberry fruit, at a certain working time and on certain working days in the week.' The end of the quote. Therefore, the Ministry of Security has made an appropriate solution which, among other things, has been respected by these remarks, and at the same time we extended the deadline for these temporary border crossings to 31. 12. In 2009 to allow enough space for BiH and the Republic of Serbia's joint committees to prepare an agreement on the setting of border crossings between these neighbouring countries. According to the latest information, in the Republic of Serbia, the commission that would be our commission's partner, I don't think it's even established yet. However, following the adoption of this solution, therefore my decision to open these crossings, the Board of Inspectors sent an act to the chairman of the Council of Ministers asking the Council of Ministers to adopt a sublegal act as soon as possible, in fact a decision in accordance with Article 24. The Law on Plant Protection, which would be organised by the phytosanitary inspection at the border crossing of Skelani-Bajina Basta during period 1. 6– 30. Nine.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27510	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27511	So, in period one. Six. - Thirty. 9, Monday, Wednesday and Friday working hours from 10 to 20 hours for non-licensed goods. We have, of course, tried to explain by letter an inspection of what it is and that, in fact, in this solution, we have determined that the traffic of goods, which are subject to phytosanitary supervision, can be carried out only during the working week, in a way that any planned cross-border traffic of goods must be announced 24 hours in advance, which allows, therefore, leaving sufficient time for inspection which, I think, in Bijeljina to prepare to come and to carry out appropriate controls at the appropriate location of the border crossing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27512	Here, Mr Sadović, the MPs are very impatient, I can see they can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27513	Okay, about the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters, I think he's in charge here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27514	Leave the O.R. if you can't listen, leave the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27515	... Mr. Ljubić,... therefore the legislator of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters Ministry of Transport and Communications. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27516	So everything's done, everything's fine, we'll just get to the watermelon. Strawberries and raspberries will fail. Mr. Nanić, you heard, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27517	I'm pleased with this part of what matters to the Ministry. However, the problem has not been solved. That's why I'm asking...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27518	We're going to be looking for a new one, making a new parliamentary question... initiatives, etc. So here's the way, I don't have any more answers and, look, you guys learn whether it's good on the spot, if it's not good, if you want to write it down, etc. It's all right. ademe, what did you sign up for?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27519	I was going to say that this is a good practice and that each time it was meant to be delivered to the ministers before the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27520	Well, this isn't a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27521	Well, here it is, since you called.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27522	Mr. Lagumdžija, you're up to something.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27523	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27524	It's a mistake, isn't it? Wrong. So we have concluded parliamentary issues and comments on parliamentary issues. Let's go to point 3. 29 Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. So, on 19 June, the Council of Ministers delivered us here to the Parliament of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, with the requirement for the law to be considered by an urgent procedure. We delivered the law to you in good time. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we included this request in today's session. I'm opening a hearing on an emergency procedure request, so a request for a procedure. I have an MP reported, Momčilo Novaković. So, a debate on an emergency procedure request.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27526	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27527	Well, Mr. Novaković has a need to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27528	You see, I suppose after this decision from Vienna, or what happened in Vienna, all the reasons for the emergency procedure for this law cease. Now there is no, I don't see whether the Council of Ministers is able to withdraw the proposal to discuss the matter by emergency procedure and to enter into a debate under a shortened procedure, given that I have, of course, and a series of objections to certain members of this law which I will talk about if the procedure is accepted, although I don't think it makes any sense then, it means a debate that supports these members, not a debate that is against these members. Namely, one of the reasons, and before yesterday, which is why I thought, and I don't think this law should be discussed by emergency procedure, is the definition that 'when the macroeconomic stability of BiH is threatened, the Council of Ministers can't'... It is not the Council of Ministers that determines whether the country's macroeconomic stability is at stake, or not. So it's the fiscal council that determines whether macroeconomic stability is at stake. Since, as far as I know, I haven't been able to read anywhere that the Fiscal Council has determined either by its conclusion or by the view that the macroeconomic stability of this country has been compromised, I don't see any reason to discuss the emergency procedure until the fiscal council does. Giving rights in the face of this law... The Council of Ministers to do so is the opposite of Zakono Fiscal Council Act and, of course, the opposite of what we wanted to define by the Law on Salaries, which is also the responsibility of this Parliament for the elements of the Law on Salaries. So for these two reasons, I suggest that, indeed, here is the Minister of Finance, simply on this, if they can't withdraw the request, maybe we don't decide today, or I suggest to our colleagues not to accept the request for a member of 127, but to accept the shortened procedure. In the 30th time, it will be possible for the Fiscal Council to also take its view on the threat of the country's macroeconomic stability, as well as the possibilities, of course, to change some relations there. I'm afraid the Council of Ministers found the worst measure to meet IMF requirements to save 40 million. In particular, it's a bad measure, given the amount of pay for those we haven't decided to cut wages here. The Council of Ministers resorted naturally to the simplest measure. We could talk today about where all the Council of Ministers could save money, we could talk about expensive cars, we could talk about the funds of the reserve, which is used in the way it is used, about those that are not used, and could be used for these purposes, etc., etc. But I'll leave it to the debate if we don't decide on an emergency vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27529	Mirko Okolić, discussion of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27530	Yes, the procedure. Since there is no reason today, as it was yesterday, that this law goes into practice under Article 127. Rules of Procedure, I think it's far better that he doesn't even go along with this member today, or that this Parliament doesn't adopt him, because he has a lot of these shortcomings, because it was done on a quick hand, so to speak, because of the conditions that were ahead of the adoption of this law. At the same time, a number of legitimate reasons appeared where the proponent also said that there were a number of legitimate reasons after the arrival of the daylight, as they would say, this law and it seems to me that these justified remarks could be incorporated into this draft law that is now under emergency procedure, if we put it in the procedure of a shortened procedure. We can also satisfy some time terms, possibly, if they are ahead of us and if they are needed, and this law will be improved, which you take or leave today, and certainly not the quality that should be and which could be if we do this in a shortened procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27531	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27532	The Honorable Chairman, I do not accept that this law goes according to emergency procedures, by 127th, because I have a series of objections to many members of this law, especially to the categories to which it applies, and they would, indeed, be threatened by this law. That's why I accept that he's going through a shortened procedure, 126, if we had the opportunity to intervene on a law like this, because he's now selective, one-sided, and he wouldn't solve anything, nor, as it points out, would establish the macroeconomic stability of this country. He has nothing to do with it, but has to do with the endangered categories that work in BiH institutions, which would be the most affected: Border Police, here are our waiters in the restaurant, not to speak any further. So, I don't accept the 127 procedure that it's an emergency procedure. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27533	I don't have any more reports. I am concluding the debate on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Ministrys and Other Authorities of BiH (second reading) We passed the bill at the 54th session. The Constitutional Commission delivered the report on 22 June and I remind you that the Constitutional Commission unanimously adopted this law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27541	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! So the chairman stressed that it was a very short decision. But I'm not sure how precise she is. Because here he says that... The Council of National Minorities of BiH... deletes the point of appropriateness and adds the words 'and follows the mandate of elected members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly'. The mandate also has its beginning and its end, it is obvious here that since the Parliamentary Assembly is choosing members in the Council of National Minorities, and we know how the constitution is going and that it takes a certain few months to pass, then it is impossible to respect this decision that this mandate of members of the National Minority Council is following the mandate of elected members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so I am not sure how much we have achieved the goal and how precisely we have defined here. Yet we have left one space, one time interval in which there will be no actual activity related to the Council of National Minorities. Therefore, I see no reason for this mandate to be as it is from the day of the elections, i.e. at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, until the next period of four years.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27542	I hope the promoter has heard this opinion. Is there a need for a comment? Here, Mr. Sadik Ahmetović. I hope you don't feel called. I just wanted to remind you that when the promoter is here...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27543	We have made sense, since all the bodies of this House last as long as the mandate of Parliament and it is logical that the Council will function until a new one is chosen. So... the duty of every new parliament is to restart the procedure of confirming or electing a new council, I mean, it's, not having logic, it's been troubled... and this commission has taken such a stand and here comes this decision to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27544	Okay. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Finalising debate on point 9. We're going to Dot 10, so "Ad." Ten. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the appointment of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics 34 We got a decision on 18. Six. 2009 You have seen from the material that the term of office of a Montenegrin national minority is divided, so it is proposed that Hidajeta Redžić is appointed to the period from the entry into force of this decision until 30. 4. 2010 followed by Neđeljko Tomašević for a period of 1. 5. By the end of the term of office of this meeting, elected members of the Parliamentary Assembly, which Mr Suljkanović and Mr Ahmetović were now talking about. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports, I'm closing the debate on point 10. We're going to point 11, it's about "Ad." 11. Annual Security and Intelligence Policy Platform – applicant: BiH Presidency
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27547	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at first I would like to express my dissatisfaction that this platform has arrived here today or yesterday, and they were obliged to deliver this platform to us by 1 November.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27548	The platform arrived early, but this commission report... 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27549	The platform for us on this committee – it could have been wandering around the offices, drawers, I don't know where either – we just saw it yesterday, but good. So, even if I didn't notice that she arrived three months ago, she was supposed to be delivered by November 1st. ... I must stress and point out positively that one of the most successful agencies at the country's Intelligence and Security Agency has been waiting for this platform when it will be adopted – they would have to stop working. Fortunately, there are professionals who attend always... from the highest level, so those people who run that agency, our commissions, and, fortunately, I want to meet colleagues who are not members of that commission that there are almost no complaints about the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. There are isolated cases as they suspect, here is a public one letter that has already been in the media, an NGO from Doboj, its president is asking the Intelligence and Security Agency to respond to him if he is listening. It was in the media, that's why I'm bringing it out here in public. So, countless of these can come in demand. Fortunately, this agency works by law. Doshi, here's what I'm going to say publicly, intercepting and listening, as we call it, but only on the basis of the law and decision of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, as envisaged, and not how anyone thinks that there on the state's state of the art, anyone can attach to his intention, it's not true. I want to deny all the signs in the media and speculation that this service is doing illegal listening to both politicians and officials and citizens and grandmothers and Nana, and I don't know who. So he does that service according to the law. It has the full support of our commission and we are not naive people there to let someone play with the fate of citizens and to illegally use that new system, so-called. listening, I understand it best, but here I will say intercepting communications, and that system is operational and none of the honest people need to be afraid of that system. This system has not been introduced because of honest, normal people who have a huge number, but because of mobs, thieves, criminals who harm the constitutional order, whether ordinary people are involved in organised crime. So, all those monsters whose subject is just now and the observation of this service to deal with these people. And it should be constantly stressed, not that it scares thieves, because no one can scare them, their intentions are hard to see, but that's why we have this agency that, fortunately, works in accordance with the law and regulations, and I'm proud to have once belonged to that service, publicly speaking, which there is no abuse, which people do honestly and our commission will have support as long as they do. I hope he has the support of this Parliament, too, but I just called to say how late we are in these platforms and that these agencies, who know their jobs, are waiting for different platforms, they would shut down the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27550	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. So listening is called intercepting communications. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27551	I thank you, Chairman. 36 So, this very important... document, I'll just draw attention to one, to... attitudes on page 2 in... Subsection 1. The security interests of BiH, which reads "The annual platform comes from the necessity of protecting the value and interest that BiH has in the area of security, and that", I will only read this one point of view, "protection and defence of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of BiH, with the protection of its democratic institutions." In that part, I will attach one amendment. This should,...this protection, this security interest in the further text of this Year's Platform in some way potentiate and seek further implementation. So, I could propose two amendments, which would read amandman I. in Chapter I of the Security Interests of BiH on page 4 behind the word 'impact on the interests of BiH, primarily'... the words 'in the area of potential threat to its constitutional order and', and then the rest of the words would be added further as it stands. Next, Amendment II. In Chapter II. PRIORITIES on page 5, in sub-paragraph 3 behind the words 'focused on the threat of BiH security', the words 'especially its constitutional order' are added. So, the explanation is one of BiH's main security interests, as provided for in Chapter I, which, among other things, reads, 'protection and defence of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of BiH and the protection of its democratic institutions'. This would be necessary in the further text of the Annual Platform to particularly highlight the obligation to protect BiH's security main interest, one of BiH's main interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27552	Thank you. Mr. Kadrić, I'm not quite sure, but we'll see through the consultations how it can be intervened. I think the amendment to this can be difficult. But here, we'll see. So let's move on. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27553	This is a very important document for this area, and for the sake of reminders, we need to find out and also because of previous discussions that this Annual Information and Security Policy Platform has arrived in the Parliamentary Assembly 3. Six this year. She arrived at the Commission immediately after the completion of the previous House... and this commission intervened in considering this platform and scheduled a session... so that today could be on the agenda of this platform and that Parliament would not also cause a delay. Therefore, there is no reason to delay this platform by Parliament, but it can be seen that the delay of this platform in the parliamentary procedure has come from 37 reasons why the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency has failed to comply with the legal provisions and practices previously. Namely, it is known that the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency must work its work plan for next year on the basis of the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, and yet it is also known in practice that this work plan must be adopted by 31. 12 years ago for the current year. The Intelligence and Security Agency for this year has been prevented here from making its work plan according to this complete 2009 platform and is only able to coordinate its work plan that was previously adopted and approved with the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. I think it's inadmissible, because there's no reason for that. It is a plan document that could have come into the procedure by 1 November to Parliament, because so, the amendments and additions to the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, and envisaged, because it has been observed from practice that the practice of delivery to the platform is largely delayed and that possibly cannot the Intelligence and Security Agency bring its work plan for the coming year precisely because of this. I propose the following conclusion: Obliging the Council of Ministers and suggesting that the BiH presidency be bound by 1 November of this year at the latest, and in accordance with the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, Article 2. In the parliamentary procedure, the Intelligence and Security Agency Act delivers a platform for 2010, so that in time the Intelligence and Security Agency can develop its work plan for next year, i.e. it can have the basis for it to operate from this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27554	Please, Mr. Okolić, submit in writing a proposal for that conclusion you have announced. Business intervention, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27555	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to warn all of us that our Commission's report on the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform on page 2, when it comes to amendments, calls for Rule 111(3) of the Rules of Procedure, and if you read, it treats legal projects. I do not see any possibility of a business acting on this platform as an amendment and that it is adopted in the Commission itself and that it is an integral part of this platform, as I do not see even the possibility of today's session of amendments acting on this platform and that... these amendments should be an integral part of this platform. I am afraid that this report by our commission is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and that we cannot vote on the Commission's own report, but we could vote on this platform in this form in which we would get it. So there is now doubt what we need to do with this report, whether the Commission is meeting in the meantime to change this, because it seems to me that the amendments to this platform are not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27556	And I'm very close to this thinking, but there remains the possibility of conclusions, etc. provide specific guidelines, recommendations, etc. So here, you've heard, Mr. Okolić, you've heard what Mr. Živković was talking about and I hope we'll hold some additional consultations before the vote, of course. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27557	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27558	Mirko Okolić, no, no more reports, no more mistakes. Finalising debate on item 11. Let's go to point 12. Ad. 12. Impact review report on the subject: Public servants' employment process in BiH institutions – applicant: BiH institutions audit office He delivered this report to us on May 12th. ... It was the Commission for Finance and Budget. You also got your opinion on May 26th. The Commission unanimously adopted the Report and adopted the conclusions, i.e. the recommendations set out in this Impact Review Report. I am obliged to inform you that I have been informed by the auditor general that, on behalf of the Office for Auditation today, it is in the capacity, to say the material processor Mrs Fadila Ibrahimović, so if you need and question Mrs Ibrahimović is available to you. I have two reported, Mr. Džaferović and Bahtić. Do we, Mr. Džaferović, let Mr. Bahtić, as president of the Commission, if, Mr. Bahtić, you have applied as chairman of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27560	Thank you. As you said, here the Commission unanimously accepted this report, with a certain four conclusions, that I am not reading, you have received all the conclusions of the Commission. In my opinion, too, the Commission has overcome the view that the Audit Office has achieved fantastic results, because, apart from doing a financial audit where it has also had results, it has embarked on a pilot impact audit project. In my opinion, this revision is a key revision to see the effects, means efficiency. We don't need an audit, I always say, for the sake of reviewing, reviewing order works, an audit that isn't effective, 39 that doesn't produce results. I believe that this pilot project has proved very, very successful and that our Audit Office has begun this process, I hope it will continue. And I always say that there are still institutions and directors, managers who travel a lot, more on the plane than on the ground, more abroad than in BiH, and believe me, the effect of their work is zero. It is precisely this impact review that needs to be done because the main postulates of these audits are economical, efficiency and efficiency. If this is not available, it means imput (inlet) – activity, and... (exit and effect). We can spend as much money as we want, give, if there's no result, it doesn't justify our opinion. I also believe that the public and citizens want and need to know how these public funds are being spent and, believe me, we are being opened here on the Commission, we have good co-operation with the Audit Office when it comes to this pilot project. In the employment of civil servants, it has proved to be still ineffective, a dispute, but it is not all about the State Service Agency. That's what I said on this committee. There's a lot of objective reasons. That's one whole chain, team. The Council of Ministers or institutions does not form a commission in time. Somewhere a minister can't form a commission for half a year. There are, then, a lot of things we need to turn around to make this job of employment more efficient and faster, which is our goal to all of us. Mainly, this pilot project has shown three key issues: whether the recruitment procedures have been carried out in good time (and I have already said ahead how this is done), whether the responsible institutions have taken the necessary measures to improve the employment process, and whether the results of the procedures are in line with expectations. We have also seen from the directors of European integration that there are also some factors that have political implications. So it's not even up to this agency. I want to say this way, so I'm glad and I'm calling the Audit Office to finally start doing an impact review to see if our funds have been invested, for example. in agriculture (encouragement and credit subsidies), whether there are traffic effects (paths, minor accidents), in health care (patients, treatment, whether there are more patients, less sick) and in employment. I think this is the only way, right, that apart from financial work and impact review. And I thank the Office for the Review, in front of the Commission, commending their work and I believe that the Agency will follow these recommendations to make our employment faster and more effective in the interests of all BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27561	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, Ambassador-in-Office Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27562	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one suggestion for you as a College, above all, and I will have a proposal for a conclusion on this report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the employment process. 40 First, I would ask you to continue in practice – this is now okay, I mean, the thing is done – you as a College take care of the following thing, so this is not the Office for Financial Audit of BiH institutions, this is the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions. It contains, in addition to the financial audit, and now, thank Bog, the impact review process has begun, and when you determine the competent committees in the next period, that what happens with the financing should go to the colleagues in the Finance and Budget Committee, but when it comes to the impact review to take care of the area that is subject to the audit and that, given the nature of the area, commissions that are naturally responsible for taking care of these areas. Because it doesn't make sense that the Constitutional Commission, for example, analyses the State Service Act and is responsible for it, and when it comes to employment under this law on the report of the Office of Audit, that its report is made by the Finance and Budget Commission, although I think they have done nothing worse than the Constitutional Commission or some other commission would do, but simply, please consider whether this suggestion is correct or not, and determine according to your constitutional and business obligations. I think that if we did so we would be in a position to, given that we are all committed to certain areas through committees, that we have and perhaps some better effects in the debate here in front of Parliament on the report of the Audit Office. This is therefore a suggestion to you as a College and since this is a pilot project, so in BiH the impact review is something new and, I think, this pilot project has shown that this is a very serious thing, even if it is not put into line with the financial audit that it can even go ahead, given the effects that can be achieved by that audit. We used to be in BiH, until we had a system of audits, we were dealing with so-called Socially negative phenomena. I think this could be called the closest thing. We pass laws, laws are implemented, and I think the role of impact review is precisely to see whether laws are implemented in the right way and whether laws, which is even more important, are affected by the right solutions, or whether norms suit reality or reality requires a different normative arrangement. In this I see the greatest impact of the impact review and it seems to me that this pilot project affected what I thought it was and what I think should be an impact review. Here in this report are recommendations to the Council of Ministers and the State Service Agency. I don't think we should stop at that, and that's my suggestion right now: we should definitely accept this report from our commission that did this, and this commission is going to be on this trail to be in charge of certain institutions that are going to do their part of the job, but I think we should take another step here and from how we do today or if things are to be set up today will also depend on future practice. I think that, in our conclusion today, we need to commit the BiH Institutions' Audit Office to deliver a report to this Parliament within six months of today. Then we will be current, then we will show that we are following the problem and then we will show that we support impact review as an institution or institute that is new in our legal and political system. So, my conclusion (I made it here) is that after six months of today, since very serious things have been put here, the Office of Audit goes in line and examines who did what according to our recommendations and their recommendations and informs Parliament about it, so we'll see who did what, who didn't do what. I think we're also sending a message to those who are obliged to do something about the recommendations and conclusions of our commission, and obviously something needs to be done about this. It is obvious, therefore, that norms are complete and precise, so it is quite obvious, and it is obvious that reality is seeking to change certain solutions, because 41 we can no longer listen to the arguments that the period of the competitive procedures is two years and that it is all by law. We have to do something. I don't think the reality of Bosnian Herzegovina can handle the claim that a procedure of employment can be conducted under the law for two years. It can't be two days, of course, but there's a reasonable deadline and I think it's our basic role and our basic task and I'm going to make a proposal for this conclusion to be copied, so let it be put to the vote. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27563	I thank you for your discussion and suggestion. We'll consider that in the College. Replica, honourable Ambassador Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27564	My replica is, I have a need to say, because counterpart Džaferović... probably says that the other commissions and I think that there is no problem, but I believe that the impact review is one process together with financial audits everywhere in the world. We attended several... workshops, everywhere the same auditory works and financial audits and impact audits. Impact review? Basic adventures are economics, efficiency, efficiency and tell us whether the government, organisations, whether certain projects have produced results, whether these funds justify their goal. I don't mind if you transfer it to the Constitutional Legal Commission and, believe me, our audit takes the most of our time and most of all this commission is working on the audit. I think colleagues should consider going to amend the Rules of Procedure to form a commission for review only. Such practice is in Europe and is much more effective. And I don't mind, depending on the institution to the institution, that impact review goes on other committees as needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27565	Milorad Živković, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27566	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, since it is a new approach to work in BiH institutions, we have not all found it, starting with the Kolegijum, through this office and to our MPs and commissions. In fact, something we talked about is an impact review, but the BiH institution, which may have suggested only this pilot project, that it could be the BiH Institution Audit Office, and I think it should be a special body within the Council of Ministers that would be involved in the review of the impact of all BiH institutions, at the level of BiH, and talk about the achievement of the laws and institutions resulting from the law. The pilot project here is only on the subject: The process of hiring civil servants in BiH institutions, and I would like to analyse the impact of the Law on State Service and on the Agency for State Service in BiH, because I believe that such a pilot would get much more information about the reform that was made in the state sector by project or revision of the law, the implementation of this law, and the impact of the Agency for State Service on the implementation of the law. It would come to the conclusion that this reform may not be best done, that perhaps there are better models in the EU that are more adapted to us and 42 mentality and proximity, I am talking about the Slovenian model of organising the state service, and that the conclusion is then quite the opposite of what this pilot project has done. That the Law on State Service, which has been imposed, is not a good law, that the reform of the state service has not responded to its purpose and that the Agency for State Service has been working, let me say, in a way that does not answer. So it seems to me that this is an initial step, that we need to define ourselves here whether we're going to be in charge of the institution's audit office to review the impact of all institutions in BiH and, then, I'm afraid we're going to give her too much work for why she's not qualified to work, and this part of it was based solely on the financial part and hence our Finance Commission and the budget was the most appropriate commission to take care of it. I'm afraid this is just a small part of what we should do in BiH and take a look back to see the institutions that function at BiH level: whether they have responded to their task, whether they should, or, let me say, transform or improve their work or cancel if they are not needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27567	I've still got Mr. Bešlagić's report. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27568	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I had to report after these discussions, because I don't know if we're talking about a pilot project or whether we're talking about an audit of employment in BiH institutions. If we are talking about the pilot project, I can say that the pilot project has been well done, it has shown that what Živković said now, perhaps, that pilot project... to implement through, let's say, the institution for the revision of all institutions in BiH, means, but when it comes to a specific task, it means the revision of the recruitment process of civil servants, here these recommendations that are given speak something that should be as a conclusion, and that is this commission, it seems to me, and it has been fact-finded that the existing system of employment of civil servants is not effective or effective, and the procedure is complicated and it takes a lot of time. Afterwards, he recommends to the Council of Ministers what he should do. And it seems to me it would be good to accept this report, to accept suggestions from this committee. I agree with Mr. Džaferović, if this is the beginning to see which committees will discuss these things, but it would be interesting to say, let's say, one year again and get parallel results of what has been achieved in the meantime: from the finding that we do not have effective employment, after a year have we done anything about it. That's why I think there should be an explanation here, because here it's about a pilot project that, in my deep conviction, has shown efficiency and shown what should be done. Should we now go towards going with a proposal to form a commission that would carry out all the audits, or go now into an analysis of what has been done to these. But that's, then, the result is, I would say, dramatic, because it's been established that we don't have effective employment and that we don't have 43 efficiency and efficiency in these things. So I would ask that here in some things are just given some clarifications and I think that then there might be... adoption of amendments, or...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27569	Of course, but just to remind you that we all have the possibility and suggest a conclusion, an initiative, etc., but we need to make sure that the Audit Office works under the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, which tells him exactly what it does, how it works, who makes decisions, etc. But here, I still have a replica of Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27570	Mr. Chairman, I was just about to say that thing you just said. So there's a law by which people work and besides financial audit there is, of course, an impact review and nothing here is done and this pilot project is a pilot because it's the first. And it is based on the law on which the activity of this state institution, the Office of Audit, is founded. I, what was I actually going to say in my discussion when I was talking? The least of the problems... it's the least of the problems that the commission's gonna make, I'm talking about it. Look out, the Office of Audit... needs someone to be in this society, in this country. There is a state and there are two entities and they all do this, each for their own level of responsibility. Who's going to tell us that in a particular area we can talk, we can talk, we can suggest, someone competent to stand behind it and tell you so, and we think it would be better if it were done like this. This country needs it. Here, I know by circumstances that the entity audit offices are doing the question of expropriation in the construction of Corridor Vc so that you can see what the problems are there, what the regulations are. Why do we have slowness in certain areas, why don't we go faster as a society, as a state? In that context, I see the role of the review, and that's her primary task. And that's why I was saying that when you take some special area, not money, not finance, something that maybe some other people in another commission can better see that it is then given as jurisdiction to another commission. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27571	It is certain that we should also think about what Mr. Živković was talking about, so an analysis of the effects achieved, the law, the institutions, etc. So no one is eternally protected and no one has received permanent, eternal solutions. There's always a need to strive for the better. But here, does Mrs Ibrahimović have the need, in some way, to comment on some of the dilemmas that were possibly brought here? I'm not calling you, but if you appreciate what's necessary, here you go, Mrs Ibrahimović. She's authorized outside the Audit Office to attend today and give clarifications. Here you go. The head of the review team, at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27572	I thank the chairman. 44 Mr. Džaferović said..., removed the dilemma, in fact, whether it is a pilot project or an impact review. It is an impact review and, just because it is the first revision in the BiH Institutions Audit Office, it is said to be a pilot project. We haven't audited any institutions this time. We've been doing a review of the recruitment process for civil servants. Why? Because the topic is current, because we were able to implement it and because we estimated that significant improvements could be made. That time could be shortened, which was really long, and that the quality of employment... of civil servants who would be admitted to the state service would not be compromised. Here, it is also said that the impact review is not itself a goal. We identified the problem, looked at it, pointed to all its shortcomings and made recommendations on how to remove these shortcomings. And what someone said is that now it's a chain that both the other institutions and the others in charge should be included in accordance with our recommendations; and if that's not the case, we will have again what we had until the revision. The impact review is a parallel audit with a financial audit, not excluding each other, but being complemented. The financial audit does its part of the work, and the impact review looks at the processes, the work of the institution, the work of individual segments from the aspect of public spending, i.e. the use of resources that are placed at their disposal. We have shown this revision that the employment process is ineffective, that the competent institutions that either carried out the employment process, or who were obliged to oversee the process, did not..., did not analyse it, although they did not do so sufficiently, did not take the necessary activities, steps and actions to improve the process, and the results of the recruitment process were not in line with expectations. A large number of institutions said in their work reports that they could not realise their annual plans because the process lasted long. We have made certain recommendations and I consider it before the Audit Office that adopting the Office's recommendations for Auditing and Delegating competent institutions to implement our recommendations – the process can be corrected. And in accordance with the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, the Office is competent to cyclically monitor the effects of impact audits in certain time periods and to inform the relevant institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27573	Thank you, Mrs Ibrahimović. Here, I hope some things are clarified. If there are no more reports, I'll conclude the debate on point 12. Moving to point 13. We'll try to exhaust the agenda before lunch break, and then we'll agree on a voting term, so I beg your patience. So point 13. 45 Ad. 13. Interim report by the Commission on the determination of donor spending We received the Interim Report on April 24th. At the 53rd session, on 13 May, we had this on the agenda and after the debate we adopted the conclusion that this report was sent to the Finance and Budget Commission to take the position and recommendations on project financing. The Finance and Budget Commission followed this conclusion and delivered its opinion on 5 June. I don't need to read it to you. There's a recommendation here. So, I was also talking about this in the introduction, and Mr. Sefer Halilović insisted on it. So, if we adopt these conclusions, the Commission's proposal for conclusions and the Interim Report, the Commission's Report, we will practically submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers, i.e. a request for the provision of funds from the reserve. Of course, this conclusion would be directed to the House of Peoples for adoption, as it is to the Joint Commission. I'm opening a debate. He's got Remzi Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27575	I thank you, Chairman. So, as part of this point, and this is a specific job that also led to the establishment of the Commission of Investigation, which should determine the spending of donor funds as it is all spent, I will propose one conclusion and I believe that this conclusion should and should be accepted, which reads: 'Praise the specificity of the reasons for the establishment of the Research Commission for the determination of the spending of donor funds, the House of Representatives who are members of this commission will carry out their work without compensation'.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27576	Thank you. I ask that this proposal be submitted to the conclusion that we will make when we vote on the Interim Report of the Commission of Investigation. I have Mr. Huskić's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27577	I would just like to speak for myself, and according to what my colleague Kadrić said, I am giving up the fees for working on this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27578	Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 13. 46 Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Final proposal for the authentic interpretation of Article 185 (1) of the Law on the Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (the "Operation Messenger of BiH", No. 88/05) So you have received the final proposal for authentic interpretation from this point and you have seen that a joint session of constitutional law committees of both homes was held at which this proposal was also discussed authentic interpretation of Article 185, which was established by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and was delivered to the House for Decision. I'm opening a debate. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27580	Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't need to say anything, but this is the first time I remember,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27581	Right, I missed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27582	It was one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27583	...here, the secretary certainly remembers better than I do, but let's say in this conference it's the first time Parliament has determined the authentic interpretation of the norm it has passed, so the law it has passed, to those who are unclear what Parliament wanted to say when it passed that law. I have a need to say this, because constitutional law commissions, the College and the competent committees are covered by requests for authentic interpretation of the various laws that have been passed by Parliament. And I want to send a message to all those who address the committees, who address the MPs, that nothing can produce an effect, because there is no authentic interpretation until the one who passed the law says what he meant. That's why it's called authentic interpretation, because it's an interpretation of the author, and that's Parliament. It's a process that is subject to a very rigorous procedure and it's no accident that this is the first time in this session, because what we're going to do today, I hope, adopt has the power of law. It's as if we've passed the law. And that's why he has the procedure, which is why he is adopted by the House and is therefore published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". There have been attempts to act under an authentic interpretation firm as parliamentary bodies, competent commissions, constitutional law commissions, the College on the practical application of certain legal standards. Parliament cannot give opinions to any working body in the process of practical application of the law. That's what those in charge of law enforcement should do. It's the Council of Ministers, they're courts, so they're institutions that are in charge of 47 law enforcement. If Parliament gets involved, there will be a complete mess of legislative, executive and judicial authorities and there will be complete chaos in the legal system. I had a need to get up and say this that those who apply should first address those who, if they are not clear, who are obliged to enforce the laws; and those who enforce the laws, if what is not clear to them, should turn to Parliament, and this is the way that ends with this step. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27584	Thank you. Here, I'm going to abuse and two or three sentences I'm going to say, but I think you should send a message to those who are making laws that obviously something is wrong, that there's a situation where the law is unclear, unarranged, etc., because obviously too many have requests for authentic interpretation, which could also be seen on the other hand, is it? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Thank you. Let's move on. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the debate on this agenda as well. Let's go to point 15. (So, we have completed point 14.) Ad. 15. Statement on Parliamentarians Kadrić and Adem Huskić's initiative to discuss the House's meeting on the subject: Reaching level of implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27587	Well, I don't think there may be anything special to it, but I really think that... because of the topic and the title of this point that this initiative really should be accepted. We know well, and then, if 48 of this initiative is accepted, we really need to include a wider circle of people to discuss this, to make assessments, to assess to what extent the Dayton Agreement has been implemented, which annexes are not, which are, which are the reasons why some annexes have not been implemented, who is responsible for all of this. Indeed, this is one of the important issues, and for these reasons we appreciate that this initiative should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27588	Here, Mr. Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27589	It's not in the right sense of replica, it's simple clarification. If this initiative is adopted, we as the College will find ourselves in a little doubt who to look for material from, and it would help us a lot if the motioner of this initiative guided us by all of which we all need to look for material for this topic in order to discuss such a topic here in one quality way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27590	So, it looks like the promoters are going to do an analysis, so it's obvious that the conditions of being mature are that we organize a special session somewhere in August where we're going to ask each other everything for all the initiatives one two days to discuss well because we're going to have big effects on that. All right, let's go to point 16. Ad. 16. Discussion: (a) Parliamentarian Milorad Živković's resignations on membership in the Research Commission to determine the spending of donations, (b) Appointing MP Slavko Jovičić as member of the Research Commission for the establishment of donor spending (instead of Milorad Živković) So, Mr. Živković resigned on 11 June for membership in this commission. He informed us that the SNSD Club is proposing Slavko Jovičić for him in this commission. We agreed yesterday on an extended college not to take the replacement model, but to take it one step at a time. So, Mr. Živković's resignation, and then the appointment of the proposed candidate, and that's why we've rephrased this point. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Finalising debate on point 16. We go to point 17, very similar, just other names: 49 Ad. 17. Discussion: (a) Parliamentarian Sefer Halilović's resignation as a member of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, (b) Appointing MP Rifat Dolić as a member of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27595	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27596	Sorry, sorry, eh great, I saw wrong. So we'd have a break by 1400. You're welcome to rest, think about it, and we'll vote at 14.00. It's an hour's break. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Prepare to vote. We're taking the 55th session. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 "for" (22 Federation, nine RS). We have both a general and an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 55-session House of Representatives. Point 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on this request for procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 “for, ” 13“ against. ”
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27598	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27599	Yes, yes, we are pleading for a procedure under Article 126. (decreased procedure) Prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 "for" (18 Federation, seven RS), three "against". 51 So we have both the general and the entity majority. It's adopted. He's going, so he's going into short procedure. Let's go to point 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 "for" (23 Federation, 10 RS). We have both a general and an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the draft law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration. Let's go, point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (24 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that we adopted the Amendments and Complementary Act in the second reading. We're going to point six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH – MP Denis Bećirović (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (24 Federation, 8 RS). I'm saying it's... The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in BiH has received an entity and general majority, so it was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point 7. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH (second reading). We didn't achieve consent. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now! 23 "for" (21 Federation, two RS). We don't have two-thirds of the votes "against" from any entity, so the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act and the services of strategic importance for BiH's security has been passed. We're going to point 8. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to appoint Rude Vidović as Minister of Communications and Transport. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 "for" (19 Federation, nine RS). I find that this decision is confirmed by the general and entity majority. 52 Of course, I also congratulate Mr. Rudi Vidović. I don't know, an oath, if we're gonna do it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27601	'I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27602	'I swear
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27603	that I will solemnly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27604	that I will be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27605	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27606	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27607	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27608	implement fully the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27609	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27610	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27611	Mr. Rudo, congratulations. /PLAUSE/ Please prepare to vote, let's move on. 53 Let's go to point 9. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 "for" (23 Federation, 10 RS). I find that this proposal for a decision has been given to both the general and the entity majority and adopted. Point 10. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. We vote on the appointment of members and Hidajeta Redžić for the period from the entry into force of this document to 30. 4. 2010 and Neđeljko Tomašević of 1. 5. 2010 until the term of office of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of this Assembly. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 "for" (23 Federation, nine RS). I also find that this motion for a decision has been given to both the general and the entity majority. We're going to point 11. Annual Security Intelligence Policy Platform (substantiated by the BiH Presidency). So, first we vote on the Annual Platform, and then we'll see, in agreement with Mr. Okolić, to avoid this formulation of the amendment, that we go into the same conclusion with the same text as the addition of this platform. So we're voting on the Annual Platform. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 30 "for" (22 Federation, 8 RS). I find that the Annual Platform has received a general and entity majority and has been adopted. Now let's go to the proposal for a conclusion that reads 'based on Article 2. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Security and Security Agency of BiH is required by the Council of Ministers of BiH and is suggested to the BiH Presidency to deliver the Security and Security Policy Platform for 2010 to the parliamentary procedure no later than 1. 11. 2009' Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (Federation 24, 10 RS). We have both a general and an entity majority. Just to make sure we've done everything. So we have this supplement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27613	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27614	I have this supplement of the Commission, I apologize. What? 54 _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] So we have not adopted this report, but we have adopted the Annual Platform as a document, we have adopted this conclusion and we have this addition to the Annual Platform which reads: 'To be in CHAPTER III. point 3. Terrorism and radical actions, in the subtitle Radical acts in the third row, two points are placed on the words and add words to action against the BiH state." _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27617	On the fourteenth. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-06-24-0.u27618	No, I don't. Yes, we do. Our first session is 8. So we have 8, 14, and 22. This 14 is special. Here we will have those Poslanik asking, the Council of Ministers answers and we will have that thematically shared with the House of Peoples on the subject: The first quarter meeting obligations under the European Partnership and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the DKP Network. Both materials are prepared so that all three of these sessions will be held. I thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you. The seat is closed at 14.25.
