ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3853	We're waiting for the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Here we go. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and the international community, allow me to warmly welcome you and open the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For the 26th session, I suggest the next 1. Amendment I to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers I, the only item of the agenda. So this is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word about the proposal? Any suggestions for a change and a supplement? There isn't. Since there are no changes and additions, the agenda has been adopted. It shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So, I suggest we go to that point, Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, first reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. To make a little backup, to tell you what's been going on so far. It means to inform you that Colgius is home to the 23rd session, held on 18th. 2., discussed Amendment I to the BiH Constitution in its first reading, whose proposal is to the BiH Council of Ministers, that it is in accordance with Article 128 (2) and Article 129. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the College of the House forwarded the proposal for an amendment to the BiH Presidency and to the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples as the committee responsible. In accordance with Rule 128(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 'the amendments to the Constitution of BiH are submitted under the same conditions as the laws and follow the basic legislative procedure'. You have received the proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of BiH as well as the opinion of the respective Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives adopted the Amendment proposal with the conclusion that a public debate would take place. This is the first reading. I remind you of article 100. The first is the debate on the necessity of the principles on which Amendment I was based on the BiH Constitution. The House of Nations College suggests that the House adopt a conclusion that will be made after a statement on the 2 Amendments proposal, which reads "The Constitutional Commission of the People's House is authorised to hold a public debate on amandman I to the Constitution of BiH, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Brcko and Tuzla within 15 days." I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3855	Madam Chairman, members of the College, colleagues, fellow delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Brcko District regulates the legal status of the Brcko District, which meets the requirements for the abolition of supervisory and supervisory powers for the Brcko District, i.e. the Brcko District is being brought under the authority of BiH institutions. With respect and a written explanation regarding the proposed amendment, I would like to point out on behalf of the Serbian People's Delegates Club that we will support the proposed amendment in the first phase of these principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3856	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3857	: Dear fellow envoys and all of you present today at this session, I welcome you. On behalf of the Constitutional Committee, I would like to point out what you said in the opening section, that the Constitutional Commission has decided unanimously on the constitutional basis for this amendment. We have also reached two conclusions that form an integral part of this decision and opinion. In agreement with colleagues from the Constitutional Legal Committee of the House of Representatives, because we have direct contacts and we agreed that within the time left for us and which is consistent with the Rules of Procedure, which is 15 days, to open a public debate from today, with the conclusion of the 20th public debate to end. You have also listed the cities, and we have given the terms in which this house should be manifested today, to be members of constitutional committees, that today our home shows whether it is members of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples who will organise and conduct public debates in the cities that you have said, are Brcko, Sarajevo, Mostar, Tuzla and Banja Luka. And it would be terms 11th, 12th and 17th to invite relevant factors for this matter, and above all we think of scientists, primarily people from universities and colleges of law, then NGOs, community chiefs and all people who want to participate in such public debates in order to get broad support for the quality adoption and adoption of this amendment to the BiH Constitution. That's why I'd like to read these conclusions of ours that the Dom is showing up about them and see if we're on the right track if we're going to have this public debate. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3858	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3859	The chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, we all know that the Brcko region could not be resolved during the 1995 negotiations and that the whole of Annex II is committed to resolving this issue. The current status of the Brcko District has been resolved by the International Arbitration Tribunal decision which still has jurisdiction regarding the status of the Brcko District. When it comes to the principles of amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH that regulates the status of Brcko District, we see from this text, is that the Brcko District is incorporated into the constitutional justice system of BiH, with the status prescribed and determined already in the International Arbitration Tribunal's arbitration decision. Also, Brcko District gets the status of local self-government under the authority of BiH institutions. What is more important, therefore, this amendment introduces the possibility that such Brcko District status will be protected by the Constitutional Court in the event of possible disputes between the Brcko District of BiH or entity. So these principles are acceptable. It is necessary to adopt this amendment for the reason why this Brcko District status needs to be resolved, and I believe that this amendment is in line with the BiH constitutional system. Therefore, we will support the adoption of this amendment in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3860	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3861	Thank you, Madam President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here today, when we talk about interventions in the BiH Constitution, with the intention and purpose of making BiH's Brcko District, as my colleague said, incorporate the Constitution of BiH – as far as the proposed text is concerned,... for me, it is acceptable as it is in the first reading. However, what I feel the need to say, and it is raised as a question, whether this intervention on the BiH Constitution, when it comes to Brcko District territory, will address the issue of inequality in the authorities in the Brcko District, or whether this amendment will guarantee the equality of three constituent peoples in the authorities of the Brcko District. I'm reading the Statute, so the one I have in front of me here, I can see of course it won't. For these reasons, of course, this is not the subject of today's debate, but I feel the need to say, it will be necessary to initiate the procedure of amending the Brcko District Statute, with a view to guaranteeing constitutional solutions, 4 that is to say, the equality of constitutional peoples and in this area called Brcko District, which, from today on, becomes the jurisdiction of the BiH Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3862	Thank you very much. I think it's Mr. Zno's turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3863	Madam Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's much to say today. It is also good that amandman I. came to this home to the Constitution of BiH, because one process has been launched that we are all aware that without it, means without thorough constitutional changes, in this country simply the shifts are not possible. I think this is a good start and it opens up a phase that we all advocate, which we all talk about, which we all expect and want, only because it will mean something much better for BiH. Explain the law, forgive me, explain this amendment in the form offered, I don't think it even makes sense. This is a simple return of Brcko District to the BiH constitutional justice system. Everything else is details, everything else that is related to this amendment is much less important than that fundamental principle. And according to this amendment, it truly deserves the support of its constitutionality and the principles on which it is contained. The second thing that seems important to me is that we don't go into big debates here. We witnessed yesterday's broad and extensive debate, I fully listened to it, which eventually came down to repetition. And I won't say in Parliament it's never been a waste of time, because that's why we have time to discuss it in detail. But today we accept these basic provisions because everything we think today or what we've thought, and what we want or won't say, we'll actually have time to say, because we're only at the initial stage of accepting this amendment, and we'll be able to judge it well after what comes next, means after a public debate. I think it's going to be a time when we're going to be more serious, and even if nothing else, we're going to be more rhetorically serious about this amendment. We, as a club, will support this amendment without exception. I call upon all my colleagues in our home that this job simply seems to me at this point, technically, but also essentially to do this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3864	Thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Koprivica. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3865	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, guests and others present, I won't say anything new but I still feel the need to say a few words when it comes to this agenda point. First of all, this is an example that those principles of the Prudish Agreement concerning the amendment to the BiH Constitution are in practice experiencing their confirmation, which means that this is one way to go from easier to harder issues to constitutional changes in BiH and to one day to a solution acceptable to all the peoples in BiH when it comes to reforming the Constitution. With this amendment, Brcko District, as we had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues, is taking part in the constitutional legal order of BiH and is given the right to access the Constitutional Court of BiH, and this amendment creates frameworks for shutting down the Office of Supervisors for the Brcko District. Also, this amendment fully respects the principle of equality between the constituent peoples in BiH in the process of possible disputes before the BiH Constitutional Court, between the Brcko District and the BiH institutions or entities, where the dispute, according to the amendment, can be initiated through the votes of most members of the Brcko District Assembly, which includes at least one-fifth of MPs from all constituent nations, which is indeed a good example in which the principle of equality of the constituent peoples is respected. We also heard from the president of the Constitutional Commission that a 15-day public debate on the issue in five BiH cities, and this issue of the Brcko District Statute, I think it is a question that will come naturally after the adoption of this amendment. I am also voting in favour of this proposal and I will vote in favour of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3866	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3867	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear and esteemed colleagues, as the president of our club said, will personally support this amendment that we are discussing today and which was discussed several moments ago at a session of the Constitutional Commission. But I would like to say this: that in the amendment phase following this, I will submit an amendment and ask for an amendment to the current text of this amendment, which has been submitted for one basic reason that it is not fully in line with the Constitution of BiH and with the final arbitration decision. In fact, the BiH Constitution in Article I, paragraph 3, found that BiH consists of two entities: the Federation of BiH and the RS, and the final arbitration decision in Article 59 accurately states that the district plan is in line with the constitutional requirement that BiH also consists of two and no more than two entities. As it is written in the position (2) of this amendment, in the section on the Constitutional Court and the possibility of resolving and deciding on disputes that may arise between one or more entities, therefore, this formulation departs from, precisely, the BiH Constitution as it is determined. It's falling off the constitution, more suited to some political agreements on 6 which a little bit in his discussion also told my distinguished colleague Mr. Koprivica, therefore more suited to the Prudic Agreement. He's turned to the future, and it seems to me that in some future events he can be deeply harmful to the RS. That is why I am now announcing that I will submit an amendment and request that the position (2) of this amendment proposed in the Constitution be corrected, specified and aligned with the basic provision of the Constitution contained in Article I(3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3868	Thank you very much. The word has the first deputy, Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3869	Thank you very much for the word to Mrs. Majkić, welcome to all of you. I can't include, I can do that to the gentleman who's following our work, I believe we'll be in touch. So, I'd say a few words just. As different views as compared to what the three leaders have done regarding the Prudish Agreement, I think that the effects of Prud are already visible in BiH, and that this is a debate on one such effect that will mean one historic step in this country from an unacceptable Annex IV, which is an integral part of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and I have no doubt at all that such an amendment, whether in any changed form, will receive support in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, both in one home and in another. I am obliged to tell my colleagues that the College of the House of Nations along with the club presidents received the first Deputy High Representative, Dr Gregorijan, Ambassador of the American, Mr. Ingliš, and their associates, so after such a visit this esteemed delegation also made to the House of Representatives. We have almost unanimously, not almost but unanimously said, expressed our hopes that this amendment will receive support in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that it is the end of something that is practically the implementation of the arbitration tribunal. And that certainly Brcko's status gets one status position, enters the constitutional norm, becomes an integral part of the BiH Constitution, but it is practically the first step in our pursuit, I can say quite clearly expressed by all political options in BiH, that this country must get a fair and fair constitution with which all the constituent nations and all the citizens of BiH will be satisfied. So, which will accept it in the parliamentary procedure after the public debate, hear the voice of the public and have in its own office which will also mean BiH's progress. We gave hope to Dr. Gregorijan that there would be no doubt about accepting such a great deal of effort by the supervisor when it comes to the Brcko District and that constitutional standards of the Court of Justice would be implemented without a doubt. This amendment in its last sentence has something that my colleague Koprivica has already said, a true equality of the forming nations in this country. The Brcko District Parliament is thought of and the adoption of this amendment will mean the end of the Supervisor's mandate in Brcko. So, 7 it's a perfectly logical end to the ingenuity, so to speak, of the international community in one part of BiH's space. I want to say and express my hopes that this will be, in the beginning I said, the first historic step in obtaining a new BiH constitution and I am confident that we will experience almost a moment here in Parliament to adopt a reformed constitution of BiH, also, in line with what I said, based on the principles of true equality of all three constituent peoples in BiH and to the satisfaction of all BiH citizens where no one will feel differently than at home. So feel in all the places of this country as if it were home. So embrace such solutions that will satisfy all three constituent nations. So, then I think you'll create a mature and healthy political atmosphere to say and the OHR thank you for everything you've done, the Constitution we've got, we're pleased with it, thank you for your help and support, we can now without OHR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3870	Thank you very much. The word has a second deputy chairman, Mr. Tihić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3871	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first amendment to the BiH Constitution since the Dayton Agreement. It is important that for the constitutional position of the Brcko District, it is also important for the legal order of BiH. This is, among other things, the result of the work of the Prussian Troika, or the Prudic Process, but it is also an important role, as Mr Filipović said, and supervisor Gregorijan and the US Embassy in determining this final text. However, the most important thing is that we have reached a general consensus here in Parliament on this issue. This is more important than all this who is and how the process has been launched, it is important that today there is one general consensus when it comes to this amendment to determining the legal position of the Brcko District. I believe that this amendment will be the basis for the positioning of the Brcko District in BiH's overall political system within BiH's legal institutions, including what fellow delegates/legislators are saying when it comes to certain changes, possibly the Brcko District Statute, so that this is important from that point of view. I hope that the BiH Parliament will adopt that initiative sent by the Prussian Troika to Parliament, to join the amendments and additions to the BiH Constitution and that this important matter is being discussed and decided right in Parliament. To be a joint act of all political parties, here as was the end of the case with this amendment to determine the legal position of the Brcko District. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3872	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who answers your question? Mr. Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3873	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to support this amendment in my first reading, and I think it's a correct amendment that's practically the real life that's been going on in Brcko for years. So the practical content of this amendment is that what Brcko does turns into a constitutional norm, and I think that's good, and that's why I'm going to support this amendment. I also feel that the Peace Implementation Council has made it clear that there is a so-called Five conditions. He practically agreed to go on two, to transform the OHR into a Special Representative, that is to adopt this amendment, and that is to address the issue of state property. And there are no more conditions for shutting down the OHR, nor will there exist within international institutions, I would say, some big debate in the future, whether or not, then transform the OHR into the Special Representative. I certainly think it's also R, too, a very important element that has defined me to support the adoption of this amendment. So I think this is a useful thing to support, and I believe it will have an adequate majority in other readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3874	Thank you very much. Here's Mr Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3875	I don't suppose I'm going to say smarter than these colleagues who have already spoken, but I mean, I need to say that by adopting this amendment, we're removing a problem from the agenda that was objectively between us. And what I'm saying is that I'm very happy to participate in a good start, in my opinion, and to adapt the Dayton Constitution to the current needs of the citizens of this country, and you all remember when the dejtonski ustav, I'm not going to say, "I'm getting adopted," but we had one need, and that's to stop the war. Now it's far behind us and I think this is a very good start. I'm really very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-05-0.u3876	Thank you very much. 9 Is there anyone else who answers? There isn't. I am concluding the debate and I propose that we vote like this: firstly, on opinion, means on the amendment proposal... on the principles on which it is based and secondly on the conclusion proposed by the Constitutional Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Who is to support the principles on which Amendment I was based on the Constitution of BiH? Do you mind? Unanimity. So we adopted a unanimous amendment to the BiH Constitution. Now we're voting on the conclusion. So, the Constitutional Commission has proposed two points in shape, but the bound points, one is the conclusion. So it's '1. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly sets out the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples to hold a public debate on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, together with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, and 2. The public hearing shall be conducted according to procedure, organisation and deadlines with agreement with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and shall be completed within a period of not less than 15 days, and shall, after full public hearing, submit the report to the House." I invite you to set yourselves up according to this conclusion. Who's in favour of the Constitutional Commission's proposal for a conclusion? So this point was adopted unanimously. This concludes this session and concludes the 26th session of the House of Peoples. The seat's finished at 11.50.
