ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23424	Please take your seats. We have 22 MPs present at the moment, which is the quorum. I am opening the 45th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, once again, I welcome the audience. At this session, according to standard practice, all those who are important for the maintenance of this session are invited. Of course, I also welcome representatives of information funds, NGOs and all others. At this point, I cannot determine exactly how present it is. There were 22 of us when we started, and there were other MPs who joined us, and it's obvious we have a quorum. Mr. Jovan Todorović, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, Mr. Husein Nanić, Mr. Lazar Prodanović, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Velimir Jukić, Martin Raguž, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović and Zlatko Lagumdžija justified their absence from the session. So here I repeat, the session still has a quorum and we can work and decide fully. Call for today's session you got. A few priors. So, yesterday, we had a session of the Expanded Collateral that we agreed on, I repeat, to agree on the proposed agenda. We also informed the presidents of clubs and members of the Enlarged College about all activities carried out in relation to information, requests for inclusion in the agenda, etc. Some of it was sent to you, so I hope we don't waste much time on that. One announcement: On 22 January 2009, we received a notice on the formation of a new mixed club of MPs in the House of Representatives, so information. That is, so the Mixed Club SDS and Independent MP Momčilo Novaković. The club's chairman is Momčilo Novaković. Here, that would be the notice within, to put it that way, the previous questions. _________(?) 2 [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23427	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives, namely, at the last session of the House of Representatives, we have reached one conclusion which is that at the next session, and we should have done so at the last session of the House of Representatives, but here we have not done so at the joint session and the House of Representatives and the Nationals, but in any event today we should have had the agenda ‘Information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković’, otherwise, assistant minister of security for the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug abuse and also the president of the task force against terrorism. So that conclusion was accepted by the House of Representatives and I think that this point should be on the agenda today and the BiH Council of Ministers has had an obligation to deliver it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Since we do not have the current material in writing, I do not know, I am asking you, and the chairman - is it possible to put that item on the agenda, so that perhaps oral information is given to us by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security, since it has been more than half a month now, and that the Council of Ministers has not remembered that they are finally considering this issue and delivering elementary information to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I must say that if such practice continues, then it is absolutely certain that BiH citizens will be more legally insecure than they are right now, and it is indeed inappropriate to treat BiH citizens this way. Yesterday it was some ordinary citizen, so to speak, Muhamed Brkić, completely innocent of arrest, no one reacted. Ilija Jurišić in Belgrade, too. We have insisted, conducted discussions, but the Council of Ministers and other competent authorities do not clearly do what they need to do. But here, now we have a first-rate scandal. It is, however, a person in a very important place and the Council of Ministers will still not even provide information about it, although this is what Parliament's House of Representatives is looking for. If there is a conclusion to this House, then to the Council of Ministers only in a way - deliver, wait, etc. - I think more responsibility will then be given to those who support such a Council of Ministers, than this Council of Ministers does. I also wanted to propose for today's session this item of the agenda relating to the '2008 Work Report', however, here we have this morning in the materials that you, 3 Mr. Belkić, have been informed that this information should be adopted today and tomorrow at the Council of Ministers, so I am not going to talk about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23428	Thank you very much. Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23429	... last time asked for a point entitled ‘Information of the BiH Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration’. In the meantime, we have received information on how the procedure for the regular appointment of the Director of the Directorate is going. Also, the Joint Commission for European Integration was in session and it brought some views on it, so it came into consideration that, eventually, the need for this agenda was exhausted. However, the SDA Club discussed the issue again yesterday and believes it is necessary for this House, or Parliament, to declare this important issue, so that we insist that today the agenda item under the heading ‘Information of the BiH Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23430	Here's to the agenda. Replication on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23431	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23432	Yes, discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23433	Thank you. The SNSD club, if it hadn't insisted on putting this item on the agenda, we would have insisted on putting it on. And we are asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come and explain the reasons why the Director of the Directorate for European Integration has not been appointed, and we are now insisting on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23434	Thank you very much. So, have there been any further reports to discuss the agenda? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 4 So in the introduction, I tried to remind you that we talked about all these issues yesterday and agreed on an extended college. Apparently, there's little information missing. So, when it comes to the information regarding the arrest of Assistant Minister Mr. Vuković Vjekoslav, we gave the information yesterday, this morning, 10 minutes ago, the information came from the minister. It's on the table, I don't know if you've got it all, she's here. But I don't think that at this point people can prepare to read, a team before we asked for information from the Council of Ministers. So, to your comment that we are waiting, etc., I can tell you that this College of the House is very serious and actively providing materials, having communication with the Council of Ministers, asking for some results and obviously having some results. However, in any case, to honor the Rules of Procedure, we will, I will propose to the House to declare your proposals. So you're staying with it, you're proposing this item of the agenda to be included today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23435	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23436	I'm the one who concluded the argument and there isn't. Mr. Huskić, he can't. And let's be clear about Mr. Izetbegović's proposal. So, I would ask you to deliver me the written text point, the formulation point, even though I could read it if you don't mind. Here, I'll read it. So, Mr. Bećirović is asking for a debate on the Council of Ministers' information that we do not have. We have this information from the Minister of Security, which I asked Mr. Secretary to deliver yesterday, and the man delivered it. So she didn't make it to the Council of Ministers. So we were looking for information from the Council of Ministers on the arrest of Assistant Minister Vjekoslav Vuković. Please prepare yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23437	Mr. Belkić, just about the formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23438	So give me the formulation, Mr. Bećirović, I'll be happy to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23439	Well, I mean, it's not hard to get that formulation, only if we get the record from the previous session, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23440	I took this record.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23441	So it's no longer a personal, individual proposal. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23442	It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23443	It's about the realization of this conclusion of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23444	But we don't have the material, Mr. Bećirović, as it is in this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23445	Well, I know we don't have and I see.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23446	But here, we'll make it clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23447	Well, there's nothing to make out if we don't have any material.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23448	We have a kind of material that's not from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23449	Mr. Belkić, I say very clearly - The House of Representatives has adopted a clear conclusion in which it seeks
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23450	Okay, okay, are you proposing this agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23451	Let me finish. In short, therefore, the House of Representatives asked the Council of Ministers to provide information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23452	Well, we know that, Mr. Bećirović, we know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23453	The BiH Council of Ministers is unable to deliver that information after half a month. We can only conclude at this point is that the Council of Ministers has not realised the conclusion of the House of Representatives, and now as a promoter, here's this point, on behalf of the House of Representatives, of course we can't vote on this matter, but at least, here you, as chairman, realize they're not doing what they're supposed to do. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23454	Here, I conclude, Mr Bećirović, that until today, the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the conclusion of this House, has failed to comply with the fact that the resolution minister has tried to offer a solution here. Thank you very much. We are going to make a statement on the proposal, or a request for inclusion in today's session of the agenda table proposed by the SDA Club, here and supports the SNSD Club. Therefore, ‘Information by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration’. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! So, with 26 votes "yes",... with enough entity majority, I conclude that this proposal for inclusion in the agenda has been adopted. With that, we need to agree, so this is about this information, it should be where these others are, Branka, help me out a little bit, where these reports are. So that would be point 27. Thank you very much. This way, we've finished discussing today's agenda. Let me conclude that today's session has 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 44th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law on internal and maritime navigation (first reading); 5. Proposal for a law on free legal aid (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawyership (first reading); 7. Proposed law on preventing riots in sports competitions (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Guarantee Fund Act (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 7 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MP Adem Huskić (first reading); 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 16. The BiH presidency's decision to place professional military personnel in formation posts in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces; 17. Decision of the BiH Presidency on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the International Security Assistance Force mission in (ISAF) Islamic Republic of Afghanistan; 18. Decision of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs on amendments to the Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to confirm; 19. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Proposal for the Law of Aviation of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 20. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 21. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment; 22. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment (first reading); 23. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Conclusions Proposal for the Review of the Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009, and so on - the Party of Democratic Action Club - Poslanik Remzija Kadrić; 24. Report on activities on the project “Autoput to Corridor Vc” and Plan of Next Activities; 25. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in 2008 (the BiH Directorate for European Integration material); 26. Final report on the implementation of measures under the mid-term BiH Development Strategy in 2004-2007 (PRSP) and Economic Trends, Annual Report 2007 of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate; 27. Information from the Chair of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration; 28. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the Construction of the Immunity Law; 29. Proposal for a concerted conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Representative's House on the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008. 30. Declaration on MPs' initiatives (a) Slavko Jovičić for convening a special session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses with only one item on the agenda 'Employment and economic situation in BiH, that is, the economic recession and collapse of the banking system in many countries of the world and Europe, and reflection of the 8 states in BiH, i.e. on the economy and the overall economic situation in this country' (b) Sadik Bahtić's consideration of the next session of the House or at the joint session of the two houses of the following points 'Global financial crisis, negative effects on the BiH economy and measures to overcome the crisis'. This is the agenda set for today's session. Let's get to the realization. Ad. 1. Record of the 44th session
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23458	I welcome all present. I got an answer to a parliamentary question that concerns who has every right to physical and technical protection, because we had a few months of practice back that some politicians invented themselves some kind of attacks, sent themselves anonymous threatening letters to increase security, and what costs this country. I received a list of all who should have the law: members of the Presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers of the Council of Ministers, chairman of the House of Peoples. 9 This shows that some politicians, who are not listed here, were also additionally, which I think is wrong, because it proved that there were no threats afterwards and I believe that this practice should stop. I said that, a few times I was in Bihaq when we got an escort, that's not what Bog Tito when he's been before the war, it blocks the whole city, it costs a lot, the citizens are bitter. That same politician if he came... no one would turn on him or know him. So that's it. I'll just say for a little while, I read in the media these days that SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija said that the Party for BiH voted together with the SDA for the 'prudi budget'. I responsibly argue that the Party for BiH, we all know, did not vote in favour of the 'prudiary budget', especially that it was against the Court of Justice and against the refugees and displaced persons. So, to deny the SDP president's statement that the Party for BiH supported the 'prudiary budget', we did not support it. And on the Commission I was against and here the Party for BiH Club was against that 'prudiary budget'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23459	Next for a comment, Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23460	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this response, in the sense that from the Secretariat and the Joint Service we have been delivered to support the Review of Official Travels abroad of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for a period of 1. ... until 1 December 2008 and from 1 December 2007, on parliamentary issues, Denis Bećirović, Azri Alajbegović. On the basis of this answer, I believe that actually Mr Bećirović has received a completely adequate and concrete answer to his asked question, and the addition of my question has been completely left out of this answer, so I ask the service that this supplement, means the answer Azra Alajbegović, in fact, supplement in the way I asked for it, and that is to make a review of MPs who refused travel and official absences related to, above all, the country's representation abroad at different meetings, with different specific weights. Why am I saying this? Because I actually think that this is a subject that is very much discussed in the media and I think that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should in a transparent way actually show the citizens of BiH that these are not any travel related to certain implementations or other prefixes, as the media is trying to present it, but it is one serious job – a presentation of BiH and official travel with a clear and concrete goal. And, in fact, I think that this would, in some ways, give BiH citizens and show that this segment is extremely important and that BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs and delegates are doing it in a correct way, that it is an integral part of their work. At the same time, I would ask that Mr Bećirović's response be systematised, because this response is set in calendar order, and I would ask that this systematization goes according to MPs and delegates nominally, so in a way it would be completely transparent. And, in fact, 10 of this complete report, I think it would be useful for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to maintain its dignity and the dignity of each individual MP and delegate to put it on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly website, which, in a certain way, would actually open a new site in that segment of the work of Members and delegates, and thus actually show the seriousness of the work we are dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23461	Excuse me, Mr. Kadrić, just one second. So, for the sake of clarity, there are some initiatives here, etc., whether they can find out for the record this way – ask that your part of the question is answered, you are not satisfied with the answer. And you have some ideas about how we should be transparent about this. That's what you should do with one kind of initiative. Let's move on. Remzija Kadrić, we continue to comment on the answers to parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23462	I thank you, Chairman. So, on my parliamentary question, which I asked on 10 November 2008... and I asked it to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, 'what is the national composition and composition of the national minorities employed in the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and if there is unequivocal representation of what is planned to do', I, therefore with a certain delay, received one quite correct response from the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers. Of course, in this employment review it is quite visible, when it comes to the positions of management officials... in the General Secretariat, it is therefore evident that there is no representation of the Bosniak people in those positions, so the Bošnjak are gone at all. There is representation of Srbin, Hrvat and others, which should be welcomed in this part when it comes to other national minorities. Therefore, it is apparent that the Bošnjak are not represented, when it comes to positions in the General Secretariat, there is no representation. So it is expected that these things will be corrected in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23463	Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23464	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, although the chairman did not read and my name that I had received the answer in the meantime, means to my representative's question that I asked at the 36th session of this House, and it said, 'I ask that I be provided with the systematization and filling according to the national structure of the SIPA from the director to the last perpetrator.' 11 I have received a great answer, because it actually shows the real state and you, fellow MPs, are certainly getting, too, copies of this response. However, the state of the national structure in SIPA, especially in management jobs, is catastrophic. And here's why. Of the 15 executive posts, five are Bošnjak, three Hrvat and seven Serbian nationalities. But of the six first key positions, there is no place to be taken by Bošnjak. They have one place for Hrvat and five Srbin. I want to be troublesome here. In fact, this state of national structure at the SIPA executive posts because of the fact that the SIPA, here, has become one-national by hand, which is not well related to building trust in a police service called SIPA. I fear it does not happen as with the CIPS because of one-national lines to bring down the system and which will certainly result in huge damage to BiH, especially with regard to visa liberalisation, and colleagues from the European Integration Commission know what they asked them in Brussels at the last briefing. SIPA, unfortunately, has become a strong political lever to fight against political inexperiences, which you can read daily in the media. Namely, anonymous letters to SIPAs are written and, based on these anonymous letters, any investigations are conducted and media discredition of political insinuators is carried out in particular. This does not belong to regular tasks defined by the SIPA Act, this institution. I therefore expect the Defence and Security Commission to take care of these matters. Then SIPA should work in accordance with BiH's laws, not in line with the demands of any political leaders. I am, setting the thesis: is this the situation in SIPA related to the arrest of Mr Vuković, whom we, as President of the Commission for the Review of Citizenship in this House, and also in the House of Peoples, have given full support? We asked, if you remember the conclusions of this house, we asked the Council of Ministers to fulfil their obligations to this commission and to financially support this commission to finish its work. It is obvious that some of the political factors did not respond to the continued work of this commission, and therefore here I want to problem this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23465	Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23466	I'm sorry, I took this second part where the questions and initiatives are, so I'm gonna wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23467	Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23468	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I received an answer to the question I asked in 29.10.2008. The question was: 'What have the Council of Ministers and the 12 ministries so far done to speed up the adoption of appropriate regulations in line with European regulations and the needs of the BiH economy, primarily mining, oil and gas sectors, chemical industries and other branches affecting the lack of clear technical regulations and appropriate measures to protect the lives and health of workers and the security of property and the environment'. The response states that something has been done in part, deploying as competent ministries, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. However, I knew that fact before, but what particularly disappointed me here, it is said, 'that it is in force to take over SFRY regulations and standards that do not apply, and whose application would allow significant protection of the lives and health of workers and the security of property and the environment, which is the essence of your demands'. Now, I would like to warn this that, probably given this answer, this seems to be, in this regard, not intending to do anything and that only some great tragedy, a disaster in mining, oil and gas sectors, the chemical industry, etc. - can encourage something to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23469	Mr. Sokolović, did you, you didn't get the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23470	I didn't get an answer, and for those reasons, I asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23471	Well, you see, because I can't introduce that practice, because dozens of MPs here probably didn't get answers, and now they should. This is about comments on the answers received. We'll intervene, make an inventory and see what's going on, why you didn't get the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23472	Well, for that very reason, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23473	Well, you see, then I can give my word to anyone who didn't get the answer, Mr. Sokolović. I beg you, these are comments on the answers received.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23474	And what about this one that hasn't been able since September of the month to ask 10 questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23475	Well, you'll make an observation to the College. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23476	I just wanted to suggest that the sekretarijat re-route that letter to the competent institutions to get that answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23477	Well, of course, we'll do it. You could have done it through parliamentary questions, but not to open practice, this is a commentary on the answers received. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23478	Thank you, Chairman. I got the answer I set up for the Department of Security. And since he's wearing the code "Secret," I can't comment on the answer I got. At the same time, because I did not get Mr Silajdžić's answer, where the original document of the Dayton Agreement is, I have to give a second question and therefore ask the presidents of the BiH Constitutional Court. Since Article VI of the Constitution, which we have, in our Rules of Procedure, is specified, the Constitutional Court will protect this constitution, please provide me with an answer to the question: 'On the basis of which copy of the Constitution of BiH, indicate the date, printing, publisher, translators, and on the basis of which the decision is used, the judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH make decisions that are final and binding.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23479	This is how we concluded the comments. We're moving on to new questions. Let's take it in a row. Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23480	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, esteemed guests, there is information that in September of this month, EU representatives of BiH are seriously alerted to failures in the travel document's personalisation system. At the last interparliamentary meeting of the delegation of our Parliament and of the European Parliament, we were told that after a very successful start and best position on visa liberalisation, BiH came to the position that it was in the last group with Albania, for the reasons that the failures in our system of personalisation of travel documents were established, in translation of the abuse of home numbers, which was sometimes called the CIPS crime, and that this is the reason, therefore, that this mistrust in our system, for serious concern that the liberalisation of the visa regime in BiH could be concluded in a very tragic way, in a way that citizens suffer again the failures and mistakes and crime of certain officials in the administration. 14 I would like to point out this question dramatically, which was also the reason for yesterday's European Integration Commission meeting, which concluded that it should be asked to put this issue on the agenda at the first next session to discuss the issue. Because the Parliamentary Assembly can certainly contribute in a way that the gaps resulting from legal shortcomings can be removed. The failures due to administrative shortcomings can also be removed by our decisions, and for this reason I am presenting this opportunity, on behalf of the Commission for European Integration, the initiative to put on the first next session 'A report on the problems of implementing the Roadmap for visa liberalisation'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23481	For your information, the College is already working on it. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23482	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have two short questions. First. According to media information, there is an increasing problem with tax collection and with businesses owned by foreigners. From what could be read, companies that work a certain period do not pay taxes to the state and its owners, i.e. directors, simply leave the country. This problem contains, in my opinion, elements of the corruption of civil servants employed in the tax authorities of the state and entities. I ask: Has the Council of Ministers considered this problem and what measures are available and will something concrete be done to sanction and prevent this practice? The second issue is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Security. Currently, over 20 police officers from the Border Police, including the deputy director, have been suspended due to investigations conducted against them. However, this process has lasted more than a year for some of them, and neither the indictment nor the process is being dropped, or it is not returning to work, but it has been suspended and is sitting at home. This practice suggests that these things can be manipulated and misused without any personal responsibility, and that people are instigating a court dispute against the state and that the state is losing such disputes, because it seems that such disputes are already in motion and that people, that is, individuals are getting them and that the state is paying them as if they were working. This violates the reputation of BiH institutions, including the judiciary. I ask the Ministry of Security, "What do you intend to do to keep these things from happening?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23483	Sadik Bahtić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23484	Thank you. The first question is for the Council of Ministers: "Is the Council of Ministers planning to locate one of the newly formed state institutions in Bihac, in the centre of the UN-San canton?" I believe that Krajina and Krajisniki deserve the headquarters of one of the state institutions to be located in Bihac for the reasons that it is a practice everywhere in Europe, everywhere in the world. I am not in favour of all institutions being located in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, which leads me to the ethnic division of BiH. Here, I have information, I don't know if a decision has been made or if there's already one in Tuzla, which I welcome. So, apart from Bihac and Tuzla, and Zenica and Trebinje, everyone means bigger centers should be. That's what I'm saying for the reason, here you see now it's about this constitution, the fate of Krajina and Krajišnik decides beyond the will of Krajišnik, wants us in some enclave, wants us in the RS, but the citizens there have to wonder, all regions should be represented, as well as everywhere in the world. It means that the headquarters of state institutions should be based on a territorial principle, taking care of all major regions. And another question for the Department of Security. I think they should see that the amendments to this law are being made and complemented: who has every right to access classified information. I don't think people with dual citizenship should be allowed access to classified information. We have an example of the Vuković case and we can x such examples to have that man who has dual citizenship and has access to all classified information. I think this question should be addressed. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23485	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23486	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, to shorten these opening greetings, so you're all welcome. I welcome the initiative of two colleagues who previously asked what about the national structure in two institutions. So I've been asking the same question since the 2nd session, and today it's 45th: "What about the national structure in all institutions and agencies?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23487	What's the question, Mr. Jovičić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23488	I'm asking a question. So, I got an answer from some institutions, agencies, but now I'm asking a new question: "When will it begin to respect the correction of this imbalance in the national structure of all institutions?" So I've got answers, but no one's doing anything. 16 And of course, the other question, and I said I would ask it by the end of the term: "When will the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church return here to Sarajevo?" I hope the communists have taken away, this has no illusion with the new mayor who comes from the SDP that he's going to pay it back, because it's really a shame that the OHR here is trying to solve this, and that we can't, that our institutions can't at least return the building of the Faculty of Economics, the formerology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23489	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23490	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have today one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question. I refer the parliamentary initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers and concerns the amendment and addition of the Bilateral Agreement on Social and Health Insurance between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia, so that for the citizens of BiH and the Republic of Slovenia, a provision on adequate protection and social compensation for unemployment and job loss is introduced in the same way. This problem has been intensified by the remaining large number of BiH citizens working in Slovenia without a job. I give an explanation in writing with this question, with this initiative. The question is referred to by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Commission for Integrated Border Management of BiH: 'What can you do to amend the decision of the Croatian Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of 15 December 2008 in determining public roads that must have transit cars through the Republic of Croatia, in order to include in the list of roads for transit through the Republic of Croatia also the Karlovac road, the border crossing of Hukića Brdo – Maljevac near Velika Kladude?' To ask this question, I was initiated and asked by a letter signed by over a hundred companies from Velika Klajuda, Cazin and Buzima, which are aimed at the border crossing of Hukića Brdo – Maljevac near Velika Kladude and are directly affected by this decision. Also, I am giving a broader explanation with this question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23491	Azra Alajbegović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23492	Dear Chairman, I also have one initiative and two very short parliamentary issues. My initiative actually refers to the presence of our delegation at 120. The annual Interparliamentary Union Assembly, which will be held as of early April in Ethiopia. I believe that a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this annual assembly needs an adequate and complete way to promote the state of BiH, and that, in advance, through the international co-operation service, we agree to meetings with the delegations of EU member states in which we are awaiting ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for lobbying and faster ratification of this agreement. Then, if one of our delegation's members were to address the Interparliamentary 120th Assembly with a brief speech to ensure that the other parliamentarians of this extremely important institution in the world meet the BiH country, they would promote it on its options and its path to the EU. At the same time, I actually think that already our Joint Affairs Service should design a small pamphlet to present BiH, then to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the delegation, because it is a common practice at the annual Interparliamentary Union assemblies, in order for this delegation to fully and adequately present the country. I am saying this, first of all, because the main objective of the Interparliamentary Union is to strengthen contacts and exchange experiences among parliamentarians of all countries of the world, which is that the Interparliamentary Union is very closely connected with the UN and what the Interparliamentary Union is, in fact, a pandan in a legislative sense. At the same time, I ask the Joint College of both homes: 'What message sends to the women of BiH when there are no women in this annual assembly?' And of course, indirect message: 'What message do we send to women present at the annual Interparliamentary Union Assembly when it is known that we actually have within each assembly a binding meeting of the group of women parliamentarians within the Interparliamentary Union of the World? Does this mean that BiH does not have any women who can represent it in an adequate way, especially as we know that the secretary of this commission, or the Interparliamentary Union of BiH, is always present and logically at this annual session, and I wonder whether the College considers the Secretary of the Interparliamentary Union at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly may be a possible representative of BiH, on the one hand. On the other hand, I warn the College that there are negative points that the delegation will receive in terms of taking 10 votes in voting for resolutions at this important meeting due to the absence of a woman in the delegation." And a question to the Council of Ministers: 'When will 18 be
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23493	Time, just hurry up! AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23494	: institutionalize BiH Plant Office?' I think I managed to tell that story in three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23495	Of course, I can make a quick comment. The college, according to new criteria, self-real access and seeks to determine the number of people in the delegation within the framework of the resources available. So it's up to you to arrange the composition. Let's move on, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions and both are addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The first is the Prosecutor's Office and the second is, in particular, the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In recent times, we have been able to hear and read and learn from personal contacts that there is a certain interest in people in BiH, especially in the RS for the inert and underactive work of this state institution. I am interested, therefore: 'What are the key reasons why the BiH Prosecutor's Office has no answer, nor any comment for the public and public opinion, why are certain processes..., i.e. the files and objects that were delivered to them, not at all updated, nor are anything in them done, since they do not explain, advertise or similar?' So I'm interested in the specific Atif Dudaković case. It is also known that in 2006, a neat and protocold suit was filed against this person in the BiH Prosecutor's Office with certain material and evidence. And here, after more than two years, there's no information that's been done specifically on this case and whether anything further than the protocol and reception in the D.A.'s office has moved on that case. So, this case is particularly interested in the victims who have become victims in the activities commanded by Mr. Atif Dudaković, and I
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23497	Mr. Huskić, please sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23498	So on their behalf I ask this question and ask the Prosecutor's Office the answer 'In which phase is the case of Atif Dudaković which was delivered, or the suit which was brought against him in September 2006. the year?' 19 And the second question is addressed directly to the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. 'I seek his comment on the latest statements and comments in the public that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has not just launched a specific case, which has been properly received, for the reason that there is an influence of members of the former AID organisation, in terms of pressure and prevention of individual cases being opened and processed in the Prosecutor's Office, and in particular for cases, so there is special pressure, as it is said, for cases in which the accused persons are members of the Bosniak people? I'm looking for a comment from the Attorney General on these statements and these comments. And, of course, I expect him to answer that's not true, that's not true." In that case, I expect his answer, 'What are the further moves of the prosecution on the update and acceleration of certain items that we know have long been received and protocolsed?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23499	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23500	I have a few questions. But before I ask the first question, I would like to make some opening remarks on the matter. Namely,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23501	Is it necessary... You ask the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23502	(spend me three minutes of mine), it is not unknown that the state of corruption in BiH is worrying and that, according to grades and NGOs and some international representatives, it has already reached dramatic proportions. We have very widespread corruption and crime, in the most socially dangerous and economically harmful forms of corruption, so here we have seen in recent days that BiH is the most corrupt country in the region. About that, I'm asking the first question. In fact, about a year ago, the House of Representatives accepted my initiative to adopt, or to submit, a strategy to discuss the fight against organised crime and corruption. A year has passed, and the BiH Council of Ministers has not delivered the strategy yet, and the existing strategy, which is valid from 2006 to 2009, has expired freely. I therefore ask the question 'Why has the Council of Ministers of BiH not respected and implemented the adopted House of Representatives' Initiative of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for a year, asking this executive body to submit a proposal for a strategy to fight corruption and crime?' The issue is for the BiH Council of Ministers and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Second question 20 'What measures will the BiH Council of Ministers take towards those who have not implemented the measures outlined in the Strategy for the fight against organised crime and corruption? I am referring to the 2006 Strategy. - 2009. "years." The third issue is also for the BiH Council of Ministers. It reads, "What has the BiH Council of Ministers done specifically to help and protect BiH citizens Ilija Jurišić in the last six months?" Why am I looking in the last six months? For these almost a year and a half earlier, I have data and information and, like everyone else, I am completely disappointed with the relationship of the authorities and with Ilija Jurišić and many other BiH citizens who are uninterruptedly arrested in the region, and that the state authorities are doing nothing. So I ask these three questions and deliver them in writing, 10 seconds before the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23503	Thank you. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23504	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! There is no single economic space without the law on bond relations and the law on fundamental property and legal relations. I know that working groups, at the level of BiH, have completed their work a few years ago on drafts of these laws, and I am now asking the Council of Ministers of BiH: "When will they finally refer the draft law on bond relations and the Proposed Law on property and legal relations?" We are talking about property in BiH, these days are ongoing discussions, and the BiH state has no law on basic property-legal relations, and this law is prepared and is in conjunction with the law on bond relations in the Council of Ministers drawers. And I, apart from asking, urge and ask for it to arrive at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as soon as possible. Some things just can't take it anymore, they can't take any serious criticism. This is not about these two laws, but is it normal for us to look at the practice that two colleagues sitting in the same office here in this building – one of them has the right to maternity leave, the other is not. If he can take it any more, he simply can't handle any, not even serious criticism. Is there more, so it's not about these laws, but these laws will run processes in things that are very important to BiH, simply harmonize some things. Is it logical, say, that here we sit in this House, someone pays taxes, and someone else pays taxes, and we do the same job. I mean, these are just things that have to be done. I am therefore surprised that the Council of Ministers will not pass a law on 21 bonds in the parliamentary procedure for two years, so that we go, especially the law on property-legal relations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23505	Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23506	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! I ask the Ministry of Finance and Treasury: 'When will the new excise law come into the parliamentary procedure, since in the answers to earlier questions it has been announced that it is serious to draft a new excise law? The adoption of a new excise law was necessary several years ago, and the signing of the CEFTA Agreement and because of the economic crisis, the need to improve the Excise Act is one of the most priority measures to support the domestic economy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23507	Salko Sokolović and I still have Drago Kalabić reported. If anyone else has any intention of signing up, report it. Here you go, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, here, let me repeat what I just said. So, on a few of the questions I asked, counting from September to the last session, I didn't get answers, except, is the question from the last session when I received a direct answer from Minister Vrankić. And the question for today I am referring to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security, and it is related to the problem of SIPA (partially what Mr Mehmedović was talking about): 'Whom and on what criteria did the Stimulation Director of SIPA award incentives in the past year, I mean the SIPA employees?' Second question: 'On the basis of which advertisement did the SIPA director choose "Mitel" as the provider of mobile phone services in SIPA? So, when will the SIPA director balance the national structure of SIPA executive workers so that we don't have these problems we have?" Thank you, Chairman. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23509	drago Kalabić, and we've still got Mr. Lozančić reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23510	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers: 'What will the Council of Ministers do about the Council of the Council of Communications of 12 November last year, which pays the Director-General of the Agency 30% and is probably the largest in BiH at this point and, by some accounts, almost half the salary of the Bureau members? Is this how the Law on Salaries collapses, and are the sponsors of that agency who insisted on certain solutions – was this their motive for what is happening now in the Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23511	Here, and finally Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23512	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I will ask the question of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, respecting its independence and the right to work independently in the frameworks of the law, which define the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, but cannot be taken away from the impression that only members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of known norms and principles from all the main positions in BiH's judicial and prosecutorial institutions and entities have wiped out representatives of the Croatian people. From this point of view, I therefore ask the question: 'By the basis of which constitutional or legal or some other unknown norms or principles did the High Court of Justice and Prosecutorial Council of BiH ensure that there are no main duties in the courts and prosecutors of the state and entities without representatives of the Croatian people?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23513	Here, this is how we exhausted the parliamentary questions. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH (second reading) 23 The committee responsible submitted the report on 30 January. She supported the bill's proposal in the second commission phase. She has adopted an amendment that has become an integral part of this law. In the plenary phase, we have two amendments, namely Mr. Halilović defends two amendments. I'm opening a discussion in a long reading. Here you go, Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23515	I'll do it very briefly. I'm a member of the Transport and Communications Commission. We're in the first stage, first reading, we all supported this law, so in the first stage in the same text. I also voted against the Commission, I was, I was, so I was in favour of this law, I supported the amendment of MP Sefer Halilović, for the reason that we have practice in the environment that the blind do not pay the TV tax. It doesn't make sense to me if someone doesn't use a favor to pay for a favor; I say it... you don't take a cab, you pay for a cab, it doesn't go anywhere. I know that the financial situation in the Public TV system is very, very bad and for these reasons this commission on this point has, believe me, been having a very long, long discussion for a wide debate. My conclusion was to adopt this law and amendment, with an increase in the fee, because there is a year in the RAC already waiting for a request for an increase in tv fees. Believe me, we all advocate that we need state television, public TV service; if we sincerely want to help, the only way out is to increase the tv tax. We know that wages have been raised at all levels of the municipality, entities, cantons, states, taxes have always remained the same. Obviously, the tax cannot pay the costs of the business. You saw yesterday that situation, that union strike, and I think that this parliament should then go in that direction to increase the tv tax and introduce order into the public TV system. So, I'm outvoted, I'm going to support the Commission's position, but I think this still has a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23516	Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23517	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Transport and Communications Commission about this law in a second reading. Indeed, as you have seen in the Report, the Commission has modified two amendments which it has actually made a failure, a permeable power in this law and in other readings, since, after the debate on the Commission, it was doubtful whether this law would have been passed in the second reading on the Commission. So let me say in a few words how, what kind of a sequence of events were related to the adoption of this law. At the 24th session of the Commission, held on 26.11., the representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport pointed out that public broadcasters have consulted before the draft law and that they are not very happy, but think they will support this proposal 24 laws for human reasons. Afterwards, 1 / 1 12. In 2008, chairing the RTTV System Management Board in a letter addressed to the House of Representatives, which you have all received, proposes to Members not to support the bill's proposal and to support the concerted position of the Labour Group of the Ministry of Communications and Transport in relation to the issue of how the status of individual categories of disabled persons should be resolved in accordance with the applicable international standards where the obligation to pay a TV fee for individual categories of households is compensated from the budget and social funds, but this is not a practice, which is clearly stated and... in one analysis of the Research Centre of this Parliament. Then, at the 28th session of the Commission, held on 29. 1, the draft law has been examined and Mr. Sefer Halilović's amendment has been tabled, and then the representatives of the ministry could not provide the members of the Commission with information in which the revenues of the Public TV System will be reduced if this bill is adopted. Then, 30. 1st, the day after the meeting of the Commission, we received a written notice from the Ministry that they support Mr. Sefer Halilović's amendment. How is this defined in Croatia? In Croatia, payment of the RTV tax is regulated by the Law on Croatia's RTV while for certain categories of the population are partially or completely exempt from the obligation to pay the RTV tax on the basis of the Croatian leadership decision of February 2007. Croatia's RTV, because of that decision, collects less money, but no state or any other institution or body refunds it, or makes up for money. No persons who have lost their hearing have been freed from the payment of a RTV tax in Croatia. The decision to pay a RTV fee, as it is called in Croatia, release 100% of the blind, disabled I and II groups with 100% disability, patients treated with renal dialysis, members of the Association of Dialysed and Transplanted Kidney Patients. In Serbia, some categories of population such as the blind and the deaf and certain legal persons have been released of RTD fees in the Republic of Serbia. The issue has been regulated by the Law on Broadcasting, and freeing from the payment of RTTV fees for Serbia gets less money, but, as in Croatia, no state body or institution has considered the difference of money to RTS. By means of a law on Serbian broadcasting, the right to release from the obligation to pay a TV fee, pursuant to Article 82(1), (2) and (3), shall have households, i.e. the owners of a receiver whose member means a disability of 100% physical impairment, then a disabled person with less than 100% physical damage if, in accordance with the provisions of specific regulations, he is granted the right to add to other people's care and assistance and a person who has permanently lost his hearing or a blind person. So there's a pretty much one color here. We are due to the current difficult financial situation in the RTV service, BHRT, or Federal TV, as a second service, we resorted to a medium solution, in fact that the Council of Ministers at least fulfils what we as a Dom owed, which is paying a satellite fee. They don't do it today, unfortunately. We don't have the mechanisms to force them. We have therefore resorted to this decision that the Council of Ministers is planning in budgetary means compensation for this amount, which would possibly be denied by the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23518	Mr. Sokolović, would you like a replica? For what? Who? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23519	Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23521	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23522	What does that mean? Sign in, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23523	In his presentation, Mr Bahtić said that here would be one of the moves that would save the financial construction of the RTV system as well as an increase in the tax. I don't think at this point it's good to do. One analysis should be made of the situation when it comes to paying taxes. We've had this in these previous reports, I don't know it right now, but it seems to me to be somewhere around...% moving in the Federation space, 30% or 40% in RS space. What does a tax increase mean? It means they would re-burden the conscientious citizens of BiH, those who meet their obligations. I think it is wiser for those who need to worry about the billing of TV fees to find these remaining percentages of BiH citizens who do not pay a subscription or find a certain way to consent, is it, or make them pay a subscription. And when we have these indicators and we see finally one financial structure provided in such a way, then we can talk about some other species and, among other things, about the increase in the RTV subscription, because at this point, it would certainly damage those who are BiH's conscious citizens and want to settle their obligations on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23524	Let me help you. This law does not deal with the increase in tax, it deals with the possible exemption from a tax of one number of persons, so that we do not waste time. We've had demands to raise the fee. There was an opportunity to discuss it. Mr. Bahtić, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23525	I'll do it for both of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23526	Is it a replica, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23527	Yes, it is, a replica, of course. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23528	Who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23529	It's a replica and a Šemsi, and now Salku.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23530	Here you go, both Šemsi and Salko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23531	First, Šemsi. Šemso says the Council of Ministers, we know that we are, it's been passed, that the Council of Ministers won't do anything. This house has concluded that the Council of Ministers pays satalitely, so it will not pay, let alone the Council of Ministers in Budget plans them. That's not gonna happen. So it's just beyond itself. And as for the increase in taxes, I know it's not in the law. But, I mean, the salaries are gone, the revenues are increasing at all levels and it's even shown, the board of directors has been running an analysis and when it's done, when it's all done... it can't settle these costs. I know the situation is very difficult, so if we want service, then we have to deal with it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23532	Mirko Okolić was reported for the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, means of information, international organisations, dear guests, here, you see, when we need to do something in this country and for a particular population, which deserves it, then we are trying to figure out how not to do it. I support this by not finding the right calculation of how much less funds it is for TV than picking up a TV subscription if we release this population, and we should have done this team before it was proposed that the Council of Ministers refund it. My proposal is that we should not refund the Council of Ministers and that it should not stand in the law, because we do not know that amount and we do not have a certain opinion on it. And it certainly needs to be supported by this proposal that these persons and these categories, respecting what has been proposed by the amendment, are freed from the payments of the TV fee and I don't think that this will endanger the work and business of the Public TV System, or anyone in this country and entities, but we'll probably put them at risk by some other business that hasn't been brought to an end. We don't need to get away with this, and we need to back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23534	Mr. Bešlagić. Is it a replica? 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23535	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23536	Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23537	Mr. Bahtić and Mr. Okolić. Be careful, the Commission has indeed found itself in a dilemma. Discussing the situation in the RTV service of BiH, we found that it was an extremely difficult situation and, as you know, we have proposed the conclusions that should have entered into the Budget of the state institutions 10 million for the digitisation of TV, so it was broken out. On the other hand, there were suggestions here to increase the tax, but I would ask you, because this is not a taxi law, but this is a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System and if there is an analysis that will show how much television should be increased, it should come in another form. And when it comes to these things, about the blind, let's say, about the persons proposed by the amendment Mr. Sefer Halilović, about deaf people, we discussed it the following way. For one simple reason, to explain ourselves, it's more of a social issue. The BiH state has no, no institutions dealing with the social issue, they are at entity level. And that's why we said that the situation wouldn't get worse in television, then we suggested supplementing, or amendment,... as Mr. Šemso said, that it meant to accept this amendment for the blind, while noting that it was necessary, whoever passed this law, that it was necessary and to provide the difference of funds so that the situation on television would not further deteriorate. When it comes to blind people, deaf people, television, all television, and entity and state television have a deaf person's program and have titled films and titled documentation series that would be based on it. However, if it is considered necessary to go with this category, then it should be transferred precisely to lower institutions that have social funds, which can support these things. Therefore, the Commission's proposal, adopted by five, is one thing that seems to me to be the unity of the Commission. And as for the tax Mr. Bahtić is talking about, I think she deserves a completely different discussion than this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23538	Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23539	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here is the easiest place to support this bill and join all those who care for the weak, deaf, socially threatened, etc., because any other thinking now on this topic turns out to be harsh, it turns out to be an indicator of carelessness for such categories etc. I must say that this 28 bill, a proposal to amend and supplement this law, is the highlight of the demagogy of our Council of Ministers. So, I wish they had really offered good solutions to solve the Public TV service and system, that every month, two, three days we don't have to deal with it here. And this, obviously, is the intention of getting in touch with a group of people that they can take care of and need to worry about. But I mean not in this way, especially by not proposing a law that is entirely contrary to the principles of the basic law that is changing. Personally, it doesn't make sense for me that any citizen in BiH is paying taxes, taxes, taxes, whatever you want, on the possession of a radio or television receiver. Our law is just like that. He foresees another tax which is not called a tax on the possession of a radio and television receiver, as probably something that is a great luxury and which needs to be taxed. And now the Council of Ministers proposes that one category of citizens of this country be free from payment of a subscription that does not exist at all. So, in law, we don't have a defined subscription to watch radio-television programs, but we have a tax on the possession of appliances. The very fact that someone owns, which I say again, is absolutely not logical to me, and I would like the Council of Ministers and the legislator to deal with it and to really predict a law that is logical, so that we can explain to people that even those who do not see the program by their own eyes, because they do not have a signal from any of our public broadcasters, are not free from paying a subscription, even though they have no chance to hear or to see a program broadcast, but, unfortunately, they have television apparatus as a high luxury in this country and therefore they have to pay taxes every month to this country. So I won't be against the proposal of this law, not to realize that I am against these categories of persons being released from paying this illogical tax, but here's a proposal of this kind of law, I want to use it to call on the Council of Ministers to propose a correct and logical law that will actually enable the operation of the Public TV Service and the functioning of the Public TV System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23540	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23541	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, here we are, by who knows which time of one good idea we have politicized things and brought them into another context. We were all probably in agreement at the beginning to support this idea, but in its final form it got something else that was very difficult to support at this point. Funding from the Budget of the Public Service has, you well know, always been problematic and as such raises the question and we have said here that it challenges his independence. In this way it is trying again and the Commission has politicised this issue, instead of watching it specifically, it has tried to solve some things in light of the whole public service situation, which it has failed to resolve before, but this time at a small door. For us, the disputed funding from the Budget is, it conflicts with the basic principles of media independence. And here, when we decided to support this law, to be honest, and from a humanitarian point of view, if someone doesn't consume something to pay for, we do, and it's known for what reasons they can't do it, 29 especially in this situation, that no one should pay for it. So no one should pay for it, because that means still, especially when we connect to what Mr. Lozančić was talking about, then it's getting a little absurd. Different sources of funding are being sought, different ways of helping the Public Service, but no one wants to comment on how he came into this situation and what about the situation itself, the number of employees, reforms and all but simply one bag with no bottom is looking for additional burdens for BiH citizens to continue to pay, and apparently this parliament did not have the power to see the situation realistically in the area and to make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23542	I apologize, I missed, Mr. Suljkanović, just one moment. I have failed to inform you that Minister Božo Ljubić has informed me, or Parliament, that a number of ministerial assistants are present at today's session next to him. I hope that he will also be present on these issues, so on the agenda points where the Ministry of Transport and Communication is in some way a processor and a promoter. So, in this part of the agenda, we have the ministerial assistants present, so if you need questions, etc. Here you go, Mr. Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23543	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I speak here as a member of the Commission and it was very simple to adopt the proposal, to make a populist decision, because there is also a lot of justification for it. On the Commission, I must say, we did not really politicise this problem at all, but we were obliged to take into account the position of the Management Board of the Public TV Service which was against such a proposal, providing information on the amount of the cost of the loss of the subscription to be caused by the adoption of this law. So we tried simply, not politicizing, to get together and we made these amendments. We adopted them, and we believe that we have done well, that is, to reduce the possibility of abuse and by adding that only persons who have lost their sight and who live with a single guardian are being released. What we've transferred to the Council of Ministers, I don't know how happy the solution is, but we've adopted it most of the votes, and we think that such a single solution would be better than a solution that would transfer all the burden to the public TV system. When it came to people who had lost their hearing, there were also shared opinions, there was a discussion about not knowing what number it was and waiting for a statement from the resolution ministry. As far as I've been informed, such a statement has come here to support this proposal to include in the said law on the exemption from the payment of the tv tax in the hearing loss. So once again, I point out that there was really no intention of politicizing here. The easiest option in everything, in which the members of the Commission are fully agreed, was to act populistly and simply adopt these proposals. But we also know that very quickly the Commission will come to us on the agenda to question the situation in the Public TV System and, among other things, 30 will be on the wallpaper and those losses that will result from such a decision that we could make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23544	Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for a little while. I thank, of course, all those who have supported these two amendments, because they are finally deeply human. Not to mention their social and humane category, and I urge the MPs to adopt these two amendments, because they release those people who are really unable to fully or partially monitor TV transmissions. And so this is one human dimension, and I urge the MPs to adopt this. It is a whole second issue of a complex reform of the Public TV Service, because I think that as serious politicians, we should take this issue seriously. First, let's make sure that everyone in good health pays a RTV tax, and then very seriously enter into the very reform of this system, see how much that's doing there, what it does, who's making losses, who's making good programs, etc. To ensure what we are constantly talking about here and national equality and representation, both in the number of employees and in the equality of language and everything else that belongs to the domain of the Public TV Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23546	Drago Kalabić, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23547	Mr. Suljkanović, because this can't be a populist question. If we do something to people that is humanitarian and social, then you can't make it a populist measure, like we're doing them any favors. We're not doing them any favors. People who can't watch TV, we're doing one logical thing that has a social and humanitarian aspect. So I don't think anyone's been going there and that if it brings such a measure, it's a populist measure. Unfortunately, politicization came after we realized that we should bring it in, and as we now think about how we would take their money but in a special way. Eh, I think that's incorrect. These people are taxpayers in some other way. They're putting money into the budget on other grounds and we're going to take that same money from the budget now. I don't think it's true. So I don't even think the promoter had any populist demands. He saw one bit of a illogical thing and a little bit of an incorrect thing that we, I had, I thought we'd end up without a big debate and then it's said, added this second, politicization. The least the Commission should have received was the Council of Ministers' position on how to enter. We know that Budget was brought in, I don't know the rest, the Ministry of Finance's opinion, etc., which was probably supposed to be 31, but I think we should have stayed on that first position to end it the way the proposer suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23548	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23549	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, here, I'm just trying to figure out how we masters are to cook some things and share them in such a partial way that you don't have a solution. We have the law, and we passed that law, and that's when these people, who were damaged, were the subject and most likely someone was supposed to see them. And then there were messengers sitting but they didn't suggest. If we break the law now, the question is, how are we going to help these people? Here, we have a budget item from which items to remove these funds. That's my question, logically. Secondly, I don't know what means. If those funds are small and presented, it should be voted for. Let's say it's from a humanitarian character. From a principled and professional character, if it's a big asset, where do you get them off from? And on the other hand, we're leaving some other categories of people behind. If we consider that we have taxed them with 17% of VAT, so absolutely not looking at sentimentality, these same MPs voted for 17% of VAT and did not leave the possibility, and they said no problem, we, when we collect that money, will properly deploy them, and these people should be through social institutions, through medical help, finish the story and they pay it, and there is no need to show sentimentality in this way at all. That's the problem. And now there's one more question -- what kind of masters are we? So, how many more deaf people are going to show up, how many doctors are going to issue soon, 50-100 marks, and then we're going to make internal expenses even more unseen, and then we're going to quickly pass the law and see that it's a big number and change and we're going to screw these people up. I really don't see why we go in like this and then ask the Commission and people: if you don't vote, you're not human, you have no idea of life, and then these people meet you and they say, "Stop, where you are, what pay you have, what you do, and you won't release me from some 5 marks." I'm really asking my colleagues in the future to try to get serious about some things. If we've passed some law, then think about it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23550	Sadik Ahmetović. We'll take a break at 2:00. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23551	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to, for a while, but to help in thinking about making this decision. So I join all those who express the need to solve these issues, and we also don't fall into the story that tomorrow we have more deaf than we have objectively. And the truth is, too, that television has pictures and tones. If we release at the same time, so the blind cannot see the picture, and the deaf cannot hear the tone, so there is a logic that these two categories are freed, but they must also get better into the analysis, whether with associations, social work centres or some other institutions that have good records in this area, to see to which degree of hearing damage is released from the payment of the subscription. The second thing, therefore, should also be included in the analysis of whether aid to deaf people is greater or more helpful if we provide at least information emissions on TV, at least to the Public Service in BiH, have a sign language translation, so that deaf people can understand or be informed from those areas from which they should be informed, like all other citizens in BiH. These are some dilemmas that I have, and so I'd like to keep that in mind when we adopt these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23552	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on inland and maritime navigation (first reading) The opinion on the principles was delivered by the committee in charge on 16 January 2009. Most of the votes supported the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on free legal aid (first reading) 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23555	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, only briefly on behalf of the Constitutional Commission. We have practically unanimously supported the principles of this law on the Constitutional Legal Commission. You know, we once had this law in parliamentary procedure. There have been some problems. He did not pass and the moment came again to see him in the parliamentary procedure in the first reading. This is a very important law for BiH, to fulfil its obligations on the European path and, in addition, within BiH, it is very important to regulate this free legal assistance in civil matters in an identical way or at least at the level of principles in BiH and it does this law the way it did. I call on all colleagues to support the law, or its principles, so that we can go to the next stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23556	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23557	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, as this law puts it, 'Free Legal Assistance Law' is part of the reform of BiH's legal system on the way to adopting European standards in this area. The law on free legal aid has its own social dimension, given our reality and reality that a large number of citizens of this country have been denied for the consumption of rights and often justice, just because they have no money to pay legal advice and expensive legal representation services. Given this, this law is for me and one of the most important laws in the field of protection of guaranteed human rights. Since this is the first reading that sets out the principles on which the law rests, I would like to draw further attention to the financial aspect of this law. We are witnessing that in this country, in the previous period, we have passed not a small number of laws in which the adoption is neglected, or it is neglected how much financial resources are needed for the implementation of the law, as well as from which sources it provides funds, etc. So we have a situation that we have passed laws that due to the enormously necessary financial resources we cannot implement, because they cannot provide the necessary resources in the budgets, and then, of course, it causes a lot of social and legal and other consequences. This law falls within the order of a law whose realisation requires significant resources, and we live in a time of financial crisis and recession when the funds are increasingly difficult to provide. It should also be borne in mind that the funds necessary for the implementation of this law have the character of public spending. I must commend the legislator that he has devoted, truth, significant attention to the financial aspect of the law, which is, unfortunately, a very rare case in our practice. In the first year of the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Proposer made an account to cost more than 5 million KM. Although the calculation is broadly elaborated, I think it's unrealistically small. If the experience of Brcko District is taken, it is obvious that funds are needed, even in the first year of law enforcement at least ten times higher, and at the full stage of exploitation the law must be difficult between 150 and 200 million KM. This should also include the synergetic effects of increased activities of the judiciary institutions where free legal aid will certainly increase the number of cases in the judiciary and in the state administration. I am not saying this to show any reservations against the need and justification for the 'Free Legal Assistance Act' being passed, because I have no reserves here, but to warn of negative experiences when we pass a law that we are unable to implement and then we are making an additional mistake and we are causing the dissatisfaction of citizens to whom we first give certain rights, and then we are denying them. We have examples of this in the Law on the Rights of Demobilized Defendors, in the Law on Defence Supplemental Rights, the Law on the Rights of Civil Victims of War, etc. I don't think we've learned any lessons from the experience in the problems of applying those laws and others, and I'm afraid we're misleading these people. When I say this, I think that in this law are inaccurately defined terms, ‘faces of poor property, and ‘the property status of users of free legal aid’, and I also think that broadly defined forms of achieving free legal assistance would envy us and far more developed countries than BiH. I am of the opinion that we should stop the practice of law-making for the sake of order. We need to pass laws with the intention of applying them, i.e. to ensure that conditions apply before their adoption and entry into force. I will make more concrete proposals in the amendment phase, and these were my principles, given that it is a sensitive law which, on the one hand, encroachs on human rights, and, on the other hand, has very significant financial implications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23558	Mr. Dolić, don't be afraid for a while. Maybe you won't have a reason. Maybe the law won't pass. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23559	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think it would be common when laws are proposed, at least in the first reading, to propose several introductory sentences, so that we can know the motives and reasons for the proposed legal projects. 35 The reason I'm saying this is also the previous item of the agenda where it should be explained. But since no one answered for the discussion, I didn't think anything was necessary about that law to say, and our position, the position of the SNSD party, you'll see when you vote. However, some MPs have come forward about this law and we must, of course, report to say our views on this law. Namely, this is the same law we had in 2007. And let me remind you that then, just because the law did not bear the name ‘Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance in Civil Matters’, that law was not passed. And he's in the same text he proposed today. However, circumstances have changed in many ways now than they were in 2007. Let me remind you, in 2008, the RS adopted its Law on Legal Assistance and was formed and so on. The Centre for Free Legal Assistance. I have information that such laws are passed in Brcko District, so only the Federation in BiH remains to pass the same law. Of course, according to the BiH Constitution, competences concerning the regulation of inter-entity disputes or international disputes are in BiH's jurisdiction, and this law according to the BiH Constitution should only concern issues in free legal aid before the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So, this law should either be returned or withdrawn by the applicant and, in relation to these guidelines, propose a law concerning only BiH's jurisdiction in legal matters, will provide the costs for these matters in the budget of BiH. As you know, we have already adopted Budget, in this budget the funds of the Court of Justice of BiH have been reduced. Therefore, they are immediately reduced in this situation, and based on these new circumstances, we are not prepared to support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23560	Look, Mr. Dolić, it's all right. Let's move on. I warn representatives of the Council of Ministers who never sign up when they come here for opening remarks. I have no intention of calling anyone. They want to be observers here, I don't mind. The Minister, of course, is gone again, but here comes Deputy Minister, Mr Srđan Arnaut, Deputy Minister of Justice. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23561	I'm sorry, we don't have the technical ability to sign up, we have to wave. I'm glad to see everything, so let me just try to say a few words. So, the BiH Constitution guarantees the right to a fair hearing in civil and criminal cases, and the judicial reform has also raised much broader questions about the right to legal aid. And Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights requires that the defendant's legal assistance be provided free of charge unless he is able to pay for legal aid himself and when the interests of justice require it. Therefore, the fact is that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, offered the Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance, and the fact is that the content of this law is not in fact 36 disputed in '97. The fact is, too, that the Brcko District has formed the Office for Free Legal Assistance, that in some cantons, I would mention there's also a Women's-Dobo canton, there's a Office for Free Legal Assistance, and that, according to what we have, it's a lot of money to pay for lawyers who are due and paid from the Budget in free legal aid in criminal matters, where the law provides mandatory defence. So, this law has no ambition to replace the laws of the Brcko District, neither in the RS, nor laws in the cantons or in the Federation, but it is aimed at equating the principles of providing free legal assistance and, unlike this law that we had in '97, we gave up the Legal Assistance Centre at the state level, we took it as an obligation of the Justice Ministry and we believe that, within this budget, we can carry out this kind of activity this year. What is also very important is that we have provided for institutional governance to be through the Committee on the Management of Legal Assistance appointed by this Parliament and that supervision of law enforcement is also within the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly. So this is one of the obligations that we have under the conventions and this is not the issue of legal aid only by the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23562	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. It's going to point six.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23563	He's got Denis' replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23564	No one checked in. Well, there is now, there is now. I'm really closing the argument. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Law of Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Law delivered on 9 January. We have an opinion on the constitutional basis, delivered on January 30th. A valid constitutional basis has been established. Most of the votes are supported by the principles of the law. In the Commission's opinion, it is proposed to the House to adopt, among other things, and to conclude that an expert public debate is being held on this proposal. So, I'm opening a debate. Slavko Jovičić and Šefik Džaferović applied. 37 Slavko Jovičić. Oh, is there a need from the Ministry of Introductory Notices? I'm not asking, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23566	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23567	So sign in, raise your hand. You'd like some opening notes, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23568	Dear MPs, the reasons for the adoption of the "Law on Lawyerry" stem from BiH's obligation to ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, in order to allow such rights to be exercised before courts and state authorities. The exercise of such rights requires the existence of advocacy as an independent and public professional service responsible for ensuring the legal protection of parties against courts and other state bodies. So, BiH's obligation is to regulate important professional and public legal services as part of the legislative reform on the way to Eurointegration. After the establishment, the Bar is obliged to apply for accession to the membership of the Council of Bar Associations and Legal Associations of Europe, and to meet the necessary conditions for that membership. Without a doubt, this law is significant from the aspect of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement at further stages of integration, but should be seen in the context of obtaining final EU membership. The law on BiH's lawyership regulates the organisation and position of the Bar Association, as an independent and independent activity of members of the association that ensure legal assistance to domestic natural and legal persons in the achievement of the protection of their rights, obligations and legal interests. The law regulates the independence and independence of attorneys, the jurisdiction of lawyers, the obligation to respect the Code of Legal Ethics, the attorney's secret, the right to choose lawyers, to provide legal assistance. This law established the BiH Bar Association, established its bodies, regulated the organisation, membership and bodies of the BiH Bar Association. The bar itself adopts its general acts, such as the Statute, the Code of Legal Ethics, the Rules of Disciplinary Responsibility, the Rules of Law and other acts. The ministry of justice would monitor the work of lawyers from the point of view of implementing this law, and may request appropriate reports and data on BiH's Bar Association. Public consultations were carried out on the law itself. The text of the law was on the Justice Ministry's website and was particularly delivered to the entity's justice ministries, the district, was also delivered to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the entity's legal chambers, and certain suggestions were incorporated into the text of the law. Finally, it is necessary to say that the implementation of this law does not require additional funds in the budget of the BiH institutions. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23569	Thank the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Arnaut, for the helpful opening remarks. I have registered Šefik Džaferović and Jovičić. So, here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23570	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the brief explanation of the Deputy Minister would all be so fine if it weren't for one other thing. In fact, it is a similar matter, as Mr. Živković just said, of the previous bill. Because not only when this law is concerned with the following laws, when it comes to several days or maybe ten days, such information has already been published in the media and carried out, under alleged signs, pressure on RS lawmakers, as it has been announced that MPs from the RS, particularly from the SNSD, will shoot down 85% of the proposed laws at the session of this parliament. I don't know who's going to make that number and the percentage, but back to the bill. We heard, I say, in the explanation of the Deputy Minister that they have consulted the legal chambers of the entity. I have a conflicting request from the RS bar where they explicitly demand that the law not be adopted at BiH level, and the reasons are the following. So, not only, I repeat, with this law but with others, under the supposed signs, we could swallow the law if it bears the name framework law, but if it has such content, it can really get from us support for more reasons. The second thing, I don't really know what that is and who all of this is proposing laws for which, and those who propose, know that they can't get support. We have not yet entered constitutional reform, nor have the Constitution changed. Such a constitution does not allow such an opportunity to transfer competence from the RS bar to BiH level. That's why it's not possible for him to get support. The second thing, I really don't know, and I'm not looking here right now, it's been carried out, we've heard this debate, and we've, we've, I've personally got a lobby of several hundred pages where it's all explained why this shouldn't be accepted at BiH level. If these laws and legal proposals are a condition for meeting the criteria on the way to the EU, let's agree on that and put all these legal projects in the process, but not like this ad hoc, when someone's intention falls, just make a legislative proposal, so if it doesn't pass in Parliament, the duty-holder will be MPs from the RS, especially from the SNSD, as they are against this and that and they do not make progress in BiH in the EU. That, first of all, is not true, that's not true. So, let me finish. The express request of the RS bar is to us MPs, from the SNSD in particular, I do not know if colleagues have received from other parties, that this law is not accepted at BiH level, with such content. That's why I'm proposing that this law withdraw and establish some kind of contact and try to harmonize the differences that are obvious. With such differences, which have entered the bill itself, he cannot get 39 support. That's why I don't think we're wasting our time on such proposals, because the law, as the deputy minister explained, that it will all be settled at BiH level, and then it will go towards the EU, is not so. Because there he foresees jurisdiction, he needs to see, and that is the key -- whether these are the powers for the BiH Court, where they express their fundamental suspicion that they will never come into a position to defend someone at the BiH Court, but rather remain, as they would say, those tails by the basic prosecutions and courts will report there and carry out their activities and jobs. Therefore, I pray and plead, and I have done so before, do not propose laws that you know you are not in the previous phase, which was very important, to get support from those associations that are interested in these laws. And in this case, the most important is the Law Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, and I repeat, which specifically requires that we do not accept this. That's why the amendment phase is not going to contribute, because it wasn't in advance when it was meant for concerted attitudes and huge reflections when this law was found here in, what was previously called, in advance or in our first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23571	One brief comment. I, of course, respect your right to determine anything and respect it, that authority of the chamber, etc., but I only want a brief comment. We asked, this Parliament asked, the public asked us for more efficiency, productivity, laws, we made pressure. So, the Council of Ministers simply reacted and delivered the laws and they came here in a regular procedure. Your right is whether you accept them or not. Because if our laws don't come here and we can't talk about them, there's no reason why we're sitting here at all. Here's the thing. We have, first of all, an incorrect quote by Živković. Does anyone else have an incorrect quote? These are the rest of the replicas. Živković, incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23572	Thank you. We from the SNSD here did not come to swallow anything, nor that this law is called framework law, nor did we come to carry out any instructions that come from the Law Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia and that is ultimate, but we have come to talk about the principles and constitutional basis of this law. Even the High Representative who imposed the Law on Lawyerry in 2002 imposed it on the entity level. At that time, the High Representative knew that this could not be imposed at BiH level, at entity level, and thus set the constitutional basis for this law, which does not exist here. To be serious about the bill's proposal, he should have said: the constitutional basis of this law, with whom and when agreed by the competent entity institutions regarding the proposal of this law and the experts' proposals regarding this law, as well as whether this law has the mark of European integration, or whether it is a condition for BiH's EU accession. 40 Since all of what I have stated is negative, we have no reason to talk this way about this law or anything to swallow.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23573	I have a request from the Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23574	Well, I have to say that we also delivered the law to the Slovenian bar and to the ministries in entities, the Federation's Bar Association and that although it was a few months ago, we didn't get any answers. So, I've been found that Mr. Jovičić has got 100 pages of elaborate why this law is not good. But it shouldn't put us in a position to uphold the law for months, not to have any reaction, that, at the moment we send the law into parliamentary procedure, we actually get that something is wrong right now. You can check it out, we can deliver it to you when we sent the law to the RS bar and check why they never answered the Justice Department. What are you asking us to do now? To withdraw the law because you here said there was opposition to the bar. So, please, we can wait sometimes for months, we can mention the bond law, here we wait for months of consent or not waiting. So, from the RS, we didn't get any reaction. The law passed by the Council of Ministers, the law lies before you. In the principles of the BiH Bar Association – in fact, there are two legal chambers, the RS and the Federation – the BiH Bar Association must exist if it wants to join the Association of Bars in Europe. On the other hand, if we want to be a member of the EU one day, then there must be a single organisation, because this is an individual business and foreign lawyers will have to come here and domestic lawyers will go abroad, so these are just assumptions. Whether the time has matured today or tomorrow, I don't know, but I would pray, when we are already conducting consultations, when we are obliged to conduct public consultations, when we have implemented all these laws, that we should say what we have received in our consultations. We didn't get anything from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23575	Živković, a replica to the presentation of the deputy minister. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here's a man will, the replica wants a man not to miss anything right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23577	Thank you. Replication is to be presented to the esteemed assistant minister. In other words, I asked: except for the preamble to this law, Article IV (a) of the Constitution of BiH, which is a well-known general provision for the adoption of the law of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is the provision of the Constitution which gives you the right to propose this law and to have a constitutional basis, to give me this. And to give me 41 official institutions, I have said entity institutions, meaning the National Assembly, a government that, according to that provision -- and I think a provision should be introduced regarding the transfer of jurisdiction -- gives consent to the drafting of this law. I was talking about these institutions when I asked which institutions were consulted or consulted on the drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23578	I'm sorry, I apologize to the applicants. So here's the deal. I've got a line of lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23579	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23580	Here, what did you want?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23581	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23582	Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23583	So don't give me any reprehension. You should give us an example of how it is done, not using the opportunity you are sitting at the table to give yourself a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23584	Okay, I accept the objection. Here's a chance for everyone. So let's take it in a row. Mr. Denise Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23585	I want to say that if we are in this way as we have now heard about the adoption of this law on BiH law, but also the adoption of other state laws, and if this is explained by the fact that we have this law in the RS, in the Federation of BiH, in the District, etc., that, if we do so, I think we will do nothing. I think that this is an extremely wrong approach, and if we continue to do this, this country will not enter the EU in 100 years. Just imagine that these countries that are now EU members in this and a series of other laws, this is not the first time, explain this by saying that it is in some lower territorial form in that country? Well, that would be funny in those states. We here need to make it very clear. The EU partner will not be cantons or entities, the EU partner will be the BiH state and this country must determine whether to implement a Stabilisation and Association Agreement or not, whether it will pass laws or not. I must say, someone here has said that, allegedly, and that is true, we have not adopted a new BiH constitution, but we have signed a 42nd Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Who has read this agreement very clearly sees what this country must do to move forward and to win today, tomorrow, candidate status. I think that, indeed, we can no longer allow ourselves in the BiH Parliament the luxury of treating the laws that we need to adopt at the state level. First of all, because of the fact that we're already late with a dozen laws that we should have passed. So through this law we need to publicly ask the question here now - are we going to implement a Stabilisation and Association Agreement or not, are we going to pass the laws that the EU requires of this country or not? If this is a practice and this is a way of obstructing everything, let's say it publicly and disband this Parliament? Then he doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23586	All you had to do was tell who the replica was, whose exposure it was to. So, Sadik Ahmetović. Who's the replica, whose exposure?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23587	Mr. Jovičić, a colleague, replicas his exposure in terms of who is proposing laws that can't pass. If memory serves me well, the last party he came from and the chairman of the Council of Ministers is Mr Nikola Špirić. And if you see a memo saying it's from the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, you'll see it's a Council of Ministers law. You need to adjust those attitudes a little bit. I'm not surprised by this rejection when I saw Mr. Čizmadžić sign it. I'm not surprised why this is the story if you take Mr. Čizmadžić and his role in BiH for the past 15 years, but I'm also surprised why he faces such opposition from the law signed by the SNSD chairman of the Council of Ministers. So we have a problem here, so good guys and bad guys. This story about Bosnia, about European integration, about the Agreement, and here, so there is, I'm afraid there is some agreement: I will speak well, and you here refuse... all that, all that will stop BiH and its entry into...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23588	Mirko Okolić, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23589	Deputy Minister. Here, you see, I've been preparing the agenda for certain consultations to see what kind of opinion I'm going to take and how I'm going to present some things about this law. And right away, let me say that I have not received any explicit or explicit opinion from anyone, at least from the RS Bar of Lawyers, nor does that explicitly oblige me, nor will I ever, when it is explicitly respected. Which is why I'm surprised that Mr. Slavko and the SNSD guys, because he said everyone got their opinion and respected it explicitly. But I have, in preparation for this item of the agenda, consulted many about this law, including the Law Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, 43 where they did not give an explicit opinion and an explicit request, but gave their particular opinion on this law, on the basis of which I am agreeing their opinions and yet some other relevant factors brought the Court of Justice not to vote on this law. And it is not necessary to vote because the entry into the transfer of competence from the RS entity is at the level of BiH institutions. And that's why we won't support this law today. So it's not on any express request of any party chamber or anyone, it's an explicit request of my own. Next, Assistant Minister, Deputy Minister to tell. We want and need to move towards the EU's approach but we cannot possibly go to the heart of the constitutional violation, by transferring certain powers from the RS entity or any other entity to BiH institutions. So, we need to move closer as the Constitution has said or some other... things or to agree on what is possible to do, without getting in the jurisdiction of anyone or that what we want to do again and if there are some controversial things under the Constitution that we can sit down and... that's what we're saying is what we want to do in order to make BiH and its entities and its citizens progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23590	Adem Huskić, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23591	Thank you. Here, I'm replicating some of the attitudes expressed by my colleague Jovičić, but not just him. First, let me say that as an MP, it is unacceptable for me to act in accordance with the opinion of any NGO and that any NGO can appear here as a powerful authority to stop any law, even if it is also a law firm of the RS. I would just like to remind my colleagues that we on the Constitutional Commission, on January 30th, had 11 laws in the first reading that are on the agenda today and all these laws have been passed. Some with a simple majority, some with a unanimous. One of those laws that has been unanimously adopted is the previous law that exists now, whether it's likely to collapse. The largest number, in my opinion, of these laws is directly related to BiH's European path. And if we're all sworn to a European path, then I don't think we should pretend and ask questions where the constitutional basis for adoption is. In addition, the constitutional basis is Article IV point 4. Therefore, one is sufficient and two members of the Constitution should not be listed which would allow the law to be passed. I think this has nothing to do with the blockade, so it has nothing to do with the transfer of power, the transfer of the RS authorities, or any entity. This is an NGO, and I don't know why RS is derrogated in this way. So there is, in my opinion, nothing to do with the transfer of any power to the RS authorities, but it has to do with the blockade of the European pathway. And it's not just on this... and then these laws, but a kind of blockade is going on here for a few months on some other laws, from the area of security, border surveillance, etc. And I think there's a very incorrect abuse of entity voting here, and that's the essence of what I wanted to say. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23592	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23593	Well, I can't. Mr. Džaferović, let me run the session. I'm trying.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23594	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23595	Well, take your word for it. Please take your word for it, don't throw it away. Please, please wait. So tell me whose exposure, what's the replica, and that's all you're saying. We have three people reported for discussion, don't speak, you abuse everyone, more or less. Here, five sentences, and you don't answer like that. Sign up and discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23596	To tell you the truth, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to replicate to all those who said this was a loss, yes, for the chamber, the RS bar. Every project is a project that has a so-called project. cost effective and cost benefit. It means what's useful and what's good for a project like this. I think one project like this would only bring profits to the RS's bar of attorney and the Federation's bar of attorney. Why? Because he would join the law chambers, on the one hand, and because BiH's Bar Association would become a partner to the lawyer chambers of neighbouring countries and EU countries in representing their clients before domestic and international courts. I would also like to present here an experience of professional associations in health care, in medicine, where people for years could not use any benefits, or any EU projects, because there was a lack of understanding of the association of professional bodies in health between the Federation and the RS. My colleague Živković is a doctor of medicine. He can see it with his gynecologists that in fact we can't appear anywhere as entity associations, as legal chambers, as entities only, as associations, as BiH's Bar of Lawyers and as such, we actually get one full capacity to do our jobs adequately. In this situation, it would be lawyers, whether it's a RS lawyer or a Federation of BiH lawyer. So Mr. Huskić took part in this discussion of mine, this replica of mine. I apologize if it was part of the discussion and, to be honest, half of the things I said I'd skip, but I'm responsible for saying that you can't be a partner to anyone if you're a member of an entity chamber or an entity association. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23597	So, I ask you once again, this was a discussion, so why don't you sign up for the discussion. Well, please, why don't you sign up for the discussion, wait quietly for your turn, etc. You all know what a replica is. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23598	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I apologize to you for intervening from the scene. I could've just said business intervention and not provoked you to tell me what you said. I was going to say, so this doesn't make any sense anymore. People have applied for discussion and are waiting, and through replicas there is a complete discussion that is three minutes and that is the only difference. But that's not the only difference. The replica should be called upon to a concrete allegation of someone's discussion and to challenge it for a maximum of up to three minutes. And, please, help us to introduce order, so that people under... replicas do not discuss, and people who have applied for discussions await and lose the meaning of this discussion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23599	In this particular case, here is Mr. Džaferović, first in line for the discussion and should have understanding. Sometimes things are different, but here, please. Ekrem Ajanović. Whose exhibit and what do you have a replica on?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23600	This is a replica of Mr. Slavko and Mr. Živković's presentation. And here, before I go to spend my time here, I want to say that there are too smart people here who abuse this parliament and I insist that they decide who goes first and who goes second. I was the first to apply for the replica and therefore, Mr. Džaferović, it is the right for the replica to go before the discussion and therefore do not... Just Slavki, I'm not surprised Slavko was saying this. This speech was also part of the creation of the Football Federation of BiH. Well, it was a war, it wanted two football alliances, and in the end it was the alliance that had to be, that it had to have a national team, etc. But here he is, a replica is certainly a replica, Slavko in his discussion showed in what way he believes, or people consider how we can reach consensus. That means take what I say and then it's a consensus. And if there are fools who accept, then there's no problem. Oh, I answer to Živković. I'm surprised at him as a very esteemed doctor and a very esteemed colleague. It cannot be that there are people who are against being members of Law Chamber 46 BiH and beyond being members of the European Chamber, because neither we, as Azra has already represented, can we be against being members of all the associations that exist for those professions we are engaged in. And let me just say this. If there is a BiH Constitutional Court, if there is a BiH Court, if there is a BiH Prosecutor's Office, then it is foolish to ask whether there is a constitutional basis for being a lawyer's chamber, whether it can, whether the constitution allows it to be a bar. Well, that's four things that are connected together into the legal system and that's normal that there's a constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23601	Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23602	My replica refers to the latest statement by the deputy minister who said this is the law necessary for the approximation of BiH, and I want it now: do you think that all the laws that this parliament needs to adopt and which, you say, are in the function of bringing BiH closer to the EU, and it is possible that they are not based on the Constitution. In my opinion this law, I'm asking you now to say, so on which member of the Constitution is based this law that you propose, because every law must have constitutional basis when proposed. And to tell you that it took a lot of courage for you to go out on behalf of the Ministry and defend a law that was unconstitutionally based. That's one thing. Secondly, to you, Mr. Belkić, you said, and to those who realized this was proposed by the Council of Ministers. It is true that this law came from the Council of Ministers, not from MPs. But the question is, how many ministers in the Council of Ministers voted? And here he keeps trying to replace the thesis, to say the Council of Ministers has proposed and now he has to go. Well, sometimes it doesn't have to if some ministers are overvoted in the Council of Ministers, and Serbian ministers are revoted on these laws and on all those laws that will be challenged by the SNSD Club. And to make it clear to the Council of Ministers that all laws that are not constitutionally based and which are passed through the vote will not be supported by the SNSD Club in this House. Finally, Mr Bećirović said that if it is not constitutionally based, we have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So is it true that the SDP suggests that we start to respect, that is, certain agreements assume the Constitution of BiH, and the basic legal principle is that every legal act until the new old one is adopted is in force and valid. So, even though we don't have a new constitution, do you think any agreement that has taken BiH can be assumed and placed above the BiH Constitution. I think it's a completely laymanic concept of the constitutional category and constitutional documents in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23603	Mrs. Marković, maybe we didn't understand each other. I, when I said he came from the Council of Ministers, treated the matter that the Council of Ministers, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, established the proposal and I do not know the notion of voting, so decision making. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23604	Well, then you probably didn't, Mr. Chairman, get to know that there was a vote and... a dispute from the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23605	I don't do details.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23606	Well, I'm very interested in every law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23607	I don't do business, I don't count it. Deputy Minister, are you ready to answer the question?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23608	So I don't think this law is unconstitutional, is it. So, the position of the Constitutional Commission is that only Article IV is listed in the preamble of the law and that every law that comes to this Parliament has, in fact, indicated that one constitutional basis. In Article II, point 1 is replaced by the following: The BiH Constitution stipulates that BiH will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, including, of course, the right to defence, the right to a fair trial, the right to representation, an effective legal remedy, etc. So, when we talk about the BiH Bar Association, to point out -- the BiH Attorney's Chamber of Lawyers make up lawyers joined the Federation's Bar of Lawyers, lawyers joined the RS Attorney's Chamber. Lawyers must join in one of the law offices of the position (1) of this member towards the seat of their bar of attorney and thus obtain the opportunity to apply for membership of the BiH Bar of Lawyers. However, we are now going into detail here, in one detail, but we have proposed that a public debate be held, namely the Commission is proposed to hold a public debate and, of course, the public debate can affect the law. But to suspect that this law is in the function of fundamental rights and human freedoms where it is the right to defend, where we should have an association at the level of the state, where this association at the level of the state should be a member of the association in Europe, etc., I think these are eclative things, these are facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23609	Nice to Kalabić you. Replica, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23610	Yes, replica, Mr. Chairman. I didn't expect to report for the replica in this matter, but I have to protect SNSD MPs from any discussions. 48 First, where does someone have the right to comment on the absolute right of MEP Jovičić to determine his position as he came to the stand. He can tell it to you and he doesn't have to tell it to you, but it's his right as a State MP to make a sovereign decision here. Is it disputed that he is a Srbin, is it disputed how he determines his views because he is a Srbin? And from another nationality, we will not ask him how and how he determines his views. Its right is, you can oppose his arguments with your arguments, and in a democratic vote we will decide. He, like, needed to say how he got the hang of it. Everyone consults with chambers, NGOs, citizens, everyone else and I think it is very incorrect to ask the MP a question – where does he get the right to create his position and how he created it. I think we're entering a sphere very incorrect. We can accept, we have repeatedly warned here that there is a need to negotiate. And on the Commission, we agreed that everyone should make an effort. If what the ministry has made an effort here is the result of the fact that the Council of Ministers, I agree, said Mr Ahmetović, made a decision and signed the Council of Ministers. When we do not pass the law, the legitimate decision of this Parliament that this law in this country should not be in which you have all participated and you are all behind that decision. You cannot comment on the mechanisms of how we come to a decision, because I vote by the rules laid down by the Constitution of this country. A clear message from this House when it rejects this law is to the Ministry that this country does not need this law. Now, that's what we'll have in the story -- you know, the Council of Ministers signed it. Here, they'll sign Parliament, and we'll have that situation. So we're going to stand behind that fact, because we remember the story in the Council of Ministers and the behaviour on police reform when we claimed to be all mouths that Europe is looking for, here's what we've done on the mechanisms that we've brought here. And I think in this way, Deputy Minister, I'll tell you that you've acted against our efforts to come to a compromise, to consensus and agreement. After revoted to the Council of Ministers, following ineffective efforts in communication to reach the necessary solutions to this law, you will have the result of this parliament that this country does not need this law. And that will be the only thing you will bring. And if you do it on several occasions, and your ministry becomes famous for not making those efforts to get to the law, you'll have that result. It's a message from this House. The fact that someone doesn't like it and thinks the MP abuses his position, voting on the basis of the Constitution, is not correct and don't question it, but make sure that all efforts to reach the law are put in place before the decision. I think there could have been a solution here, to be honest, but some of them took the road, some of them took the woods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23611	Replica, Slavko Jovičić. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23612	Well, it's hard for me to count a coma now that everyone's replicated to me. But here we go. Mr Huskić said that this is how I explained it, and not just me as an individual, that we from the RS, especially from the SNSD, are obstructing and blocking Parliament. That's not true. A well-prepared law, a bill in accordance with the Constitution in force in this country, will receive support. 49 When I figuratively said swallow, I didn't mean to swallow. It is known that the laws are being adopted, but I wanted to say that we had a much more difficult problem before, let's say, in this law on agriculture and rural development, so we named it "Framework" and it passed because we agreed. I don't represent an NGO here, I'm just repeating it, and whoever listened well could hear it, they're not respected procedures with official RS institutions. That's the point. They are partners for a BiH-level deal. So, the Ministry of Justice, the government of the RS, the National Assembly of the RS. Does anyone think if all these institutions, here in the bargaining chain, say this is a transfer of jurisdiction, does anyone think they can pressure me to accept it, as an individual, I don't speak on behalf of the club, or in the name of the Srbin, as an individual. It's another thing. The replica also refers to the presentation of Mr Okolić, only in one sentence. There is not a single request for me, who will direct it explicitly, that I respect it, if he cuts with the Constitution, I repeat, which is in force. And what's most important. I plead and beg all the promoters – come on, find the mechanism and agree your views before they come across the law on this bench, on the competent institutions. And your competent institutions, here, I'll call the coordinator, they were the entity government of the RS, the entity government of the Federation and the Brcko District. If you had set up with them, maybe this would have been a lot easier. And what is most important – why is this disputed? This is not an association matter, even if it existed at BiH level, which would meet some European criteria. No, here the most members of this bill are concerned with an internal association, which would be called the so-called, and the coordination of two existing associations, the bar of attorneys. It's not respected, and that's why people have made the remark that I've just made and I haven't pressured anyone, as I've caused so many replicas, that someone has to accept it. But I'll always perform like that and I'll always be against what's coming down with the Constitution, and this is obviously about the transfer of jurisdiction, against the constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23613	Denis Bećirović, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23614	My Kolegica Marković. I would like to say that here in this law and in a number of other laws, no one is jeopardising entities, cantons, or anyone in the BiH state, but rather training the BiH state for the benefit of all its peoples and citizens to become a normal European country to be a partner of the EU, which will seriously start implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We here seem to be pretending and as if we don't know the fact that this parliament should adopt hundreds and thousands of laws in the coming years to bring this country closer to the EU. We need to go public with whether or not we're going to do this job. I think that the motto, which has so far been applied to some MPs, prevents me from being an entity rather than an EU, is unsustainable. Or, if so, we should inform the entire EU that we in BiH have such a problem, so let's see how we solve it. At the same time, it cannot be called upon to respect the BiH Constitution, and then to introduce anti-constitutional terms in the next sentence – Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian ministers, etc. There are no such ministers. There are, under the Constitution of BiH, ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. I would especially like to say, if we are referring to the Constitution, did those entity legislators also refer to the Constitution when they threatened last year with declarations and resolutions of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country. In addition, the BiH Bar, which is to be formed, is required to submit a request for accession to the Council of Bar Associations and Legal Associations of Europe membership. Will the BiH Bar Association and all the lawyers in this country become members of these associations or will we not? If we don't, let's say it publicly, let's not hide it with any arguments that can no longer pass in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23615	He's got a drago Kalabić replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23616	Mr. Bećirović. You have the right to your position and I respect that. But what you're saying, on behalf of the RS, you can't say, you know. The citizens of the RS don't support what you're saying, like if I took what the people of Tuzla think and that's my majority opinion. It's not. You must respect that the entity's position determines the entity, not you; and that you claim what is good for the entity and what is not. And especially this truth of yours about the country, your truth about the European way! This is the consequence of the fact that you treat entities as an enemy, anti-European story and then you have that opinion. Fortunately, it's lonely, it's minority. The moment your opinion in this country is majority, I, in accordance with democratic rules, will not agree with that, but I will respect that. So that's your private opinion now and in the vast minority.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23617	Is there any more replicas? No, thank you. Mr. Džaferović, yes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23618	I, finally, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23619	Finally, here's 25 minutes of opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the adoption of this law, I would not observe from the point of view whether the BiH state is taking someone's jurisdiction or transferring or not to the BiH state. This law should be seen as the right and possibility for all BiH lawyers to be properly connected and linked to the CCBI or the Council of Bar Associations and Legal Associations of Europe. This should be a key issue in passing this law. So this is the right and opportunity of all the lawyers and all the legal associations that exist in BiH to be indisputably members of this European Bar Association and the Association of Legal Associations of Europe, as the most important European association in this area. And right away, the condition for this is the adoption of the State Law on Lawyerry and the establishment of a body to co-operate with this European institution. 51 I will not now say that there is a possibility. So no one will be able to punish anyone in this country because someone does not want this law; let them know that they will not prevent those who want to be tied to the European Association of Lawyers in their intention to be tied up. There's a way to do it and there's a legal way. I will not talk about it now, but to know that it exists and let those colleagues from the RS, from the Bar Association that prevents the adoption of this law from being possible and without them if they do not create the BiH Bar of Lawyers and contact this European Association, because do not forget that this country has its continuity. The BiH lawyer chamber existed before Dayton, there is a provision in Dayton that speaks of the continuity of the rules. The parliamentary chamber of the Republic of BiH has not been formally shut down and that possibility exists and let everyone know that it exists as a possibility. This is an invitation for all of us in post-day BiH to form a form of organising a BiH law association, so that people can normally enjoy rights and have obligations and to comply with their acts with the European Bar Association. And this is how this law should be observed. And we were on the Constitutional Legal Commission, because we were fully aware that the law had passed in the Council of Ministers, we knew that the Serbian people's ministers had not voted in favour of this law, that he had mostly come to Parliament, we said - we propose to the dom to support this law in the first reading and to open up the possibility of public debate for us. In a public debate, let's call representatives of the legal chambers and then sit together and see what is a generally acceptable form of BiH's lawyer organisation that can pass here in this parliament, which will meet European criteria. And that's what the Constitutional Commission proposed. If we had the opportunity without first reading to organise that public debate, we would have made it. We can't make it until the law, according to our rules of procedure, is adopted in the first reading. I call on you to adopt the law in the first reading, but at the same time, to say in our conclusion, as the House, that the Constitutional Commission is in charge of calling on representatives of interested chambers, or all legal chambers in BiH, so that both entity legal chambers, together with them and the Ministry of Justice and the justice ministries of the entity, form one acceptable text, i.e. amendments affecting this law, so that the law is acceptable to everyone in BiH, including this Parliament. And I think it's the only way out of this situation. Otherwise, once again, I've listened to the television show, it's something I've been very worried about, the theme of the day was in the evening, when representatives of the Federation's Bar of Lawyers and representatives of the RS Bar of Lawyers participated. I then heard from a representative, or president of the RS Bar, that he is for co-operation but that there is no way of establishing any institutional forms at the level of the state. If that's the case, then we have a serious problem. I hope it is not so and there will be a willingness to establish some kind of institutional organisational form in the legal profession and at BiH level, because, I repeat, without it, there is no access to this European Association, and at the same time I repeat, whoever thinks he will be able to block the right of those who want to, let him know that he will not and therefore there is a possibility and way. But it would not be good for us to complicate relations in this area in BiH, and the best thing would be for me to call for dialogue and agreement and thus resolve this issue. 52 I'm thinking about one more thing, and you as colleagues think about it. I don't know how the vote will go today when it comes to first reading. If it is to believe what we have heard, today the law will not be able to receive support in the first reading. If that is the case, I do not think we – as Parliament for several years we have been trying to arrange this area – should not let this thing out of our hands. And I will not suggest anything to you as a College, I suggest that you consider at the same time that if we come into a position that we do not have a law form a single group in Parliament here and that immediately next week we continue working together with the BiH Ministry of Justice, the justice ministries of the entity, the Commission of the Brcko District and the legal chambers of both the Federation of BiH and the RS, because we simply cannot let this thing out of our hands anymore. I'm glad, in the end, that I've heard the views of some colleagues coming from the RS, is this all I'm glad, because from that I'm drawing the conclusion that not all hope is submerged when it comes to establishing some kind of BiH-level legal association, that there is this kind of readiness, is just a question that is the kind of association? Here, that would be my view of this situation and my suggestions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23621	Živković, discussion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You can't sign up electronic from here, and you have no reason not to believe that even members of the College have the right to apply for discussion and replication and let me work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23623	First, I want to say that I have no desire to because...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23624	He can't be electronic, so we're the only ones who can give up our right to a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23625	...that I'm sitting here, I'd even like to sit there, so that the same way my colleagues can answer. But here we go in a row. So, it is clear to me that what the deputy said was that the position of the Constitutional Commission is that only Article IV of the Constitution of BiH is cited and I am not surprised by the view of the Constitutional Commission, when we know and that the Constitutional Court of BiH has stated in its rulings that it is quite enough to state Article 4.a) of the Constitution of BiH where one notor fact that this parliament has the right to pass the laws is introduced. Where is the constitutional basis that this parliament has such laws to...? So it is necessary to say which member is being called upon to be able to bring it out of jurisdiction. So 53 such an attitude by the Constitutional Commission and your argument that this is the position of the Constitutional Commission does not surprise me, but I do not think it is correct. Also from fellow doctors who respected the possibility that medical chambers at BiH level and the need to unite – I am not surprised either. However, you know for yourself that the medical chambers and this law on medical chambers has been passed at the level of the entity. I'm not going to prejudge the fact, it may happen in the future that these medical chambers will agree to build a medical chamber or an alliance of medical chambers at BiH level. But I want you to know that the medical chamber is working very well with other countries' medical chambers and there are no problems in that co-operation. And don't, I understand your need to put everything on BiH level, but I don't understand the need for all of us to do it. Do you know what the problem is between Macedonia and Greece? It's said to be just a semantic problem, I think it's a fundamental problem. So is the fundamental problem and the very name when you want to put something beyond the Constitution at BiH level and the question is just how it will come to this parliament, and then we will all come to a public debate to negotiate. When we were able to agree on a fundamental problem later in the public debate, which is that this law bears the name 'Law on Bars in BiH' or an alliance or 'Framework Law on Bars', which would make it clear that there is no one bar in BiH but that there are more, but there is no problem making an alliance to enter the Association of European Chambers. Why don't we talk that way? Why are we not going to say that there is authority in this BiH and entity? Why do we want to talk in the world that there is only one truth about BiH, that there is only something called BiH from a Bosniak perspective. Let's talk that way, and then you'll have our support and we'll negotiate that law in the Council of Ministers and confirm that law here. And these ways are just foreplay for constitutional change, where you think that by adopting or sending a mass of unconstitutional laws to this parliament that have no constitutional basis you force, this way, MPs from the RS entity to vote against and be the main story of constitutional changes. Unfortunately, it won't come to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23626	We're going back to replicas. Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23627	I'm just going to replicate to my colleague Živković about this if we don't have any problems. We had... problems that we solved and, colleagues from the RS, neurologists also had the same problems that we solved by registering the association as an association in BiH, and colleagues are on a voluntary basis. It was the only way to register, become a legal person and join the European Federation of Neurological Companies, the European family. This was all informal and off-the-book contacts.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23628	I'm moving Bešlagić. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23629	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow guests, this is about this law on the bar, and I must say that we have only heard Mr. Šefik Džaferović as a lawyer and Mr. Kalabić, I think, as a lawyer. The others aren't lawyers. I'm surprised, I really didn't want to discuss it, but when this debate started, then I lined things up and, from what I'm looking for, I talked to Serbian lawyers about helping me and helping our Ilija and all those who are on the charges in Serbia today. It is one big..., who served as vice president of the Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, who told me that he had just brought in two entities, to say, the head of the two chambers, the bar, to join and only needed their agreement that something would be common in BiH and did not agree, and it failed. I speak by people from Serbia, not by BiH. I'm saying how complicated we are in BiH. And remember, when we brought here a resolution on BiH's entry into the EU, that we signed all the parties in this House that we were priors to joining the EU. You remember, when the Association Agreement was signed that the credit was there, that credit, gentlemen, took the ruling six, even though we were in favour, with certain criticisms. That in other words means when we get the obligation to do something about what we signed and what you took yourself, we always come here to who it is, what it is, what gives us the right to pass laws. And as you know, I'm a big fan of respecting the BiH Constitution and the Dayton Agreement and you know I'm real, but I don't think the Council of Ministers has understood that commitment. That's why I'm a couple of times and more, here and now I'm saying, it was very important for me to first see what that obligation is to that declaration of ours... The EU, to say to the Council of Ministers: these are the laws that we must pass, not voting whether I am one or the one, the Srbin, the Hrvat, the Bošnjak, etc., and that for such laws, whenever delivered to parliamentary procedure, it is written - the Council of Ministers proposes - and that it has met that condition, I would say, agreements on the transfer of jurisdiction... if there is a constitutional provision for it. I was happy for the first time that in the parliamentary procedure we had 13 laws in the first reading. It is the obligation of this Parliament. Will they be executed? It is our duty to make sure they are executed. But it seems to me that after this debate and after such a warning of the transfer of jurisdiction and it all comes down to it, the whole debate about it is, therefore, not about the quality of the law, but about it, except for Mr Džaferović, who has said something else now, which brings us to the conclusion that the productivity of this Council of Ministers will be very poor and the productivity of this Parliament will be very bad, because we will be dealing with these laws, we will discuss here and, in the end, when the vote comes, these laws will not get the necessary majority. For this reason, I would once again ask that we may refer the request to the Council of Ministers that, above all, he must fulfil that obligation. I cite one example when I made a proposal in this House six years ago to form the Ministry of Agriculture. That's when I got the answer that I didn't meet the precondition, because I didn't get the consent of the entity governments. Please, who is proposing the law, if that's the rule, then you should get this consent. Otherwise, the purpose of this debate in this House loses its meaning and therefore I ask you once again to draw the attention of the Council of Ministers to take this problem seriously so that tomorrow it will not be declared to have very little efficiency, and therefore to blame ourselves for having this little efficiency. Thank you very much. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23630	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23631	I thank you, Chairman. So I think this law should be adopted in the first reading for two or three reasons. Basically, really, when it comes to reading the essence of this law, its provisions, it's really about a framework law entitled 'The Law on BiH', not about the bar, you know. So it's, in my opinion, about one framework law and here, here, I would, I'm free to go from the the thesis that this really isn't about, in my opinion, any transfer of jurisdiction. Why isn't it a transfer of jurisdiction? For the reason that this law does not remove the legal chambers of entities. Articles 11, 33, 90, 91, etc. So in Article 11. "Advocacy chamber is being formed," it says, "legislators joined the Federation of BiH's Bar Association and lawyers joined the RS Bar of Lawyers". Well, then in Article 33, when it comes to responsibilities to carry out activities, lawyers are mentioned: 'Advocacy activities under Article 3 of this Law may be carried out by lawyers registered in the directory of BiH's Bar of Lawyers or by the relevant registers of legal chambers in the Federation of BiH, RS or regional chambers of entities'. Then, it is said here in Article 90 of the Assembly, of the Founding Assembly, etc., that we do not enter into details. So this isn't about abolishing the entity's legal chambers. Therefore, the jurisdiction of the entity's legal chambers remains. Lawyers joined these chambers continue to do their jobs. Article 9 states that... lawyers can do this, this activity in the entire territory of BiH and outside. So I'm really asking you to really need it, I think you should accept this law in the first reading. What is the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission to open a public debate that in the amendment phase, if there are any dilemmas, that all of this is removed and that such a law, as one framework law, is accepted in order to meet the conditions for these here associations, which... are required of us to access such associations. So, I really ask you, let us accept this law in our first reading, to open up the possibility that in the amendment phase all these dilemmas will be removed and in such a way that we can fulfill something that is good for all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23632	Thank you. Next for the discussion, honourable MP Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this is not the first time in this house following a proposal for legislation coming from the Council of Ministers to open a debate not on the law itself but we are returning to question the constitutional basis of this law and the matter of transposition, the possible transfer of entity jurisdiction to the state level. So, the first thing that's weird is that today, and I'm saying it's not the first time, that only, as far as I know, a colleague in front of me, a fellow Remzi, talked about it – do we need this law or don't we need it? So we haven't thrown enough to say whether or not we need to, let alone talk about the metricity of this bill. Therefore, it should be made clear that our constitution is quite inaccurate and has laid very broad and inaccurate jurisdiction of the BiH state. And that it is difficult, to say more specifically, to draw the authority of the state in terms of the adoption of many laws, which we have so far passed, referring to the same article in the Constitution today on the agenda. However, it is less important for me here whether this law will pass today or not. I think that these political debates, which today were led, should point to a commitment of this home – or we will accept a broadly set, let's say, a formulation of the Constitution on the jurisdiction of the state and, in that sense, transfer the jurisdiction of the entity to the state, or we will interpret that they are the original state jurisdiction, or we will say, brother, let's change the Constitution. The others are gone. Let's make it clear then. Or we will say that we are not honest with our resolution that we are for a faster journey to the EU, that we are obliged as a serious state to keep up with the contractual obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So that is one turning point for which we would have to, which should be a political agreement in Parliament. Because this is going to be a blockade next session too, nothing's going to be new and nothing's new today. Imagine, for example, passing the whole procedure, working a year at a bill, forming inter-resor groups, consulting, costs being made, law being passed, Council of Ministers law passing and then we come here and open a political debate – is that a transfer of jurisdiction or not? So this is about a very serious obstacle, let's say -- people, let's not bother anymore, you know. And now we have a chance, the law is in the second reading, the issue of constitutional ground is being asked and whether it's the original jurisdiction of the state. So in the interest of both the costs of our time and the political debates that do not lead to anything, I think it would be good for the parliamentary majority to agree once on whether to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is to change the Constitution, if the Constitution is an obstacle to that. After all, many countries that are now EU members had to change their constitution three or four times and coordinate it, and we have additional reasons to do so. To me, for example, there's a contradiction to some debate here that contests the constitutional basis of this law. And the conclusion, a unanimous conclusion or... the Constitutional Commission's conclusion without the vote "against" to organise a public debate. And what Džaferović was saying, the public debate only makes sense if we supported the law in the first reading. And if we opted for a public debate, then I think... that we could do a little efficiency to this approach and support the law in the first reading. To enable him to experience a serious public debate and, of course, the force of amendments that could, behold, possibly correct this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23634	Thank you. 57 Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23635	Mr. Vice-President, this is what I was going to tell you at the break, but I realized it was necessary to say it publicly here for a stenogram alone. So, I want to tell you that it is not so important at all what will be called this body or this BiH-level legal association and there is room for discussion and agreement. And you've highlighted it as one of the important points in the process of passing this law. I ask you to consult, to consider once again at the club the possibility of your position to support this law in the first reading,... to just come to the stage of debate, public debate, and then to discuss in a public debate all these issues, because BiH lawyers are working on the territory of the entire BiH state. Ramsia started something, Mr. Kadrić started talking about it, lawyers weren't locked up in entity lines, not in cantonal lines, they couldn't be. And now we don't want to go to Bosnia – I actually think we will – I ask you to make an effort to do something to link it to Evropa, nothing more. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23636	Thank you. The discussion is attended by honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23637	Thank you. At the beginning of my discussion, I would like to remind all MPs in the House of Representatives that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has already passed, among other things, the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Criminal Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Administrative Procedure before the Court of BiH, the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Law on the Executive Procedure of BiH, the Law on BiH Administration, the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH, the Law on the exercise of criminal sanctions on detention and other measures. So these 11 laws have already been passed in BiH and at this point, in my opinion, it is tragic to challenge the need to adopt 'The Law on BiH'. I would also like to say that the consistent application of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Civil Rights Pact, as well as all other provisions of international human rights agreements, are contained in the BiH Constitution. And those provisions require the establishment of a BiH state-level lawyer, which will be regulated in accordance with European standards. Namely, when I spoke about the Constitution of BiH, Article II of the BiH Constitution, point 2 literally reads: 'The rights and freedoms provided for in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and in its protocols', I stress, 'directly apply in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These acts have priority over all other laws." So, the BiH Constitution is no obstacle, it stands in the Constitution of BiH, which we have read and sworn at the beginning of this mandate that we will implement. 58 I would also like to say that, in line with the European principles relating to the exercise of the legal profession, the Bar Association of BiH is required to apply for membership in the Council of Bar Associations and Legal Associations of Europe. We today need to clearly show whether or not we want BiH to join the Council of Bar Associations and Legal Associations of Europe. I must say, I disagree with those who have described some discussions here as, quote, 'unfriendly to entities'. I think we're having an argument today and there's no way we're saying anything to the enemy. I personally think that those who block BiH's path, but also its two Bosnian-Herzegovina entities, are acting irresponsiblely both towards entities both to the state and to the citizens. I think that the closer we are to the EU, the adoption of the necessary laws in order to one day achieve our strategic goal of becoming a full member of the EU, is unfortunate if we treat it as a fraud between us. It's not a scam. We simply have to be a little more honest with the people of this country. It may also be easy for all BiH politicians, including all of us in Parliament, with diplomatic passports we can leave, is it so, both in Europe and in the world with the diplomatic passport of BiH, spend the daily lives of BiH citizens, and, on the other hand, the vast majority, 95%, 99% of BiH citizens have no chance at all to get out of BiH and keep these people trapped now, not allow here to adopt European laws, not allow this country to become a member of the EU that all peoples and peoples in this country have the opportunity to enjoy, as well as other European countries, the benefits that it brings with them the EU. That is why in the end, and for this law, I want to say that we definitely need to understand here that BiH must approach and adapt to the EU and that the EU will not adapt to BiH. The sooner we figure it out, the better it'll be for all of us in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23638	No more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 6. Proposed law on law of law. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law to prevent riots in sports competitions (first reading) The Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and on the principles on 30 January. An appropriate, i.e. valid constitutional basis has been established. Most of the votes are supported by principles. I'm opening a debate on the bill on preventing riots in the sports competitions in the first reading. I have a report from Mr. Bećirović. Here you go, Bećirović. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23640	I must say that there really are legitimate reasons for the adoption of such a law and there is a need in BiH to regulate this issue in a unique way, and it stems from that sport law that we discussed here and adopted it. It is true that at this time there are in one of the two entities and in some cantons similar laws that regulate this matter, but it is also true that we do not see the effects of these laws until today, because riots and violence in sports competitions occur without any fence in all BiH. In light of this law, however, it says that this law proposes establishing police co-operation between all police forces in BiH. I think it should be deleted, so how is it formulated here in this way, because logically the question is what about those police laws that were adopted in the spring of last year, what about police reform, she answered these questions and she imposes this need, not this law as it stands here. Personally, I think it is not good that we have waited 14 years to get to this law, especially if we have in mind that the European Convention on Violence and Indecent behavior of the viewers that it requires us to adopt such a law. Given that the law is in the first reading, if we had the opportunity to say some of our principles today and that we would also have the opportunity to act concretely in the amendment phase, hopefully, if it were to pass in the first reading, it would be good for Article 4 of this law to try to regulate a part relating to inappropriate and offensive behaviour when performing an anthem of BiH or when using other state symbols in BiH. Also, I would like to say that the criminal sanctions provided for by this law are not adequate for what is needed in BiH today. For example, in Article 49, it is said that fines from 2,000 to 10,000 KM can be charged for a violation for a natural person who, under paragraph g), I quote, 'physical attacks, calls and encourages a fight', and the penalties are between 2,000 and 10,000 KM. Then for a person who participates in a fight or an attack on another viewer, director and official, a minimum sentence like this again. For a person who damages or destroys parts of a sports facility, a means of transport, other property, etc., again such a fine. I would like to say that other countries in both the region and Europe have regulated this issue much more sharply than this law provides, and I think that there is also a need for serious consideration by the legislators of this law and the Council of Ministers of BiH that we also apply certain sanctions applied by other developed countries. For similar penalties, from what I've now listed, the neighborhood also says prison sentences from six months to five years, from one year to eight years, etc., and that's not foreseen here at all. I'm afraid if we go this mildly with sanctions, for such huge violations, it'll be an additional encouragement for the hooligans in this country that they can make the riots we've seen in the past few years in the territory of all BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23641	Vinko Zorić; I apologize, the replica has Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23642	No, it's not. I hooked up to a button. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23643	He was playing a little bit, okay. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23644	I welcome all present. And, since I don't suffer from how many words I'm going to have with these NGOs, which count the reporting of us parliamentarians, I didn't want to report under the previous law, where the agenda point is in the agenda that I got and the title of the law isn't the same, you know what it's about, so it's about language, but I'm going to say it under this law. Why didn't I answer at the previous point? Because someone on behalf of, here, wrote here the secretary general signed, so, yes, so I thought this cover was going according to the person who signed it, so I kept quiet. However, it also reads in this law 'The Proposed Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in the Sports Competition', and was signed by Mr. Zvonimir Kutleša, so I don't know why it's not written in Croatian, and it's full of such mistakes, I can only list some of them. Therefore, in the title of 'The Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in the Sports Competition', it is not a competition, but the following, therefore, in Article 2. "Sports competition" etc. Then we have article 18 where it says "conditions," so it doesn't say terms, then we have article 23. 'conditions', then we have what most startled me, so you know that the Croatian language is sport, and the other two languages are sport, so we have added that's' in article 31 where it says 'obligations of athletes'. But here, the lecturer doesn't know that the Croatian word is a athlete, but it's "s" in, so let it be found. But immediately in paragraph 1 of that same Article 31, it says "sportsman." And so on and so forth,...then 'participators', a general phenomenon in this law, is not a participant. Now I'm going to say something about this law. I won't repeat the words my predecessor said. So there's a really big need around this law. We know that mostly hooligans, I won't say fans, hooligans make riots in stadiums. The real fans are less and less pleased to come to competitions and cheer for their club, the team, for their athletes whom they worship, is, in individual disciplines, but I would say that according to the experiences and experiences from the world, and here from the RS, that it would be good if the title reads 'in sports competitions'. So, to be in plural, not in unity, and I think that, although fellow Bećirović said that sanctions are too mild, I am so that if we adopt and when we adopt, and that is why I am to adopt a law like this, so that we can correct it through amendments, so what we adopt to apply. Because it's not enough to list huge sanctions here, not sanction them. I have experience and I follow, I have no living experience but I follow how it happens in our neighbouring Republic of Croatia where the law is perfect, but there are enormous violence in sports competitions and I don't see this great sanctioning, although there is reason for it. So I repeat and underline it, what we adopt in this law, so whether it's already written in it or written through the amendments, that's why I'm doing it rigorously. So, if there's no deviation from that law and there's no privileged person so that, uh, anyone can pass the team, let's call the fans, and those handfuls of fans thousands and thousands of real fans are pulling away and these real fans don't come to sports fields. 61 thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23645	I really apologize to Mr. Zorić. What's up to us we'll take over. Unfortunately, the text came in like that, but here's what we're going to warn the secretary general, and here we are going to intervene, and I'm looking at what you're saying. I've got more Adem Huskić on file. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? Please sign up. If not, we only have Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't talk much, but I'll just say that I'm really glad that a bill like this came to Parliament. I've personally been dealing with the thought of proposing the law myself, but after a little longer analysis, I've given up, because I've seen that I need more knowledge from these certain disciplines that I really don't have. But here, I'm glad the Council of Ministers proposed this law, and it's a logical sequence of the Law on Sports and the logical sequence of the organization of our leagues competition and I think what we lack in sports is this law, because now it's happening in stadiums that has nothing to do with sports. So, sports events only serve as a cause for wildlings that are more harmful, that is, the benefits of which no one has, sport at least. And that's why I suggest that we support the principles of this law, and the possible shortcomings, which of course exist in the text, that we fix in the amendment phase, because it's obvious that some countries in Europe, which have had problems similar to us, have dealt with the laws and brought the situation to the sports grounds so that it's really nice to go to the game, and we have a situation that a normal man has nothing to look for at games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23647	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on item 7, so the bill on preventing riots in sports competitions. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters (first reading) We received the opinion of the committee responsible for basic principles on 30 January. A valid constitutional basis has been established and the principles of the bill are supported. 62 I'm opening a debate, first reading. I, unfortunately, – here I am now – have not been reported. So I'm closing the debate on point 8. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Guarantee Fund Act (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23650	Well, I'll do it a little bit shorter. The Commission has unanimously supported this law. I was also pleased to hear the discussions of all the members of the Commission and the proposing representatives that this is a very important law, that this law encourages economic development, that at the right time it is proposed, at the time of the recession. I think this law... is one of the key measures if we want (the Council of Ministers at this request and colleagues of Jovičić) measures to overcome the economic crisis. We know that this law will have both financial and economic positive effects and social effects, as it will prevent the exclusion and bankruptcy of many small and medium-sized enterprises, so there will be fewer job cuts. There'll be more investment, more... In my opinion, this is one key reform and economic law. I think we should support it and be one of the most important measures in the Council of Ministers' strategy in measures to overcome the economic crisis. I welcome the motionary. I think he picked the right time and the right time. You see, in order for this fund to have 150 million... if it were very, very, we know that now the loan is harder to come by, the criteria are sharpened, interest increased. I think the state should intervene. The other day I saw in Serbia the state intervene into state-owned companies, especially those that have production and exports. Why don't we encourage our own economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23651	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23652	I will only read one part of the reasons for the adoption of this law: 'When, given the situation in domestic banking as well as the necessity of providing funding for the development of 63 small and medium-sized enterprises, the state should assume both the obligation of financial and non-financial support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs.' I agree that this law should and should be developed by small and medium-sized enterprises. But why is domestic banking like this? Why doesn't the promoter wonder if maybe the state can regulate these issues, so that it won't be such a situation? Because there's a whole page before that, one story about how this development of small and medium-sized enterprises is impossible through loans from business banks. And I also want to say that there should be clear criteria so that there will be no abuse through this guarantee fund, and I will change the rules here where it says that this fund is beginning to work, so I think it is, after the adoption of this law, and then, it says, the founders of the fund can be BiH institutions, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the entity government, the Brcko District and local authorities, and then it says again that the funds for the foundation will be provided from the budget. How are they gonna make sure if your founders don't, when they say they can? I think... you should say in the beginning who is the founder of this one guarantee fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23653	I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23654	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23655	Well, didn't you speak, Mr. Bahtić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23656	To answer, he asked why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23657	Is that a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23658	He said why the state intervenes at banks. I believe that our country in the field of monetary policy cannot intervene or have influence. We know our banks are all privatized, all of them are bank daughters. You know, that's the outside factor that decides. And that's why it's good for this law to pass these banks, where the banks, we know that the banks are all privatized, so the state has no impact, neither on interest nor credit. The state can just bypass banks like this to encourage our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23659	Savo Erić. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23660	So, I'd just like to ask the Proposer to explain a little more in the second reading that we reduce the amendments, not to spread the debate. That's what I said to the Commission. So if we're already giving funds, how do we provide a return bonus, on which basis, that's one thing. And what Vinko said, it's impossible to make a mixed fund with the owner or the one who invests the money, and he has no right to decide or if he's going to be a state then he has to define himself. So there's a lot of misunderstanding in that direction. So it doesn't turn out now that we don't support the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises that won't be able to move on safely if there's no support from the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23661	Here, I hope, when you've already mentioned small and medium-sized enterprises, that we'll get this development strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises very quickly, which is one of the obligations. But here, the deputy minister answered and offered, or made it available to answer all questions. Here you go, Mr. Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23662	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies and deputies, you have before you a proposal for a law on the Guarantee (or the Guarantee) Fund. At the time of this recession, when it's harder and harder to reach the funds, the funds are increasingly expensive. The Ministry of Finance and then the Council of Ministers decided and referred you to the benches of this bill, and I ask you to support it. So, in a desire to stimulate economic development and market economy affirmation, the institutions of the government are undermining the problem of creating an adequate environment to encourage development and self-sustaining projects. So, with the proposal for a law, you are also accompanied by a proper explanation with constitutional basis, the reasons for the adoption, the opinion of the Legislative Office is also attached. With the law on borrowing, debt and guarantees of BiH, we took over the guarantee only for capital investments. And we have exactly what is left of BiH's largest passage or for the future can do the most, these are small, medium-sized enterprises and small entrepreneurs or farmers. The formation of such a fund would directly affect the price of capital in business banks. That's what you were asking. So, BiH is not at the level of BiH institutions or banking agency, we don't even have the supervisory supervisory of banks that the European Partnership is looking for, you know, it's been rejected here. So we don't have the standards, as a state, that we can call banks and talk about it, because that's what these agencies should be doing. Here, in order to lower capital, to lower the price of capital, we simply to those small and medium-sized enterprises that at this time very difficult to get to the collateral, which is when he asks the bank to get a loan to ask him for a supply of some or something, the state fund would show up but in the next sense, that you don't think about it, too. 65 You saw in the bill that there would be a board of directors, then the Supervisory Board, then the director of it. The Fund will have its Statute, will have its Rules of Procedure and, most importantly, the chairman said earlier, this is part of this, so we will have a BiH strategy that will be a summary strategy and entities for the development of medium and small enterprises. And in the variant of adopting in this strategy the concept of development, let's say, strawberry fruit, we have in strategy, people who can do it come forward. And the business bank project estimates that it is, and the man has this idea, has everything but no collateral, has nothing to confirm it with – in that variant this fund will stand behind it, as is now that we are behind all capital investments in BiH. And I think... there's no doubt that we don't expect you to make a very good amendment, to improve this, but I mean in this situation, when very difficult especially small businesses come to the funds that are very expensive, this way we're going to help run a little faster BiH development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23663	Thank you, Deputy. I hope Mr. Erić gets the answer. We have a replica, Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23664	It's a mistake, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23665	Error. Is there a mistake with Erić? We have a discussion of Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23666	The banks have a reason to ask for collaterals, which they do well before they give money. We will support this law, in the best of intentions, to support a small economy, a medium economy. However, I can't help but wonder what it can come up with when the state is providing funds, and it's not looking for these guarantees that banks are looking for for for a reason. Here, with these CEMT licenses, we saw what things came up with. As soon as you can give something to this, to that, not to give, over the line, by which criteria, you know, by which priorities. This time it's money, which is even more dangerous than any license. And I can't, see, this is not how I publicly express my concern, but ask you, and we'll look at it now for another reading, how to make sure the best of it, not to be over the line, that someone's paying someone back for putting it across the line, etc. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23667	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 9 on the proposal for a guarantee fund law 66 Let's go to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures (first reading) We received our opinion on constitutional basis and principles on January 30th. A valid constitutional basis and the principles of the proposed law have been established. Šefik Džaferović immediately reported on this item of the agenda for the debate. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I just came by to say that in terms of this law, as well as the Law on Lawyerry, we decided to do some kind of public debate after the first reading, to see what the situation in these institutions is like to carry out criminal sanctions. Let's take a look at the organization and the way it works. The law that regulates their work or on which their work is founded and of course these changes and additions and to see if this is all that needs to be changed now, complemented or some other areas should be affected. So, I ask you to support the law in first reading and help us also to carry out this kind of professional, public debate with, above all, the justice ministries in BiH and these institutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23670	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, for your helpful notes. I don't have any more reports. I conclude the debate on item 10, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on constitutional basis and principles on 30 January. A valid constitutional basis has also been established and the principles of this law are supported. 67 I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I am finalising the debate on item 11, so the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina Administration. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23674	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it real quick. First of all, I believe that what he was saying, and earlier on, the vice-president, we should introduce here a practice that the legislator, first of all, explains the reasons why he proposes certain solutions in some law, so that we can then be channeled later when the debate is being held. But since the legislator is not there, even though we know that as far as the Ministry of Civil Affairs is concerned, they are in this, when it comes to their presence and responsibility, that there was no such presence. However, not to go into these things, I have tried to do a little bit, given the shortness of time, some solutions that are existing solutions to what was proposed by the working group formed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and those proposals that were accepted at the Council of Ministers' meeting on a proposal from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Indeed, there are 68 differences, certain different visions in what this Employment Agency is looking at, in which the Agency is independent, independent, what should be done, what should not be done, so that there are these different visions, perhaps conceptual visions regarding the work of this Agency. I want to say that regardless of all this, we should support the law in the first reading in order to remove this dilemma in the amendment phase together – I will propose certain amendments – with the Ministry of Civil Affairs and with this working group we see what should be removed, if these things should, in some way, lead to a system of better functioning of the Agency so that the bill does not fail. For these reasons, I support this position of the Constitutional Commission. In the amendment phase, we will try to remove these dilemmas in such a way as to bring this law, to adopt it, and to have several laws on the list that we have adopted in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23675	I said a little bit that we absolutely support the commitment that every time the promoter wants to go out for a pay phone and make additional notes, but let's say that I suggest following Minister Ljubić's practice, which at the beginning of the session, recorded who was present and for which question. I can't know every man who comes in here, in front of whom he's come in and wants to hear from you, etc. So, either the promoters or those who are authorised on behalf of the promoter, let the Secretary of the House at the beginning of the session of the application at which points they are present and whether they wish to have an opening statement. Here we go, Mr. Jozo Križanović. So, a man from the Department of Civil Affairs, if he wants to speak, I'll let him. Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23676	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually thinking about whether or not to say something to this, especially because we're being denied an introductory presentation. You see, I've put a lot of effort into seeing what changes are made to this law. And I couldn't quite understand what it was about. So it would be very important to say what is the reason for the amendment and addition of this law. Especially since one of the reasons is mentioned to comply with the 2003 Administration Act. So, the very reasons and the very proposals to change this law don't convince me that we're getting any better Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment, and I think this is a failed concept that I couldn't support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23677	Šefik Džaferović. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23678	Mr. Chairman! What is the essence of this law? The people of the Agency for Labour and Employment realized that it was necessary to improve the work of the Agency and that it was necessary to amend the law and that a working group was formed and that part was really done correctly. But then when the law came to the Ministry, then the Ministry, as far as I can tell by what's being said and what's written here in the laws, took advantage of the opportunity and then extended its ingenuity to that agency. Now the problem is that and I will, I have stood up to say that this law should be supported in the first reading, but that in the amendment phase we will take care to improve the work of the Agency and preserve its autonomous status in relation to the original law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23679	It's a good thing you have this information. We have a law proposed by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23680	It's nothing, and I've read this law well, and here I am following the discussions. I'm going to say right now that I'm going to support this law in my first reading. A colleague, Džaferović, said in this law there is an amendment, going towards strengthening the role of the ministry of civil affairs, which I strongly support for the reason it has, not only this director, there are a lot of directors who have nothing to do with the ministry. Among other things, this director traveled to Argentina, didn't ask anyone, there's a lot of expenses, no one's sending anyone to Argentina. And that's why it takes the Resort Ministry to have something to do with the agencies that not every director can do what he wants, because I'm going to invest the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23681	Mr. Bahtić, let's stay away from personal matters, give us the law to talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23682	I understand the refusal of various; however, if we want to strengthen the role of the state, then the development strategy, the employment strategy, the state needs through a resorient ministry to have some insight into the work of the Employment Agency. My friend Remzi, no one can lobby me personally if they can. I speak from the aspect of the state and strengthening the state. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23683	It's okay, thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. I am concluding the debate on item 13 on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment. Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Adem Huskić (first reading) The Constitutional Commission was in charge. We received a report on January 30th. Principles are supported and a valid constitutional basis has been established. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23690	In fact, the proposal is that perhaps for the 19th, 20th, 21st point of the agenda, since it is all about setting a new deadline, let's discuss it together and say right away – our view is that we believe that all business opportunities are exhausted and that we propose to suspend in all three proposals this request. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23691	Here, you heard this proposal. I won't ignore him, but here we go. Let's hear the debates. I have a registered man for discussion. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23692	Well, here, on behalf of the Transport and Communications Commission, I will state my position. In fact, we have tried to bring the amendments submitted to these two laws, which are under paragraphs 19 and 20. We failed to do so within the time limit that was left for us, which is why we asked the House to give us the home to actually extend the deadline to try to bring all these submitted amendments into line. I don't think it would be bad if we tried to get those laws, here in some future period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23693	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović. So Mr. Živković suggested we conduct a single debate on 19th, 20th, 21st, so on all these requirements. Of course, when the vote comes, we will declare each individual request, unless there is some need to comment on either some clarification or an additional argument is about these points. If there's no reason to make a special announcement at these points, I think we can accept it. So, does Dom support this? Here I come, is there any need to vote? Here are the people who insist we vote. So, I'm asking you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) 73 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23696	I would here, given what we had in the first part of the session, I would really... appeal to Mr. Živković to try to find a solution here. After the discussion we had on the Transport and Communications Commission, I think it would be worth it to find any possibility to extend the deadline for the amendment to try, with some efforts, to adopt these very important laws in Parliament. So one appeal to try to find the possibility to extend this deadline after all. It doesn't have to be long, a few days' time, but, in my opinion, it would be very useful to bring something like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23697	I have a registered Slavko Matić. Did I get that correctly, Mr. Minister, did you want a few?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23698	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23699	It is about laws whose processor and promoter is the Ministry of Transport and Communications. I think it will be useful to hear the Minister's thoughts on these deadlines, extensions, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23700	Well, look, it's two very important laws, the Civil Aviation Act and the Flight Control Agency Act. These laws are necessary in meeting the ATM strategy, so the BiH airspace management strategy, according to which BiH should assume operational control over its sky at the end of this year, currently being done by neighbouring countries Serbia and Croatia. These laws have been very seriously done with the help of the Civil Aviation Directorate, the Ministry, the Entity Directorates of Civil Aviation, entity ministries, and we have come to one text of both laws that we believe meets all the needs of BiH which, of course, are not only our 74 internal needs but our international obligations in this area, because BiH, when it comes to air traffic, cannot remain a black hole. However, I know that here, to put it this way, there have been certain... parainstitutional problems related to these laws and which have been tied up, why not say openly, for the accommodation of these institutions, which would arise from these two laws, one institution in Mostar, another institution in Banja Luka, and certain concerns on the part of Banja Luka that accommodation of institutions in Banja Luka would come into question, I don't know why. Here, I guarantee here, on behalf of the Ministry, as soon as conditions are created for the establishment of these institutions, they will be moved to Banja Luka, or Mostar. Therefore, if anyone has any concerns about it, please, I am prepared to drive you away. And we need these laws because, respected representatives, BiH does not kill around 30 million marks a year at this point, which will pick up when it begins to exercise operational control over its sky. On the other hand, this whole system of ATM strategies whose operationality depends on the adoption of these laws has been paid and is already being installed in BiH, Sarajevo and Banja Luka, on our mountains where radar stations and this loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is 17m euros. We'll be returning those funds soon. If we don't establish this system, and the adoption of these laws is a condition for the establishment of that system, we're going to have to pay for those funds from the budget. So, I ask you to make a maximum effort, so if it is necessary to extend this deadline to the Commission, with the help of the Ministry, to get a proper indication of the amendments, to have these laws as soon as possible and to establish these institutions as soon as possible and to make this system operational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23701	I thank the Minister, and I am sure that this information on further procedure will be very useful, and here is this argument, especially the financial one, which Mr. Minister here underlined. We continue to discuss points 19, 20, 21. It was Mr. Matić's application. Are you still staying, Mr. Matić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23702	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests! Two of my colleagues were already talking about a session of the History of Transport and Communications. Here, in the absence of the president of this committee, I want to say something about it. And it wasn't until this committee, we were able to declare the amendments that day. The reason we didn't: we had clear warnings that by voting on the Committee in connection with the amendment that this could lead to the fall of these laws at the House of Representatives' meeting and therefore we requested a new deadline. The further reasons for the extension of the deadline are that, in the debate itself, there was no one to represent the Ministry of Transport and Communications. There were people present from the Civil Aviation Directorate, but no one was from the Ministry, and we heard in the discussion at the Committee that there were certain differences between 75 views of people from the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Ministry itself, as an authorised promoter, and therefore we did not engage in a declaration of amendments. We also heard the Minister's argument earlier, and it seems to me that it was in the light of these laws, it was pointed out that the laws were in line with the competent entity institutions, so that at the Committee, the President of the Commission, who comes from the RS, would tell us that he had reliable information and requests from the RS that such a thesis was not correct and that it was not all agreed and that he himself advocated that the amendment be delayed until these matters were cleared. After all, I agree that it would be no good if these laws fell. We also heard from the minister that this would also cause financial further damage to BiH, without the legal regulation of these significant areas. And I think it would be good, however, to extend the deadlines for the laws in paragraphs 19 and 20. I am not talking about this law in point 21, it may be a different problem, but it would be very harmful not to take advantage of the occasion and this significant area that has not been regulated at BiH level so that the airspace, in terms of control and in any other way, has been covered by the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia and thus BiH has lost certain financial revenues, so that we do not take advantage of the opportunity and, in the first reading, adopt these laws and, possibly, in the amendment phase, we continue to correct them. Actually, this is about amendments. We were prepared to accept a good part of the amendment at the Committee, given that they were positively shown by the Ministry. Here, for the famous reasons that I listed and some of my colleagues, we still asked for an extension of the deadline and I think we can do it at the next session of House of Representatives, 18, do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23703	I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on points 19, 20 and 21. Moving to point 22. Ad. 22. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment (first reading) You see from the report that no consent has been reached on the College as the Commission and we will decide in the second round of voting. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing on item 22, we're practically out of debate. We're still going to point 23. 76 Ad. 23. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Opinions on the 2009 Budget Law proposal for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this: - The Party of Democratic Action Club and - Poslanik of Remzija Kadrić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23708	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and guests, the report you received was written a while ago, so I would like to add some more recent information on the development of the "Autoput to Corridor Vc" project. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23709	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23710	Significant progress has been made in preparations for the construction of the highway in 2008. This progress can be seen through the following: technical documentation and main projects are being prepared in haste for about 165 km of highway. By means of credit agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank as well as the Kuwait Development Fund, credit funds amounting to over a billion KM for building priority shares in the Federation of about 70 km in length are planned. The RS government also signed a concession contract to plan to build this stock, its section of highway, as soon as these last technical conditions are created. Also, our ministry has prepared a draft of an interstate agreement with the Republic of Croatia on the joint construction of an interstate bridge on the Sava River, as well as on the alignment of the dynamics of the construction of border shares in the north and south of the highway. What's more important to say in a nutshell? To make spatial plans in both the RS and the Federation that will serve as the basis for issuing urban consent and building permits and, of course, for expropriation. In all this, it may be important to underline the conditions set out in credit agreements with European development banks that are necessary to meet BiH institutions in order for credit agreements to come into force and that the funds could be effective for spending. As the first and perhaps most important condition is to provide from fuel 10 fencing of the original revenues for the entities' highway directors, meaning through the Excise Act, and to make a decision on the allocation of those funds. The process is under way, and I expect to speed up their decision-making, law and decision-making. Also, one of the conditions in credit agreements is to adopt a public-private partnership strategy to secure the financing of these remaining shares... for which no credit assets are secured. There are deadlines in credit agreements for the adoption of a strategy and for the launch of a tender procedure for the choice of a private partner. It refers to the Federation, given that the RS did it. It is then necessary that the Council of Ministers ensure participation in financing the construction of an interstate bridge on the Sava and border crossing. It is also necessary to establish a high-level Supervisory Board from representatives of the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, which will oversee activities in preparation for the construction of the Corridor Vc highway. There are many more of these terms that are listed in the credit agreement and we believe will be met but we have singled out only these most important ones here. Here, for some questions, I'm here to answer. Thank you. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23711	Thank you, Mr. Kupusović, that's enough. Here comes Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23712	My colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Commission for Transport and Communications. After a broad discussion, the Transport and Communications Commission unanimously supported the Report and proposed to the House of Representatives to adopt a Report on activities on the project "Autoput to Corridor Vc" and Plan of Next Activities. However, the Commission is proposing to the House that it adopt three conclusions. The first is to ask the Council of Ministers to deliver a highway map to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly map on Corridor Vc, for the reason that there are certain dilemmas: whether the route is defined, whether the start and the end are defined." In order not to have these dilemmas, we have asked, that is, the House of Representatives to ask the Council of Ministers for a full insight into the highway map." The second conclusion is: 'It is necessary for the Council of Ministers of BiH to inform the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of what kind of repercusion on the position of the route Corridor Vc has the submission of a proposal from the Republic of Croatia to declare the Delta Neretva in the territory of Croatia as a protected area in terms of environmental protection'. This conclusion was actually made because of the dilemma about where the highway passes, i.e. where dots are connected with the Republic of Croatia, because Corridor Vc should have its end in Luce Ploče. And according to some map, which I have on me, it really ends up in Luce Ploche, but there are dilemmas about that there has been a certain turning of the highway route, or Corridor Vc across certain territories where, I don't say, there are personal interests of individuals. To avoid it, here we heard the gentleman who explained it to us. And that's why I suggest adopting this conclusion number two. Third conclusion: "The BiH Council of Ministers is asked to provide information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the realisation of the document on the coordination of highway funds and fast roads and the price of liquid fuels." There is, in fact, a particular document on special separation for building and maintaining highways in BiH. It seems to me that the Fiscal Council has approved it as well. And we, on the Commission, have suggested that this home also be asked by the Council of Ministers – what about this document, that is, when the application of certain funds from the price of a liter of fuel will take place. 79 Therefore, here I expect you, colleagues, to support the conclusions proposed by the committee in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23713	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23714	I'll do it for a while. Here, and I'm a member of the Transport and Communications Commission and we've been having a debate, too, here's a draft plan for the next activities, the things we need to do, we haven't done much, that's what counterpart Mehmedović said. In BiH, the least detached is from a liter of fuel across Europe, and the highest margin is the highest profit, so our distributors have extra margins and therefore we have petrol zeroes like mushrooms after the rain, every few kilometers. So the state needs to bring this, i.e. 10 fening per litre for road construction. We know that roads are important to everyone. There's no economy without good roads. He's a colleague of Mehmedović's, but there were a lot of questions on the Commission, and I would only apply a couple here. We know that Croatia has introduced a protection belt, an eco zone, a valley of the Neretva River, and it turns out that this Corridor Vc does not end in Luci Ploče. For us in BiH, Luka Ploce is the priority of all priorities and the question is: does this mean that BiH has given up that highway going to Luke Ploca and ending down? Is Croatia right, since... they accepted everything in Helsinki, does Croatia have the right to challenge construction without BiH's consent? We also know that no spatial plan has been adopted in the Federation and that it plans to build there on the left (ecology and debate). There's still a lot of problems here, and I think there's a lot of stuff that's been done past what's been drawn on Corridor Vc. The basic point: "Is this highway ending in Luci Ploche or not?" That's my question. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23715	Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23716	First of all, to express the satisfaction of finally having this topic, here in front of this home, which we have been expecting for years. I'm glad that the job has gone significantly, however, that now it's probably about billions of contracted and contracted transactions and that projects are doing a lot, so I'm sure they're implementing the main projects on the Corridor Vc track. I have three questions for Mr. Kupusović, so please write them down. '1st. What's anybody doing out of these stocks? What's the Federation doing, what's the RS doing, and what's the state level doing, the State Department? So, from what you've counted in the report, we know exactly what stock he's doing. 80 2. Then I wonder how much the highway costs and how much is a kilometer so far built, because we already have about 20 to 30 km, we can see about how those prices are moving, is it going within the plan, or is it something cheaper or more expensive? 3. And finally, this question about the record. Deviation was made, it turned towards Split. Will it be important to extend the path to the Panel or is it just one less acceptable deviation?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23717	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23718	Thank you. And I am pleased that this agenda point after two years has been here, so I suggest that all those in the election campaign talk about going on the highway, having a contract, bringing it in and showing it to us, so let's see what else needs to be done and how to move forward. I support these views of the Commission and I would just ask the Deputy Minister the question: 'What is the criteria for determining the course, which means to explain it to us, and on what basis? So, on the basis of the frequency, the number of inhabitants, and also to give an explanation for the future project: will there be tunnels, viaductors, bridges or will there be a path alone?" That's why I'm saying, if we make a real story, some of this is going to be, and if we make a story that we're going to stretch it to the next election, then most likely for the next election we're going to have a more creative story than the last two years. What I'd like to ask you right now. So, how much time do we need for this story we told, what Mr. Izetbegović said? We don't need strategies, gentlemen, we need concrete data, idea projects, and how to get to that, when the idea projects, which are track and adopt them, will be completed. So, don't bother us with strategies. What I'm still interested in: how and how will the expropriation be done? And that's where we have to have a clear attitude. Not to be all we've brought but here's the problem: they don't give people land and there's no way to finish the job. We need to see urban and construction permits, through all these powerful cantons and powerful laws and all the authorities by various combinations, means the question: are we going to get a uniform attitude and will there be a uniform attitude? And I'm interested, so when's the final project going to be? How are we going to build this? If we're going for oil, we know how much oil is sold, count and see how many miles it is. If we go to budgetary separation, we know what our budgets are, and we know that next year we're going to have a big budget problem, that we're going to have social problems that are going to be 81 in front of the highway. If we go to concessions, then give us a proposal of concessions and make both the law and the story of concessions and all those who are interested and not to philosophy in that direction. And I'd just like to add this, which my colleague just said, to give us a full report: so far, how, how the highways were made, how far they came, where they were funded, and that we know that story. If there's a question of concessions, it's likely that the concessionary will demand that he join this time. So we need to see who we're gonna negotiate with, who's funded this part of the trip so far. And what I would like to remind you is that Rumunija is ending its part of the road a great deal, Croatia has gone to the Adriatic Sea, Romanians are finishing the bypass upstairs, they need another bridge, and slowly these areas will no longer be interesting for concessionaries and will no longer have time to negotiate with us various topics and nebuloses that have been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23719	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23720	Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of RES. First question: 'Is it planned and planned as part of the production of Corridor Vc going to do collection houses in all places where it is necessary or will we actually be able to work as subsequent projects which, in some ways, will already derogate, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, significantly collect the construction of the highway?' Then I would ask: 'In what optimal time can be expected to realize the performance of the work on Josianica – Butil and Butil – Blažuaj, given that there has been a project documentation for many years on this bypass and on that part of the highway, and how long has it been known to me, and the financial resources provided?' What I'm interested in is this part of the highway that goes from Kaknja to Zenica, which should be realised very quickly, but on the first page, on the fourth side of this report, which dates back to January this year, it is said that it is in the phase of the development of the Space Plan of the Zenic-Doboj canton. Well, if it's in the design phase of the Expansive plan of the Women's Doboj canton, where the highways are already built, I'm curious how much will this design of the Space Plan, in a way, slow down the construction of the highway? I've heard a lot from local communities about the resistance of certain citizens and certain local communities and resistance related to the movement of the Corridor Vc route, so I'd like to ask for a report on the opinion of these local communities, local self-government, because it says that the position of the route is officially accepted by all municipalities. As far as I know, it's not officially accepted by all municipalities. 82 And just one more short question, and that is, "How many of this shifted flow of road is accumulated by an earlier, idea project of Corridor Vc?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23721	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23722	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, above all, I would like to express my satisfaction that the highway is definitely on its way to being built, and may be satisfied or dissatisfied with the pace of construction. I'm glad we got this report. However, we must mention some of the things that would be needed to get answers in this House. Why do I say that? The Commission has seen this and in this sense I want to repeat some of the issues that are very important. Speaking of Corridor, that doesn't mean building a highway. It's a fact belt that goes from somewhere and ends somewhere. Corridor Vc is a belt that covers the area of the highway and is plotted to go from Budapest to Luke Ploca. It means the Corridor that was adopted at European level and that was actually ratified by all the institutions in Europe, at least as far as the roads are concerned, and here's what's happening to us. We now have that there is a shift in the Corridor Vc route and that, according to new proposals, we have that our Corridor is literally ending in Mostar, and that from there it turns the highway on the highway that is now being built from Split, so it does not end in Luci Ploče. The question asked by the Commission: Who has made such a decision, when such a decision has been made, has it agreed with Croatia, has it agreed with European law on corridors? Because that's a very important question. The question that is in relation to those who appear and speak of certain things where, freely speaking, they cause the least surprise. The Republic of Croatia has made a decision to create a protection zone in the Neretva River Delta, meaning down from Mostar to Plots. Thus someone accepted to go to these talks without ratification or I don't know any agreement and this direction – then two possible directions were drawn – one went towards Neum and so on. Please, let's not talk about predicating Neum port to become a port, no speech, talk about the highway, talk about that corridor. And the second is that this corridor, i.e. the highway, turns the bridge below the Holidays, then goes over the Kravica waterfall, Trebizat and goes to Bijac, which means on the border between BiH and Croatia, and from there about 15 or 20 km, Mr. Kuposović, means the highway to go and go to Luka Ploče. If, here's the last case, the gas problem has shown, the talks that Croatia and BiH are going to catch the gas so that the gas ingested is being transported by some kind of pipeline from there, it says we couldn't go through that corridor from Ploč and we're asking an objective question, and here we have to get an answer. So, have the sides agreed to move the route to Corridor Vc from Mostar to the Tablets? Who is, and did they agree with it, the international community that declared Corridor Vc as a Corridor of Interest for Europe? 83 Other problems are problems within BiH and many here wanted or did not want to, but principles are a very important issue. The spatial plan in the Federation of BiH is a valid spatial plan, which is BiH's plan, the Spacious Plan of BiH. By moving the direction this time from the practically plotted route, this direction is going to the Holiday through Trebižat and going to Biač, and then the decision is made to make a spatial plan – quite the opposite of the laws! I'm not saying anything, I think it should be respected, and through the debate we should also hear in this House our public, the curtural, cultural public, I think, in charge of environmental and culture, the environmental public, of passing the highway on these sites. If anyone wasn't at the waterfalls, at the Kravica Falls, I would recommend, because these are the Bosnian Herzegovina Plitvice Lakes. I mean, my vision, I'd recommend you do it. And the third thing where you see in this report is not the means. Mr. Kupusović, a total of around 480 million, seems to me, the euro, is thus provided through credit funds. So, right now, it's a very important question of the project documentation that colleagues have put in place. What are these building paths? And one thing that hasn't been mentioned here, and we've been reading it on this transport and communications committee, where one part of the stock isn't, I'd say, financially sustainable, but it's proposed to go to a public-private partnership. Republika Srpska has the Law on Public-private Partnership, and means if the problem is to occur in RS, then they can resolve it on the RS-based section. As for the Federation of BiH, we don't have this law and it would be good, I don't know how, I mean, it would be good if we could suggest to the FBiH Parliament that or the Federation to pass this law on public-private partnership, so that some of the shares that are not self-sustainable in this part of it from, I would say, from Konjic down towards Mostar or I don't know where, you know, Mr Kupusović, we could give it to such construction, and then only after that could we get the total highway, i.e. Corridor Vc, and his economic sustainability. The questions asked by the members of the Commission, I think they are correct. Just, not wanting to stop building the highway, I think we need to give these answers the support, the maximum support of this project, with a note that I would like to, I would personally like it to be a state highway. Unfortunately, he is who he is, but let's give maximum support to get answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23723	I hope, Mr. Kupusović, that you record all this, there are a lot of questions. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23724	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23725	Nope, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23726	Can I talk to you later? 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23727	It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23728	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think to talk about this today, about this item of the agenda, thinking that it's been well discussed for more than 30 years. But looking at certain things here in this report, I was amazed. I remained astounded because those municipalities... that kept track which had been established 30 years ago, which did not give their citizens construction facilities, which they did not allow to destroy that ambience that should be created – were put to work in 2017. By what criteria did these experts do, when we know that certain municipalities... were on the highway that was drawn up by the republican highway construction plan even during that system of roads completely destroyed by working certain objects and now the route needs to be moved and these municipalities have been given the priority of construction over those who have preserved the route and where the issues of property-legal relations have been resolved. To whom did it occur to me that the stock of Doboj South, which mainly goes across the municipality of Tešanj towards Zenica, puts the shares of Doboj in construction in 2017? And that's why I've been raised up to have people who represent the Ministry answer to this question: why is there such an attitude here, and there's not even a note in what way could that stock be built? And I guarantee there is no part of the route that property relations are better done and preserved for the construction of that section of the highway than in the municipality of Tešanj.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23729	Shall we, Mr. Križanović?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23730	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, a good part of what I was thinking was already asked as a question and a certain comment was given. I would like to remind us of some who were in this home in 2003 that at that time we were barely able to dispute in some way the Council of Ministers' plan to end 'The Highway on Corridor Vc' in five years. How much was that enough, shall I say, unserious approach? By contrast, we today have a report on the activities done and running on Corridor Vc. What I'm saying is, I mean, the correct thing is this report, there's nothing to object to here really. People did what they did. But what's the problem for me is that we don't have a single policy in BiH when it comes to building a highway. We don't have a single policy as a serious state that has a serious international obligation to build one of the highways on Corridor Vc. And we now have certain deadlines here... and a number of activities that show that we still don't have a clear path, yet. We don't have the files. We have some studies that are the basis of good, but we have no realisation. We still don't have a series of activities that are necessary to start construction. 85 The second question is that we don't manage as a state and it is a matter of stock priorities. You see, for example. We do this section of the Sarajevo-Zenica highway. It was the best trip in BiH, the safest, the fastest trip. It wasn't a problem at all. That might have been left at the last stage of work. __________? [[no microphone turned on]] You from Pupils later. So we have so many plugs, so many problems on that route through BiH that we could simultaneously remove these problems and build the highway. And we're causing a disturbance on the best section of the highway, that is, on that route that will pass. What am I saying? If we really could, I say, accept this report, there's nothing to add to it. However, this country lacks a single construction policy for this highway. In a year's time, this 12th and 17th years will be moved for another year, and we'll be swallowing these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23732	Are there any more reported? Jozo, do you have any intention of continuing? Any more questions, discussion? There isn't. I am concluding the debate, i.e. giving Mr. Kupusović the opportunity to answer some questions, possibly, but make sure there are no other 50 questions and replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23733	Here, I'd like to start chronologically. Mr. Izetbegović asked what the Federation is doing, what the RS is doing and what BiH institutions are doing. I'm building on political issues. I'll be specific about what he's doing. For example, BiH signed a credit agreement with both the EBRD and the EIB as a partner to European banks and is now a partner to the Kuwaiti Fund. In order to sign the credit agreement, too, it is necessary to prepare a lot to reach that agreement. Then BiH deals with Croatia at the same time as the construction of border shares so that traffic flows smoothly in both the north and the south. According to current practice, joint communication facilities, such as the Sava bridge, are always funded 50%, yes, and this is the level of BiH. Border crossings are also the level of BiH. The advantage is to do major projects in large lengths, because some things are typical, the same standards are achieved and faster can be done and better quality, to say the least. And, our ministry, therefore, as stated in the report, manages the construction of main projects for 130 km, 46 km in RS and the rest in the Federation, and this part is done by the Federal Directorate's institutions, also by the shares Kakanj – Drivusa and Vlakovo – Tarcin, as contracting entities of the main projects. As for the cost of construction of the highway, it is a little difficult to be precise, since there is a very large difference in prices, depending on the loops, on the conditions of the terrain. And what has been built so far has been the expansion of the existing first phase of the highway that was built in the 1970s by Sarajevo – Zenica, so the expropriation and the construction organisation itself is cheaper and easier and these prices are probably something 86 lower than the average price. The average price on the other shares on which the project was done means other than Kaknja, Kakanja – Vlakovo, the other 291 km is about 10m euros per km and without tax, without VAT, right. As far as this deviation was concerned, it refers to, let me say, a modification in relation to Bosnia's spatial plan, the SR BiH, which was adopted in '81. A year ago, so 28 years ago. In 28 years, so much has changed on the ground, and the principles of some design have changed, so it must be a quality project, it has also been confirmed by the signatures of international bank and European Commission experts and it has been supported and credited. As part of these banks, there are experts on technical issues that check the correctness and documentation and quality. And, not to be too immodest, it has been said that they should be seen for such documentation by the neighbouring country in the region, including, I don't know, Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia and others, on the documentation that has been made... by our ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23734	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23735	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23736	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23737	Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23738	This is an optimal route, given the many restrictions in the space and it has been dragged through the needle ears, through the southern part, given the environmental protection criteria, and with agreement with all municipalities, on which the Hercegovic-Neretva canton has issued confirmation that they have received consent from the municipalities and that they support the position of the route. This has also been confirmed in public debates and a positive solution has been obtained from the Ministry of Environmental Protection on this study and the environmental impact that treated that route where it was dragged. So, all the administrative procedure is, and that's why we got commendation from the EBRD, and that credit agreement was signed, following their assessment of the project, in October of last year. What are the criteria for determining the route? A multi-critical analysis is required, there are over 60 criteria, it's done software, they compare different variations, and then the one that gets the most points is considered to be the highest quality. If some of the two routes get about the same points, then they're still trying to see if there are any defects and things like that. There are books about it and it's a specific profession. How long does it take us to do all this? According to literature, about six years of work is an Idea project and a main faasis study project and achieves urban consent and construction 87 permits, in case we are well organized. Since we're not always the best organized, it means it's a minimum, and I think we're going to get past that deadline, given that we're working intensively on the paperwork. As far as the Idea Project is concerned, it's done. So, the Federation made several decisions, the Federation government and the FBiH Parliament which confirmed the same route from the Idea project and made a decision on the public interest in the course in terms of the design and the Space Plan... the characteristics of the highway on the Corridor Vc that is being done. There is also the Spatial Plan of the Federation and they are using all of our studies and analyses and track positions that we have predicted. Eventually, there are some minor adjustments for justifiable reasons, mostly environmental protection. As for the question of whether we need a strategy. We don't need, perhaps, some strategy in some other sense, but in terms of the plan of financing the highway as a whole. So, we call it the Highway, conditional, Svilaj – Bijač, but we can't call it Budapest – Ploče, we are not in charge of shares throughout Croatia and through Hungary. So we should have, otherwise we would cheat the banks, because they would say that we will have attracted traffic, that we will have a lot of traffic from Central Europe, and if we don't build at least two-thirds of the highway by the end of 2012, such as... the study, then it would turn out that we were incorrect, right, that there won't actually be any attractive traffic, many will go, I don't know, by some route highway Zagreb – Split, etc., instead of being attracted by this part of Osijek towards Sarajevo and Lucy Ploče. The track – in my opinion, which I have been dealing with for the last six or seven years with this problem – has been pushed really optimally. There are some and some observations in the press, we see it, but it is really a minimum of these sensitive areas, such as agricultural areas, threatened, and everything else is downgraded, a field that can't be used for nothing, so from the point of view of other space users, everything has been seen and done maximumly in public debates and in NGOs, for example, in Herzegovina and others, of course. A sentence, so they wouldn't know how to pull the track themselves as the designer managed to pull through, and not to say, very ideal, which goes close to these, let's say, nature parks like the waterfall of the Kravica on Trebizat and so on. So most of these experts who deal with the team think they need to get relatively close to using these monuments of nature and that protected area for tourist purposes without jeopardizing that area. If you go far with communication, what's abandoned by communication will be dead. So most environmental experts and cultural monuments think, and others think that they should leave and leave, I don't know, just a few people to come especially to some tourist destinations. So, the power to build, to expropriate, to issue applications and building permits is at the levels of the RS and the Federation, of course. So, we are also working on the main project for the RS-based stock, working intensively with the RS-led ministries. They have another one in RS, or we have a problem which is also done by hydropower plants in the valley of Bosnia for concessionaires and all of this is consistent with the general satisfaction of obtaining an optimal project and that more users of space are in a narrow zone here. This question about the speed of building a 'Sarajevo bypass',...we as much as we can possibly help something, but it is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Road Directorate... Construction is under way (Lot 1) from the Butil loop, including the Butil loop to Josianica, and Lot 2, due to expropriation, it is the approach to Sarajevo, the approach to the city, late because the expropriation has not been resolved yet. 88 For this Lot 3 no construction permit has yet been obtained, nor has the main project been completed until the end audited and completed, and so that the project is unfortunately delayed, and these credit funds have been provided. These spatial plans that are being done are ideal, in my view, being done parallelly with the main project, because then we have a mutual alignment of quality solutions in terms of users of space and in terms of a wider area that is then treated better, so that the project becomes more developmental, not just a flow of traffic from remote destinations to another destination, because through these spatial plans, business areas are projected near the loop and somewhere some land is transformed by the rules of the profession or by an appropriate procedure from agricultural to smaller places, but it also happens in building land, which is necessary for development. He can't stay a farm where he's near the loop, with the loop itself. The loop is like a factory that generates development itself. It was a question of how far along the road was the building? So, according to the Space Plan 28 years ago, she was heading towards Metkovic, towards Obuzena pa Metkovica. That stock was abandoned, like it was abandoned for example. The highway Zagreb – Split via Bihać, such as many trails abandoned, something for administrative reasons, and here, what Mr Bešlagić was saying, mostly because Croatia in its borders, within the territory of Croatia, the delta of Neretva proposed to the European institutions that value be protected wetland area. And when such a plan is submitted, the request is automatically recommended not to build large infrastructure facilities because it would change the appearance of such a valuable area itself. And that's one, too, for reasons like us and Hutt's mud, in Tito's period, after that '81. years, declared Nature Park and determined its dimensions, greater than original and similar. So, as far as the profession is concerned, it must be all studied and satisfied and there are no problems with the local community or environmentalists and there are no problems with the law. It's a new spatial plan. Existing with some places can't be respected, because no matter how much someone can build... not taking care of the BiH Space Plan, we can't crash some refugee settlements on the highway, but we're going to the areas that are suitable for the highway. About this stock, as it is said, through Tešanj, it is the same according to the rules of the profession. I also may have liked to have this stock done earlier than Doboj South through the municipality of Tešanj to Zepč, to Omica, but economists, who specialize in pre-fissibility and fissibility studies, believe that the stock is an optimal Doboj – Zenica, as one traffic functional unit and did not consider it to be a two-part piece piece. So it turned out to be collateral damage to that subdivision of Zepce – Teshanj, because this second stock has withdrawn, as with a degree of profitability much lower, and this share through Teshanj. As far as priority is concerned, it's been examined and checked so many times. Some very minor were objections and priorities were set based on prefissibility study. So, suppose it's going to be built theoretically all over eight years, it's going to be divided into traffic functions, what we said, for example. One is the whole of Zenica – Doboj, the other is Doboj – Sava, the third is Zenica – Kakanj, here Tarcin – Konjic, Konjic – Jablanica, Jablanica – Mostar and Mostar – the border south. And they shared it so that they thought that traffic was the most coming and going in those functional units, and based on the rate of economic return for each of these shares, because it was seen which was more profitable and 89 that was not, which is less profitable. The ones that are cheaper are the first stage, there. So it turned out, according to the rules of the profession, so it turned out, what now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23739	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23740	No, Mr. Bahtić, speak man, here's half an hour, let's take it easy. Here you go, wrap it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23741	In general, the highway has been accumulated in all countries lately due to increasing environmental protection requirements, water protection, nature protection, and so perhaps the highway is relatively more expensive than it would have been to work 20 years ago or I don't know when. There, I think I've circled.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23742	Is it going to the record or isn't it going?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23743	It goes straight, shortest to the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23744	Please, Bahtić. I thank you, Mr. Kupusović, for your exhaustive answers. It wouldn't be bad to look at the information again, there are answers we've heard here, but it's standing there. I don't know, Mr. Bešlagić, if you're such a little replica of him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23745	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23746	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23747	I am pleased that we had a representative of the Republic of Croatia to protect natural beauty or better said in Croatia. I'm really interested in why we couldn't convince our Croatian friends that we wanted to go to Luka Ploche, not to go on some access road. Why couldn't we convince our Croatian friends that Kravica, Trebizac is the beauty that will come and visit people from Croatia, and not only must we... 90 and one more question. Why the Republic of Croatia, it could have taken the highway closer to Plitvice Lakes, but it got away well from Plitvice Lakes and thank her for keeping it well. Not wanting to argue anything, please, let this be taken that maltenes I haven't discussed, you have to give an answer to what... The Commission for Transport and Communications said – when, who made the decision to adopt the Corridor Vc, adopted at European level and ending in the Plates, why did it change? Who approved, when and how? Here, with that answer, I accept all of what you said, and I'd like to say one thing to everyone. If the highway pretends to be made now this highway from Kaknja, we're out of 10 years. I went that way yesterday. Five machines work on the entire section of the road, and the conditions are created to work. So leave it, we'll discuss it, you're not competent, but if we have to, we have to get an answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23748	A little patience, please. Here we go, pretending like you said, you didn't even discuss it. Here's to closing the argument, of course, if no one answers their word anymore. I thank Mr. Kupusović once more. Let's go to point 25. Ad. 25. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in 2008 (the BiH Directorate for European Integration material) Therefore, the material prepared by the Directorate for European Integration is used, unfortunately, by the initiator and the applicant and applicant. What? Mr. Genjac, what's this about? There is no Mr. Nanić who insisted, but here I see that the Commission for European Integration has been very up-to-date, even today here I see in the session there is also an opinion, here is Mr. Halid Genjac reporting already. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23750	Given the importance and need to discuss really the conditions and processes of European integration and the problems that arise, Mr Nanić's initiative to discuss... progress report is indeed justified. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23751	Well, of course, we supported it and put it on, that's already the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23752	However, we have reached the conclusion as both homes that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is quarterly, so every three months he submits reports on the implementation of the Action Plan of commitments under the agreement and the Action Plan of the European Partnership Priorities. So these are concrete things, one thing at a time, where progress is what is in progress, what is done, what has not been done. And a really productive debate on the progress report is only possible if we have a report, let's see what's done and then compare it to the situation in this report. Discussing the very report, which is a huge document with a lot of general qualifications, is very ungrateful. For this reason, since the College has directed this initiative on the Commission, we decided yesterday to recommend to the co-workers of both homes to convene a thematic session within about 30 days, which I think is realistic, and to discuss the overall state of the process of BiH's progress towards European integration with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23753	I thank you, Mr. Genjac. And I absolutely understand what you're talking about, but these initiatives, here are the frequent demands for these thematic sessions, we need to see, therefore, the capacity and timing of all these initiatives whether we can provide. So, as far as the House of Representatives' College is concerned, absolutely, you've seen some situations and a debate on whether a plenary, who called, what he called, etc. So we need to coordinate it a little bit with the House of Peoples, provide material from the Council of Ministers, etc. But in any case, this initiative will be reviewed through procedures, of course, and through today's vote treated. Have there been any reports of this report? Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23754	Oh, here, today I got an emergency from the College to pretend that I'm going to make a proposal in front of the club for this year on the subject that should be found in front of the House, the more important subject, is it? Here's one of the most important topics. And what did we get? They just passed on what was done outside of BiH. So you're there warning us that none of the clubs this year delivered what you're looking for. The first year I made this material, if you remember, I made you a little bit of a pain in the ass with it, so last year I cut it in half, but it's already starting to give in to enthusiasm, and this year I didn't deliver anything, so the man feels a little senseless. If we can't bring people here to tell us, to make a cut, or in three months, or in a year, or in a year, so that we know where we are, where the problems are, what to solve, then it's already getting a little bit pointless, and I don't think this is a relationship to the work of the Council of Ministers dealing with this subject and this home. If he's not going, let them come, and let them say he's not going, that we know where we are and where we are. I mean, this really isn't the way. I think 92, now I'm saying something that floats in the air here, what everyone thinks, and this is how they treat themselves, how they've acted today, is below criticism.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23755	So, you need to explain a little bit. Mr. Nanić had an initiative and asked for a review of the report. We expanded a little and added another document that we felt was important and we went towards the Commission. The Commission has given us opinions and we will do our best. So we have the opinion that we need the report Mr. Špirić made publicly the other day. So we need him officially here. And as for the Council of Ministers' relationship, as far as I'm concerned, I'll be here next time the paper comes with these signatures, and I'll sign it if it continues like this. Okay, so if there's anyone else reported. We have Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23756	Mr. Chairman, I will briefly, therefore, but indeed take the situation seriously when it comes to this topic in BiH. I don't think we have more important topics in BiH in order to cross over these very important things on an arbitrary basis for the BiH state. I therefore think that we should take the Council of Ministers seriously, especially in the field of these developments when it comes to the Directorate for European Integration and all that it has for the consequence of the behaviour of the BiH Council of Ministers. So here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23757	I apologize, Mr Ahmetović. We need to be correct and fair, we didn't ask for, look, these are documents, these aren't our documents, and these are our Directorate's documents, we got it through them, etc. We're procedurally just asking for an opinion from this committee. We didn't ask the Council of Ministers. Now, if we adopt this recommendation and opinion, of course we will ensure that the thematic session with the materials and the Council of Ministers is followed, this is what Mr. Genjac was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23758	But I want to say that there must be no problem in terms of what you said, the College, the relations between the Council of Ministers, the promoters of this topic etc., etc., if we really want one serious and responsible way to access everything that is our obligation to BiH when it comes to its European path. I think, therefore, that is the public opinion in BiH. With ordinary citizens when you talk, you think, mostly people think this topic is a subject, so it's not serious enough when it comes to this topic in BiH, here I am. Thank you very much. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23759	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23760	I'll do it very briefly. I think that not only is this an important topic, but it should be the central theme of this state and this Parliament. Unfortunately, this signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and before that this was not the central theme of this parliament or the authorities in this country. I just want to remind myself of what the people of the Commission have been talking about, and that is that we have already adopted the conclusion of both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples that we will have the opportunity to discuss every three months in Parliament this report that will be delivered to us by the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Council of Ministers has not done so far and I think it is not necessary and it is not correct to transfer all responsibility here from Parliament to the Council of Ministers. Especially not, let me say correctly, if some MPs wish to transfer it from the ruling parties within the Council of Ministers, because in the Council of Ministers there are the same people sitting in the ruling six. I only say that for one thing. Namely, the BiH Parliament, or the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, have mechanisms to make it possible for the Council of Ministers to see it, and we all know it very well. This total unhappiness, the total ignoring of the main topics for BiH by the Council of Ministers can be sanctioned if people who make up the parliamentary majority want to do so, can also be serious if they also want to do so, and it looks a little degutant if from here the ruling parties come criticism about the work of the Council of Ministers. I don't know why they can criticize more? So they can't meet for more than half a month to see why one of the first people was arrested in the fight against terrorism and crime in the country, let alone other things. Not to mention all the other topics. Therefore, there are clear mechanisms that the Council of Ministers can be brought into order as well as normal governments as possible in other countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23761	It's a little Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23762	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am reporting for the proposal of this conclusion proposed here by our Joint Commission for European Integration. The proposal for this conclusion is in that sense: if you don't want to do anything, then suggest this conclusion, and I'll tell you why. Unfortunately, we have problems here with the Council of Ministers' and this Parliament's relationship, and that is what every session says, the presence of members of the Council of Ministers at Parliament's session, even when the agenda points are discussed from the competence of concrete mines. That's visible, and today we've had this case and it's not the first time, unfortunately, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers I don't remember the last time I saw it at the session. And that's not the biggest problem, let me just say it right now. We have a problem and we're in action, and that's why I started out like this, our Joint College, because we have trouble calling 94 a joint college with colleagues in the House of Peoples, I want to publicly say it here, we have a terrible problem finding an appropriate term that suits them. Here, Mr. Belkić tried to schedule a session the other day, they don't fit the term, they don't offer any other term, so I said, if you don't want to do something, suggest a joint session of both homes, because by the time we call the Joint College, you'll ask Bog how long. That's why I'm in favor of us turning to the work of this home and that means all these topics that need to be updated and analyzed here at the session of this house. And unfortunately, here, I have to agree with some colleagues that this issue, except in the declarative terms, is not a central issue in BiH, because if we had at least, here, we have found maybe an hour ago how many hours ago in a friendly tone alerted by an outgoing high representative on several examples where we show our seriousness, or indifference in access to these jobs. We don't have a director of the European Integration Directorate today. So it's just up to us. As if we didn't know that his mandate would expire, as if we didn't know that man was going, as if we hadn't, it's taking too long, and we don't have a director of the Directorate for European Integration today. So this is what we're talking about today. We wait six months to appoint BiH Ambassador to Brussels, where the European administration is based and where we should have another 15 or 55 diplomats to show that our priority, our real desire is European integration. So this is what I'm saying about a few technical issues, which I really don't think are political, aren't something that's so complex that it can't be solved, that we show the true will and desire of what we want. And the only thing that stays is that the colleagues I think have had a good intention, means the Joint Committee that... Joint College, I don't know how many chairmans of this committee are mandated to redefine this conclusion. But I think it's better if we don't accept this conclusion, because I think we'll wait a while to realize it. We better redefine it in a certain way, here's Mr. Genjac can certainly do it in quality and do it in the context of this House, invite the chairman and all the members of the Council of Ministers to this session and see whose obligations are from that European road and see why some have not been carried out? And indeed, I've just listed two or three, there are many of them that are really easy and I don't see any reason why we don't realize them and then show that we really want to work and contribute on this European path.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23763	Živković. But I'm sorry, replica, I have two replicas. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23764	I signed up for the replica, but it's not a classic replica. I mean, I got up because of this sentence, and I'd like Mr. Belkić to hear me. Namely, Mr. Lozančić said that it was very difficult to agree with the College of the House of Peoples, and even here you all said that they do not give a term etc. I am now publicly asking the question: What do people in the House of Peoples do during one month? And as far as I know, the public, what we're following, meets at least twice in one month, two days. And we know what the receivings of all the messengers and delegates are in the House of the Peoples. For so many receiving 95 twice have a session in the month and still refuse, as you say, your proposal not to give you an appointment, it's really a little too much. My proposal is therefore to really try to inform them and warn them, they are still an equal House in the Parliamentary Assembly. To say that you will inform the entire public that they do not want to work out of the interests of the citizens of BiH and the whole country. They're getting paid, and they won't work for what they're paid for. I really, if that's the case, please make a press conference and inform the entire public, if that's the case. Because we can't function differently, these are both homes. On the side now as the House of the Peoples has been recruited.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23765	Denise, to whom the replica was, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23766	I said the replica to Mr. Lozančić's exposure, with that I said it wasn't a classic replica, but I was the only one under the replica company who could say what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23767	So, the College will find a way to make its commitments, Mr. Lozančić did not want to open the topic of the work of the People's House. The people's home is autonomous, they can discuss etc., it's about the following: it's very difficult to provide thematic conferences, thematic conferences, it's a leprosy. And, as far as I understand it, he's opening a dilemma to think about what's more rational, faster to do, when it comes to these initiatives. But I assure you we will provide communication with the College of the People's House and provide thematic sessions, if you insist on having all thematic sessions, no problem. I still have a replica of Genjac Gentleman. Who, Mr. Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23768	Actually, Mr. Beriz, if we could just get a little communication into... because Mr. Lozančić asked me to answer, well, I'd like to answer. That's all it is. In fact, the motive of the Joint Commission on European Integration was indeed what you said, since they have identical conclusions on both homes to discuss it three months ago. And since the topic is urgent and since the topic is important and there is no more important topic, that was motive. However, I agree absolutely with both the chairman and you that there are problems with the thematic sessions, and we do not insist on it at all, and we have the possibility, since the initiative of MPs from the House of Representatives, since we can act on every conclusion, we have that possibility, and so can I. So, just to add to this conclusion... sentences: 'Unless there is an opportunity for a joint thematic session, the debate will be held at the House of Representatives' session within that deadline.' That's the conclusion I think you can adopt. Thank you. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23769	I don't know what the misunderstanding is. So, I have tried, if we have listened, so Mr Nanić has fully justified the initiative to debate the European Commission's document, which was translated by the European Integration Directorate, so the European Commission's document here. That's what I told you once. We decided on the College to get this opinion, put it on the agenda and get the Commission's opinion. Only now does the Commission propose that we ask the Council of Ministers what they have done according to the report, etc. As soon as we get that, if you figure out it's plenary, we'll go to the plenary room. If we can't, we'll report this home, "We're in no condition, gentlemen, will you hold our session and we'll have our session." And it's all right. We don't have a difference in approach here at all. Milorad Živković. Excuse me, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23770	Look, I don't want to leave a dilemma whether someone understood me or didn't understand me, and as he understood me, there's no need for anyone to translate me, I think I've been clear enough. So I don't want to take responsibility for the work of another home. I don't think I have the right to comment on the work of that other home. I agree that we are completely equal to two homes. I want to take responsibility for the work of this house, for the work of this college. I correctly informed during my chairmanship of this house, we held only two meetings of the Joint College. I have experience in trying to call the Joint College sessions. We have experience now. So, we have a problem with terms,... too busy, I'm not getting into why they're too busy, nor do I have the right to get into it, but obviously we have a problem. So, if you didn't call us here, why don't we schedule these sessions, which you're asking us to, I want you to know the full and true truth. That's true. And so, no additions. Secondly, this, I agree, I think this is the solution. So I thank Mr. Genjac, I mean the solution, if there is a possibility, because we should have had these topics by now, but obviously we don't have them. So, our deadlines are running out. We draw conclusions that are not realized. You know, the problem is, and we keep getting new conclusions, new conclusions keep coming up, and we don't realize the previous conclusions. So, to be in a position to catch up, surely it is actual and true to honor the 30 - day period, to organise within that time a thematic session with the House of Nations or without the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23771	We still have a reported discussion of Živković. May I have your attention, please? Maximum attention, please. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23772	Thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, obviously we're a little tired and we're not following, let's say, enough quality debate. Namely, the agenda item is defined, which is here, and it says 'The BiH Progress Report 2008' according to the initiative adopted by this home, and on the proposal of Mr Husein Nanić and that material you have. Our Joint Commission for European Integration has delivered an opinion, which I do not think is appropriate in the way the Commission is making an opinion, because it simply did not make it call for Article 64. The Rules of Procedure, where it is mandatory for this House, in order for this House to put an end to the agenda at all, to deliver its opinion and which should say that in relation to this material, as requested by the College, this commission has been designated and that its conclusions should be a conclusion, not an opinion. We also have another Commission opinion that has been magically come today, which concerns the next item of the agenda or some, which again does not call for a member of the Rules of Procedure to which the Commission is obliged in such a way as to work and deliver an opinion to this House, and in accordance with that opinion, that is, in the context of that opinion, may also be the conclusion that this House will propose. I ask you from this committee to return to the framework of the Rules of Procedure, to list the members you are handling to make an opinion of this home. And we here now have a conclusion that might suggest this commission: that it believes that these materials are not enough and that, in accordance with previous conclusions, we should also have what the Council of Ministers will give us about this progress, not just that we have a translation of the European Commission's document and that we organise a joint session with the House of Peoples, if the College of Parliamentary Assembly manages to organise such a session. And there ceases any discussion about who's guilty, how guilty he is, etc., etc. Please return to the agenda and return to the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23773	Here, let's get back to the fact that we're done discussing this agenda point. We're going to point 26. And I'm asking you to get a little serious. Ad. 26. The final report on the implementation of the action plan of the medium-term development strategy BiH 2004-2007. (PRSP) and economic trends, Annual Report 2007 of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate It is the material of the Economic Planning Directorate whose director is present, Mrs. Ljerka Marić, I welcome it. We got the materials in December, so December 10th. The College forwarded the final report to the relevant Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development. On 10.12., she submitted the Final Report and, as you can see, received it, 98 The Final Report took note and adopted certain conclusions contained in the Commission Report. So she took in knowledge, gave a positive opinion, and adopted a number of conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Željko Kuzmanović called.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23775	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished guests, since I am first behind this House's speaker, before I begin my discussion, I am taking the opportunity to commend my fellow Members and you for the culture of communication that is ruling in this House and I must admit that I am pleasantly surprised. On my own, I would like to commend the work of all those institutions that have managed to implement or implement a large part of the action plan's action plan, but there are still a few objections that I would like to highlight at this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23776	A little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23777	I'll refer to the results of point 2. The general development priority, which reads: 'Increasing private investments'. I think it's a little bit done to develop entrepreneurship and create a favourable investment climate. They are listed here, for me, defeating acts that say BiH is 150th in the world to get reliefs for starting work and collecting licenses, respectively, at 144th place in registering property. I think that in this area, you can, after all, and you have to work more in the future, and I'm putting the accent on the departments in charge. In addition, an interesting piece of information is listed here that makes BiH 13th in the world easier to obtain credit. I don't know how much this data is affected by the fact that the largest creditors are micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of micro-credit organisations that lend to businessmen under extremely unfavourable conditions, or at interest rates that have no developmental character. Here, of course, I don't call microcredit organisations but responsible institutions that don't work enough to support and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that in the future, concrete actions and laws, we will provide a more favourable business climate. If we had done so in time and adequately, we would now be much more comfortable in welcoming the economic crisis, which is, unfortunately, already present with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23778	Mehmed Suljkanović. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23779	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I hope not to take up a lot of time, but I would like to say a few words about this agenda point. It is said here that this is the final report on the implementation of the action plan of the medium-term development strategy 2004-2007. (PRSP). Let me remind you, it's actually an acronym from the English term "Paverty Reduction Strategy paper". So the document began its life in the last term. It was created by the Directorate for Economic Planning. Meanwhile, the Economic Planning Directorate has devalued the Economic Planning Unit, and if our relationship to these documents continues to be this way, I suppose there will be no more Economic Planning Units in the coming period. In fact, within the framework of the Directorate, or this Unit, a lot of work has been arranged. In the previous term, we also had several joint sessions, plenary sessions of both homes. There was this discussion about these materials, which were performed at our home, and they were all performances. Unfortunately, the documents were always, in a certain way, pastors and this home, simply such a relationship was not of particular importance. I think there's been an extremely big mistake here. And I would, as well as the previous debater, get a little bit ahead of the next point on the 29th, these are the initiatives of our esteemed colleagues. I think that from the material, from everything that has been done in the medium-term development strategy, it is more serious that these problems that are waiting for us and everything that is waiting for us to take on the plan of the future, or recession in which we are already, then the global crisis, etc., it is certainly one thing that we took more seriously everything that came from the Economic Planning Directorate, or the Economic Planning Unit, to make it very different today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23780	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23781	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would look back on only two segments from this medium-term development strategy. The first segment is science, and the second segment is health care. As far as science is concerned, I'd like to say that in the next period, special attention should be focused on providing preconditions for the development of science and scientific research at universities, especially since '90. to date, means almost 18 years, a significantly reduced rate of separation for scientific research, and in fact, in some ways, I am launching the initiative to plan more funding for scientific research work, which would fully incorporate with the Framework Law on Higher Education, which would, in a certain way, provide conditions for the functioning of the academic community and create adequate conditions for the development of society as a whole. As far as the health segment is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the information that we are facing through this strategy, which is that we have in fact an increase in certain, above all, medical-social problems among citizens, which is that we have significant problems and phenomena that 100 end in health difficulties due to the use and use of tobacco, alcohol and drugs, as well as problems related to antisocial behaviour, violence, depression, suicide and other broad spectrum of various physical and mental disorders. At the same time, we have problems that are not surrounded by this strategy, which are problems of inequality and inequality in health care, problems of lack of coverage of health insurance and control of collection of contributions. Then, by not networking the entity and cantonal health systems from which he emerged, and for many years present, the phenomenon of inequality of the health care package. About health corruption, I don't want to talk about it, since it's been my primary activity for almost 30 years, but I'd like to draw attention to these three segments that have been apostrophe here and I don't think anything has been done about it. And that is, firstly, the corruption of persons responsible for the purchase of goods in health institutions and capital investment, and then the conflict of interest through favouring private practices during work in a public institution and the corruption of some healthcare professionals in terms of "payment below the table" for services provided in public institutions. This third one, in fact, has been going through the phenomenon of health corruption for years, although I could actually say very responsibly that this third phenomenon may be present in five to ten healthcare professionals, that almost 90%, certainly, health professionals and health professionals do not have this phenomenon of corruption. But that's a phenomenon where actually those five to ten point fingers and muds the reputation of these 90. What I would still, in the end, actually just want to say, is that, in fact, there is no adequate public health institute at the level of the BiH state is actually a factor that, in some ways, obstructs promotion and health prevention. We must through health reform, in the future, educate our citizens that health is a privilege obtained by birth and that each individual is responsible for his own health, that he is responsible for safeguarding that health, and the public-health sector and the public-health system would be, in fact, a system that would have that primary goal. Medical institutions of the type of primary health care should, first of all, be involved in prevention and promotion of health, and in sick people, of course, health professionals and employees, and I would actually like to apostrophy, as I would say, an imperative of forming a public health institution at the level of the state, which would deal with human health, since it is actually a disease, when it happens, something that knows absolutely no limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23782	Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23783	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, and I would like to point out that a great success is that today we have a report on the agenda, and that this would be a good practice for both the future and the adoption of the strategy and the reporting, the mandatory homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly take an active part in this. 101 I would point out that this report follows the completion of the formal monitoring phase of the implementation of the medium-term development strategy, which ended in December 2007. The Commission notes that the medium-term development strategy has been prepared at national level by the first document, for which monitoring and preparation of the report has been ensured. What has been done is recorded to see what needs to be done further. Reports have been prepared so far on a semi-annual basis. Six reports have been prepared, and this final one has been prepared with some modified methodology, taking into account both the political and economic associations. Six workshops were held on which the report was presented with an NGO and government sector, as well as a business where six priorities were discussed from this Central Development Strategy in BiH. The final report discussed the implementation of 969 measures in the Strategy, of which around 60% were implemented on time. 32% of the measures are in some phase of implementation, while 8% of the implementation cases have not yet been initiated. Strategic measures have been drawn up, not implemented; the strategic measures outlined and not implemented will be included, reconsidered and, if assessed by the reform priorities, will be included in new strategic documents, the 2008-2013 Development Strategy and the Social Inclusion Strategy in BiH for the same period, which are in the process of preparation. The methodological approach to developing a new strategy according to the way trends are projected has been improved. A situational analysis has been prepared, with a proposal for targets to be adopted on the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Reform and European Integration, SFOT workshops have been prepared and it is working to prepare for three scenarios that are always being done when these strategic documents are drawn up. The process of drawing up new strategic documents has become deeply entrenched. As regards the previous strategy, after a year of official monitoring, implementation of the measures of the medium-term development strategy, it was necessary to prepare another report at the end of last year to point out whether the situation has changed. I would also like to point out this: that there is a great need to take activities at raising awareness to state authorities on the importance of the medium-term development strategy of BiH and relevant strategies, as well as on development processes in general, and this would also help in implementing measures. The new strategy should continue policies in the medium-term development strategy in certain sectors and should focus on the objectives defined through the consultation process. New development documents should also identify the jack component. It's pointed out in this report, but this is what I want to underline. Clear definition of objectives and instruments to achieve them are a prerequisite for their successful realization. In addition to the clear objectives, it is necessary to define performance indicators at different levels of government. The measures and objectives should have specific, measurable, available, relevant and timed monitoring indicators. The definition of instruments includes a clear definition of institutions and implementation deadlines, as well as financial resources and human potentials necessary for its implementation. Responsible institutions shall have mechanisms and competences to fulfil tasks. The process of monitoring and evaluation within all levels of government in BiH needs to be promoted. Without the development of these capacities, it is almost impossible to have insight into the results of the work done and the contribution spent on the lives of citizens. And I think that this home should strongly support the development of a new strategy in the dynamics of the planned plan. 102 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23784	I thank Mr. Jašarević. This way, I don't have any more discussions reported. I am finalising the debate on the 26th agenda, so on the final report on the implementation of measures under the Middle-term Development Strategy of BiH Action Plan and economic trends, etc. Moving to point 27. Ad. 27. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the appointment of Director of the Directorate for European Integration I also said at the beginning of the session... that we had received some information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers. It has been insisted that today this item of the agenda be placed on the agenda. She's included. We have the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whom I welcome, and I welcome him here as often as possible. So, I am opening a debate on this agenda point, so the Information of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration. Mr. Chairman, if you need to add anything, there is information. Please, I'm opening a debate. We've got... The opinion of the Committee on European Integration, i.e. the Commission. I hope you have it on your desks. Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23786	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the distinguished guests, namely, I apologize that my presence may not be more common, but what we have in the Council of Ministers is that every minister at his agenda, unless it's a Council of Ministers meeting, should be. I hope we've improved communication in that sense. When Parliament requires me to be there for the agenda, I am ready to be there, to respond and respond to Parliament's demands, and I am grateful that you have called me on this agenda point. 103 I think it made sense that we talked about this before. So it seems to me that we would solve some of the misunderstandings, because in the meantime the situation has been used that according to the chairman's exchanges of different information they wanted, I have the feeling that they're going to make an impression of the chairman as a man who wants to usurp the position of others, to take on more powers than it does under the law. In fact, I want to say that all this is not true, but that by law and Rules of Procedure, I was obliged to ensure the smooth functioning of the Directorate. You got that information. But just to be clear, neither is Nikola Špirić, the public works, v.d. Director of the Directorate, nor Director of the Directorate, and it is very important to know, because in public it was intended to create such an impression, but by law until the election of the new Director must ensure the smooth functioning of the Directorate, because it is the interest of the citizens of this country and of all of us. I would have actually seen my mistake if I hadn't taken responsibility by law and had not provided for the normal functioning of the Directorate until the election of the Director. It is true that the presidency appointed Mr. Osman Topčagić as ambassador, head of the mission in Brussels at the 40th session, held in 26.6.2008. I must say there are no good ties and communication between BiH institutions, which is also a big weakness. It was logical then that I received written information from the Bureau that the director had been appointed as ambassador and that he needed to be relieved of the director's functions and to call the competition. I could read it from the media like you, but based on those writings, I can't make a move. I was, I must say, asked, so asked to keep Osman as director, to be present during the last progress report that was... somewhere in December. If I had said then that I didn't want to, there'd be media shows if I wasn't a friend of BiH, if I didn't want to give the director who was doing his job to talk about the country's progress, and that's all the things I had to wear in order for the processes to go and that the country... wouldn't have put up with. Osman Topčagić expired on 21.8.2008. If information had been written from the Bureau by then, we could have completed the selection of director of the Directorate. I don't think that would be a problem at all. I tried at the 70th session, held on 23.12.2008, so to finish the job using my legal and business competences and I proposed solutions to which are components: a proposal to resolve the director of the Directorate, which is quite logical; a proposal to appoint the acting director; a proposal to open a competition for the selection of directors at the same session. Unfortunately, I had no consent, because in Article 20. ( whatever in Article 23, pages 5 and 6. The Council of Ministers Act is prescribed that the Director, appointed and dismissed by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and in accordance with the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, is directly responsible for his work as chairman of the Council of Ministers, so that those who say are wrong - I can be the director of this or that. So it is the only institution where the director is responsible for the chairman of his work and the only address in political and any other sense towards Brussels when European integration is at stake; their position is to chair if allowed to do so. In Article 28(1), point (8) is replaced by the following: The Council of Ministers Act states: "The chairman represents the Council of Ministers and is responsible for the work of the Directorate for European Integration." So, I'm responsible for the work. For me, it would be absolutely irresponsible if I said - OK, the direkcija's office won't be run by anyone, we're waiting for a selection of directors. So the processes must be directed. Article 30 states: "The chairman of the Council of Ministers is particularly coordinating and monitoring the activities of BiH's government institutions related to BiH's integration into the EU. The Directorate for European Integration is directly responsible for the effective performance of 104 of these tasks and tasks of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers." Article 6(3) The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers are prescribed: 'The chairman shall coordinate and monitor the work of BiH's BiH authorities on BiH's EU integration and, in order to carry out these tasks and tasks effectively, the chair shall be directly responsible for the Directorate for European Integration.' pomenuti proposed solution at the 70th session was designed to address the situation satisfactorily. So, to resolve the functions of Mr. Topčagić's director and to have him as ambassador, to appoint at the same session, so we call a competition for the selection of directors and to appoint the acting director. I tried to do it twice, I didn't have the consent to do it, so let's name a V.D. And then, in the third attempt, we resolved the director, we made a decision to call the competition, and so there remain legal competencies, chairing the process until the election of directors. There is no decision on V.D. either. The director, not the director of the Directorate, nor was that the chairman's intention. I have a feeling that there was a need to create some hysteria, unnecessary, that could do harm, for example, the political chairman, but also the damage to BiH. I just couldn't help but wonder that people don't want to directly communicate with me and ask me, because I'm ready for MPs individually, to anyone. For five months, I have tried to ask a question with the leaders of political parties, with the presence of the High Representative, - come on, we have the directives, see if there is any deal that can be settled, because we have to settle everything in accordance with the law. Is there any possibility that what are the ten most important directives, regardless of who are in this country, to ensure the integration of the country, that everyone realizes that these are their directives, let's find a model. There is no readiness for such an agreement so that I can implement: if a Srbin is chosen once and for all, a Srbin; once Bošnjak, forever Bošnjak; once a Hrvat, forever a Hrvat -- but that's the division of BiH. So what I could do was I was in line with the laws and finally at the 73rd session, held in 15.1.2009, the Council of Ministers made those decisions on the resolution and the opening of the competition. These are the only two decisions made by the Council of Ministers. Still, so I have to draw some law enforcement. And what did I do? He invited all the executives from the Directorate and said to them: "Nothing changes, you all stay in your seats and work as you did in the time of your director. Who's signing the warrants? It's signed by that guy. He's signing today. Who's reporting to the Council of Ministers? That and that. He's doing it in the future. Who's gonna hold the button with the Kabinet so I know where the processes are? That and that. Who's going to have daytime communication in front of the cabinet for technical matters? Chief of Staff. So, no takeover, no one's intelligence takes over but provides normal functioning of the Directorate. I'm happy I did it that way. As you know, February 2nd, a competition has been called. We expect candidates to come forward and we'll pick the director and move on. I have to say, in the meantime, there have been attempts, I'm sorry to say, orders are issued not to fulfil those orders. So it tried to build on civil servants in the political sense of pedestrians, which is harmful both for them and for BiH. I'm sorry, I appreciate you people, and I'm not a man who's ever had a headache when he works under the law. And you know, every man, there's a limit of patience when he's trying to advance the process, and that's why there's no understanding or even trying to obstruct. So the competition was called, and we had RTM in the meantime, and we got the highest grades from Brussels, because we did a good job. 105 In February we have sectoral and thematic reports on RTM, progress, we are also preparing. I mean, it's a good atmosphere in the Directorate. There are things in the Directorate that need to be changed. I'm responsible for these processes, and I think I'm responsible under the law. I'm asking for your support instead of trying to deny that, in accordance with the law, we're promoting processes. Here, I thought it was necessary and it was good that we informed ourselves in this way, we would avoid trying to create a media story that wasn't good, not an ally of success. I have no intention, I must tell you, to do anything outside the law. I expected to get, in that sense, words -- bravo, there's someone who doesn't want to let the processes go back, but wants to direct them, to move forward! And that was my only goal. Someone can accuse me, I'm asked to participate in an agreement between the entity and the state, and that, in the way they presented me, creates a danger to me, because I can say that I want to take over any ministry's intelligence, which is nonses. So I don't see a way out of this situation unless there's a mood for v.d. Director. I have to say, there was an illegal conduct by the former director who had appointed his successor himself, and you know that by law there is no such thing. Therefore, the director proposes and resolves the chairman, cannot appoint his successor. And I think it's a bit heated up, too, but I didn't feel necessary at the time to deal with the charges against the director I worked well with, and I think my colleague Topčagić was doing a good job. I wanted to preserve his credibility and create an atmosphere to elect a new director. I'm sorry, I must say, for creating such an atmosphere. And here, once again, I want to say that I am grateful that you invited me to explain that everything has been done in accordance with the law. I have informed of these decisions by the Council and the European Office that has made this clear. So nothing was done outside the law. I want to inform you that things are going normally, we will have a quick elected director in the Directorate, and I am obliged to direct the processes to the selection of directors in accordance with the law. And nothing in the Directorate moved. There are things, I have to tell you, which I want to point to, and these are things that are probably in other institutions, damaged... national balance. You have nine Bošnjak and a head without any Srbin and Hrvat in the Department of Harmonization of Legal Regulations. That's not good. And you know why it's not good? Not because I don't trust these people or you don't believe it, but because it sends another picture, another impression. What's the problem? So everywhere we have to strive to balance this structure in order to be together because the European path is a common process, not only Srbin, not only Bošnjak, not only Hrvat. When the man wants to talk about it, he wants to slow down European processes. But we need to talk about everything openly, openly. I'm prepared of course to answer every question, but here's the intention is to inform you that nothing has been done outside the law, and I will do anything besides the law when not only is this process, but other processes are at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23787	Thank you. The word was also requested by Vice-President Tarik Sadović. Here you go. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23788	Dear Presidents and Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, honourable MPs, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to this subject which has caused a lot of storms in the public, including public polemics and sometimes bile, to a few facts that the chairman either left out or flew over, etc. So, it is a very important directorate within the Council of Ministers, so one key body that takes care of BiH's Euro-Atlantic integrations, etc. and serves as a body that coordinates all BiH's activities on the road. So in the sixth month of last year, the BiH presidency appointed Osman Topčagić, former director of the European Integration Directorate, as head of the BiH Mission to the EU. Of course, since then, a long-drawn strip has started, among other things, and in the media. I am a witness that Mr Topčagić, both at the Council of Ministers and through several letters from the chairman, was trying to resolve this problem, by resolving its duties, to reach a conclusion on the calling of a public ad for the election of a new director. There was, however, no understanding. The chairman proposed at a session, now I don't remember exactly, Mr. Vojin Mijatović, his advisor later, as acting director of the Directorate's office. However, the Council of Ministers did not support the decision, the proposal. Then, at one meeting of the Council of Ministers, one package of decisions was proposed, so to speak, so the Director's discharge, the calling, the conclusion of the ad call and the package to take over the management of the Directorate by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, it is absolutely not a matter of what the chairman of the Council of Ministers has under the Constitution and the law, therefore, and that the Director of the Directorate is responsible for him and the Council of Ministers and that he has a co-ordinating role and that he is responsible for the work of the Directorate. But here's the question of direct management of the Directorate. I ask you, I would like to read to you, therefore, from the Decision on the Directorate for European Integration... which regulates the work of this permanent body of the Council of Ministers: Article 9 states: '(A way of managing) the Director appointed and resolved by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the State Service Act,' this is very important, 'in BiH institutions. The director is directly responsible for his work as chairman of the Council of Ministers and Directors, in accordance with the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, has the status of secretary, secretary with special task, so a civil servant." It is further said: 'The director of the Directorate has assistant directors', in Article 10. 'One of the assistant directors, under his authority, replaces the director in the event of his absence or prevention. Assistant directors directly manage the sector and are responsible for the work of the Director and Assistant Director appointed by the Council of Ministers, the Assistant Director of the Directorate is appointed by the Council of Ministers, also a very important fact. Also, 'in accordance with the State Service Act and Assistant Directors have the status of assistant minister'. Please, 14, I have this solution, the former director of the Osman Topčagić Directorate, which, under: '1st. Amelu Alihodžić, assistant director of the BiH legal system coordination sector with the acquis communautaire, mandates to temporarily carry out management tasks with the Directorate for European Integration and to transfer rights and responsibilities of directors, i.e. the rights and obligations of directors, including all decisions and the signing of all acts of the Directorate for European Integration. The solution will apply from the day of adoption to the election of the new director." 107 The explanation also says that "this solution was given a positive opinion by the State Service Agency". So this solution is of 14.1. We have a meeting of the Council of Ministers 15. 1. On which, among other things, we are discussing this, so the president's proposal to resolve the director of the Directorate in the package, to discuss the ad and to empower the chairman to manage the Directorate. He didn't get most of it, it was voted against. So the chairman has an obligation to respect the Council of Ministers' decisions. And I repeat, here is not the constitutional and legal responsibility of the chairman, but of a state official who manages the direkcija. And now the basic question is: is this solution that has been made legally respected, in my opinion? So someone in that Directorate has to sign the papers, someone has to be materially and financially responsible. So, afterwards, we had the chairman empowering one letter from his chief of staff to lead the written correspondence on behalf of the Directorate, which, in my opinion, is illegal, etc. And this ribbon continues. So, I would also ask this parliament for help to say who is managing this direkcija as a civil servant, without any interference in the responsibility and jurisdiction of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. But someone on behalf of the Directorate must be materially-financially responsible. Someone has to sign the papers. Who is this man? That's the question we have to give the answer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23789	Thank you. Given the business opportunities and the obligation to chair the Council of Ministers whenever he asks for a word, please, Mr Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23790	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I thought... I wanted to keep it to myself, of course, and to the dignity of this house, that I should have informed this house, because that information is wanted. I don't mind my deputy saying her own vision, because Parliament wants it. I wanted to preserve the dignity of the people I worked with. I'm afraid this is the way law enforcement drives these people to the other side, and I don't want that. And I have to say that here we have to be absolutely decadent, honest, because it's about the law, and now I'm going to, so I didn't want to mention these things, but here's my colleague Sadović helped me. So, former director of the Directorate, Mr. Topčagić broke the law when he delivered the material that he proposed and his resolution and appointment of a person for the temporary performance of the director's duties. The law says - The proposal for appointment and resolution is given by the chairman - no one can take that authority from the chairman. Now you can think if in all the directorates people went to other places and said, "I'm leaving, as a housekeeper, that's going to be four years after me." If it's an interpretation of the law, I mean, I really don't, I don't have any further words. 108 Therefore, the Council of Ministers Law makes it clear who proposes appointing and resolving. So this is obviously an illegal act of director. To make the problem even bigger, no one or not knows enough domestic legislation or deliberately misread the legal provisions when it claims that only one in the same institution can be appointed as the performer. First of all, no law foresees the existence of a performer of duty. This is a legal practice obviously from the provisions to which the Director of the Directorate is called, which everyone else has supported, in which case it is at least inappropriate. It is a member of the 38th century (1) and (2) of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH. You may think that the status of a civil servant is regulated by the 'Paid Decision'. Ugly states, if we interpret the law in that way, and they say, 'In the case of a civil servant temporarily doing another civil servant's work, he has the right to a 35 percent fee of his basic net salary. The fee for the temporary performance of another civil servant's duties may only be fixed in the event of a competition for the filling of a specific position and may be paid for the maximum period of three months.' This provision does not by any chance speak of who may be the performer of the duties, nor solve any status issues, but only determines how much compensation will be received if such a job is carried out. The whole story raises another question: Did the State Service Agency then work in someone's interest and act in accordance with the law? I have the Agency's position, because then they spoke, were in the same situation Mr. Topčagić and Mr. Finc. But I asked the Agency's position, which dates back to ten days ago, when this story began, where it says, however, so I got a new opinion from the State Service Agency that they had previously admitted was unmeasured. I wanted to avoid this rolling in the mud of people working on this. If this was a law-abiding state, believe me, I would never have been put into a situation to come here and read you the provisions of the law I've been working under, and others... dispute it. And if we took a step further, who else got involved, the Bureau of Law to interpret something he wasn't responsible for. But here was a political battle - who can be and who can't be? And let it be clear. So, the competition doesn't prejudge who it will be, either a Srbin, a Bošnjak, or a Hrvat, and that's the solution. The only legal way out was this one. So, I didn't have the willingness to choose as a performer of silence, neither a Srbin, nor a Bošnjak, nor a Hrvat, because there was a colleague's attitude that it could only be a Bošnjak, and there we fell. Unfortunately, this country is falling. And it's not a problem that there are opposition in Parliament, it's logical, I respect it now, quite fine. It's sad and tragic if I have it daily at the Council of Ministers. You're asking me if this country will go forward. And that I have her on this one. So, I beg you, if the chairman has broken any law that fits. But don't, it's too bizarre to break this country on these things. I am grateful to the stranger, the individual who asked this question to explain to you, because I have swallowed so many things of media that were not based on law and facts. And that's why I came here today to tell my fellow MPs, whoever they are, to explain that it is not Nikola Špirić's goal to break the law, nor to strike. I tried with the leaders, it didn't work out, tried with the High Representative, it didn't work out, so I had to work this out. Take it, I'm asking you as my colleagues: Am I supposed to read from the media that my colleague Topčagić was appointed? Because there was to be written communication between the Presidency and the Council. To tell me, we named him, call a contest, choose another. I know it or I don't know it, but I don't have correspondence. But I have received a second application from the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: please leave Osman for the latest progress report. I did it. I thought 109 was doing good for my country. What if I had said, "No, Osman can't, his term is up." What would happen to me? I beg you, let us end this in a human way. I'm saying, the situation in the Directorate is good, people are doing their job, because nobody's moving. There's not a single document you don't know who's gonna sign. There has to be coordination between my cabinet and the Directorate, people! How else do you react daily? I'm not sitting in the Directorate. They're exactly the people in charge. I am sorry that one person who Osman appointed as his successor and for whom I, respecting Osman's decision, said that it was the person who would sit at the Council of Ministers' meetings and inform what was going on and how the Directorate is doing and what the projects were doing, that she listened to Tarik Sadović so she didn't come to that session, and we had RTM, we had Brussels in Sarajevo, because there was a message that there was a bully, Nikola Špirić, who doesn't respect the European path of this country. If it's a deal with Nikola, you can end it differently in Parliament, vote non-confidential and everyone does their job in accordance with the law again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23791	Mr Sadović, this debate will not be concluded either with your replica, or with Mr Špirić's return. Let's let the MPs talk, and you can call again anytime, at any time, and you won't be rejected. So we have replicas three. Dear Ambassador Okolić, please state to me a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you refer and to say what business intervention is in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23792	Business intervention refers to the following: point 27 reads 'Information of the Presidential Council of Ministers of BiH on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration'. Now, I'm asking you, according to the Rules of Procedure, we should have his information and that about his information we plead one way or another. Now, what does this look like? The minister appears behind the chairman. I'm asking myself now - what is he in? Is he from the chairman, according to him, authorized, is he a reporter of this matter or is he in another role? To explain it to me, and I don't think this is, as we do, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23793	I think we're working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And we have both the desire and the will to open this topic in a way that both can express their opinions without taking away words. If you want us to declare that no one but the Prime Minister's Chairman can answer, you can make a suggestion, I'll put it to the vote. But I think it is correct in the way we lead and in the way that Mr Sadović has given up now to report for the replica, and there is the possibility that he might be involved in the discussion afterwards. 110 Replica has honourable MP Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23794	I can somewhat agree with you, Mr. Živković, that any member of the Council of Ministers may report on any item of the agenda, but I think it's confusing for us MPs when we get two information, one after the other, which are diametrically opposite. In fact, in one part they are neither the opposite, because Mr. Sadović did not dispute anything in any word... from what Mr. Špirić said. And I in this replica express myself, so I don't know what word I'd use, at least a surprise that we're getting two informations after each other and I think Mr. Prime Minister's chairman here has repeatedly repeated that... he hasn't broken the law once, and I believe he hasn't. Here is one problem that no one will say, which Mr Špirić said in part. While Adnan Terzić was chairman of the Council of Ministers, no one was disturbed by the powers, in this regard, which Adnan Terzić had. Now the powers that Nikola Špirić has, in this regard, bother many. And that's not good. I don't like that name being read, and we don't want to talk about the names of the people Mr Topčagić has appointed as his successor, but I believe he is neither Hrvat nor Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23795	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23796	Oh, I'm a little confused with all this exposure and what the chairman said. So, at one point, it's not good for the country that the division of the country is Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, and in the other part he talked about some integrations that it doesn't matter. So, a little bit, it got me a little confused. But I also think the direkcija for European Integration should be led by an expert. So that's what I really think. It was logical that Mr Topčagić proposed to one of the assistants, because he must be more professional than those outside the institution. So I'm not talking about the name. It is also logical for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, in his absence, to change one of his deputies or ministers, not to be the head of Mr. Živković's cabinet. So I'm trying to logically speak, maybe I'm not directed enough at it, but I'm trying to put logic into common sense when it comes to this. It is logical that such an important institution as the Directorate for European Integration is led by someone who knows the essence, and probably knows more who is the deputy, assistant director, etc., whatever his name and last name is. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23797	Thank you. We'll go to the discussion in a row. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac. Here you go. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23798	Thank you. I think, Mr. Špirić, that they are neither a problem nor a media story, that they are neither a problem nor a legal solution, that it is not a problem whether or not there must be a Bošnjak in that place, the problem is somewhere else, to be honest. Mr. Špirić, I have quite reliable evidence that Mr. Topčagić has since August warned you and writtenly to call a competition for the director of the Directorate because his term is at an end, it is necessary to resolve. You didn't schedule that contest until January of the month. That's the facts. You didn't call that contest waiting for a political agreement on who would be director of the Directorate and in some kind of effort to prejudge some solutions, etc., etc. That's one thing. Second thing, you really need to coordinate and you're responsible for the work of the Directorate. But it's not prescribed by law, it's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, by a sublegal act. The law stipulates that the director of the Directorate should be elected and resolved on the proposal of the Council of Ministers chairman. This wasn't about, at this point, the Director's question. Here was the fill-up of the vacant position until the competition's competition's issue with the director, because only the competition can be resolved by the director. Indeed, in its Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, the work of the Directorate for European Integration is responsible for the chairmanship of the Council, but the way in which these powers are exercised is regulated by these Rules of Procedure and by special decisions of the Council of Ministers. So nothing can be done by heart, nothing can be done at will, regardless of all the problems I understand and problems who will be and what will be both the needs and the absence of a political agreement, etc., I understand everything. But nothing under its rank, by its gesture, must be the position or the Council of Ministers and there is a possibility of finding a solution. So, I have some situations and the National Service Agency, etc., where the transfer of powers in these situations was carried out also in the Directorate for European Integration: the former director transferred the powers, asked the Agency for State Services for an opinion, he received the opinion. We can dispute it, we can discuss it, but the argument... that it can't be Bošnjak or that it is, makes it difficult that someone set up a Bošnjak or didn't set this other one up, believe it has to be, it's not at the core of the problem and it has to be discussed, given the broader context. Namely, several bodies exist at the Council of Ministers: Economic Planning Unit, Coordinator's Office, Legislative Directorate, etc. These bodies have been agreed in the package on the principle of national representation. And of all the five bodies, he's only in the Directorate for European Integration at the head of the Bošnjak. So, I would respect the fact that out of five bodies there is only one Bošnjak. So, I would for some political reasons, if nothing, but there really is a need to get rid of it politically. If you need to put that package back on the table so you can see, to make a new composition, it's no problem. But here to try and prejudge some solutions, disrupting some structure is not an option. Believe me, the Directorate for European Integration is a solid institution, a quality institution and we agree on that. They're doing quality work. It needs to balance the national structure, etc. You claim that no law, no act waits for signature, endures. Believe that he's suffering. It is known that according to the Rules of Procedure and according to settled practice, the Directorate is already giving views on the harmonisation of the law with European legislation. Question: Who will sign those opinions in front of the Directorate? You, in some sense, have said in this paper that you are coordinating the work of 112 Directorates, but "I also inform you that in that period the written correspondence of the Directorate for European Integration will be signed by the head of the cabinet of the Chair of the Council of Ministers". Mr. Špirić, in addition to your best intentions, I mean, you can't do that. It can't really, because it's a state service, it's about the position of a civil servant on a special mission, it's about an institution... How are we going to consider the bill in addition to the opinion that it is in line with the European legislation signed by the Chief of Staff? We don't have any need for that. It is no coincidence that it must be done by a civil servant and it is not an accident that it is a practice to find someone from the institution for temporary coverage of those positions, and there are six sectors in the European Integration Directorate. There... are different and nationalities of the sector chiefs, you could discuss on the Council of Ministers that one of the sector's chiefs is appointed as acting, it doesn't have to be. But you can't bring someone on the outside to act as director of the European Integration Directorate, you can't. Director, we know what he's named, he's becoming a civil servant, but the duty officer can't be brought from the outside, it's not good for the Direkcija, it's not good. And that's why I think, Mr. Špirić, that it's no problem, no media speculation, no problem, no insistence on the law, no problem, no story. The problem is, frankly, that you have avoided calling the competition, that you have tried to prejudge some solutions by appointing the acting officer in the proposed character, which is unnecessary, because it can only be solved by political agreement and should be resolved. And the problem is that this kind of coordination with the Directorate on your part has caused a problem, because there's confusion in the service, there's a couple of opinions on compliance on signatures that don't know who's going to sign. I appeal indeed that there is therefore an opportunity for this to be resolved on the Council of Ministers in a way to place a civil servant in the position of a temporary civil servant, in a way that respects what exists, who has predisposition and competence for it. And in a way that, of course, finds a compromise within the Council of Ministers. Everything else, I mean, there's no argument that anyone else is to blame but you're not to blame, there's no argument, because there's here and the guilt of the chairman of the Council of Ministers as... can be established from the documentation. But I think the question can be solved in a way that everyone can be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23799	Replica. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23800	I'm sorry, I'm obliged to report if they weren't the wrong information, so people don't have the wrong picture. I thought this was going to go another way, but whatever you decide, so be it. This is where you call for documents, I don't know if you have them. I just, is it good that I, here, as chairman who is responsible, don't know about these problems, and you know them – are waiting for the documents to be signed. Is that telling you anything? Is that telling the MPs what? That I, as chairman who is legally responsible, do not know that they are waiting and that you, MP, know? I'm telling you that instructions from these workers are making pedestrians, not good, please. The other thing is, I have here this report that you don't have. I'm sorry, I don't want to mention people so they don't pay the price, 'cause I mean, the law doesn't win here. Here's your 113 agency. I'm telling you what gave rise to the first attitude that passed the law. What if I had gotten on then and said, guys, don't do it for yourself. Would you support me then? Here is the position of the Agency signed by the Director: ‘The Agency for State Service is not authorised or competent to interpret the provisions of the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH institutions.’ Does this mean anything to you if the Agency for State Service tells you? Do you know what you're referring to as metric? The official messenger, nor the provisions of Article 38 of that Law, but only to give consent to whether the conditions are met by a member of the 38th New Law on Salaries and Suspensions in the BiH Institutions, and therefore the opinion of that fact since the year and which you, Mr MP, are calling upon, is therefore not legally valid in the section in which Article 38, etc. is interpreted. This is a second opinion that people put on. You know what people tell me from the Directorate, and I have no special communications except for letters – to be ashamed of that first attitude. I'm telling you what's going on in the country. Are we going to edit it? When he was elected colleague Topčagić, I was then an MP like you,... he was V.D., then he changed the Systematization Regulation where he was asked for 10 years of leadership experience to be the director. Did it bother anyone? So, just him. There's no way there's another. And so this was all worth it at the time of the chairman I've never even mentioned negatively. What's going on now? So, logically it would be that he was appointed, that there was an understanding... And I have to tell you that I had other suggestions entirely. And there's a man I suggested back then, who's also been doing eight or nine years only in these affairs, who is professional and he knows about who Brussels knows about, but I thought I should wait to see if there's an agreement, doesn't bother me that's faith and nations. But it was if the director broke the law and proposed his successor – did he help the chairman? If that's binding for Bosniak ministers, then, I'm asking you to just give a little bit of understanding to get out of this in a legitimate way. But I would also like to warn you parliamentarians: the Council of Ministers makes a decision, Parliament makes a decision, and decisions are not respected, here's a living case of CRA - what are we making of this state? What do we want to do? Tell me. So maybe I'm not a man who can achieve all these goals. I beg you, change Nikola Špirić, I will not break the law. The way she wanted to bid on this is against the state. If there is anywhere where I broke the law – answers Nikola Špirić, but to get out of this soap opera. There's a competition, it's called, there's gonna be a director's appointment soon. My advisors from the cabinet daily have written correspondence with ministers, with the ministries, it's their duty. Daily written correspondence, so I can't, so I'm not the one who's going to, there's something that's going to do the cabinet, something. Written correspondence implies if people ask for instruction, not to sign a financial document, who's going to go to FPM, who's going to go to this, who's going to go to that. It's a mechanism that I can manage processes. Find me any document, please, in the meantime, which my advisors signed which is financial content and not even Osman as director signed everything, but there's a Department of General and Legal Affairs, there's a Department of Integration, there's a Department of Legal Regulations. And it's all done by these people now. I've got communication on a daily basis. I'm gonna check this out, believe me, because my goal is to make daily progress. If you want to screw this up, this is an ideal opportunity. But I think Parliament will call on the chairman and everyone else to work in accordance with the law and there is no violation of the law here. I'm sorry that many others tried to interpret it, not to read this, so when I explained to them, people fit, from international to domestic. But no one wants to read, everyone gets a general impression. I'm telling you the law and the Rules of Procedure, you don't think I'm happy this is happening. Well, you don't think I'm happy to run after the leaders, so I ask them, let the people handle this, they won't put it on the agenda. So I ask the High Representative, and he won't. I still don't have any support from you. 114 Let me guess at the bar which nationalities will be. So I'm saying, if he was a Srbin, so let me ask you, I say, what bothers you to remain a Srbin for 100 years. If that's the fate of this country, let me know. So, I'm asking you to tell me, Chairman, you broke the law here and here. We need to get out of this. And I didn't want to mention any faces until I saw that there were other intentions here. I think there are people who sometimes write something agreed in this country, and it's actually not good for the country. It's just the law. The law is the best dam for me and you. But I'm asking you what we've done that we haven't had a competition in a year, we've got an employee in charge, and we're going to have material transactions. You will also accuse the chairman of not supporting the Council and Parliament's decision. Well, I'm already being called for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23801	Just a moment, we have Sadik Ahmetović reported as a replica, so Halid Genjac, so Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23802	It's a matter of good irresponsibility when it comes to this position, so good irresponsibleness. If we have a situation that six months ago Mr. Topčagić won immediately in the following month, this is about the irresponsibility to finish this job in time and that the Directorate has a director. So, not to enter the law, both the director and foreign minister were sitting in the Chamber of the Council of Ministers. And if the foreign minister doesn't know who is proposed or appointed ambassador somewhere, or if at the Council of Ministers' meeting it's not possible to inform you that the Director has been appointed as ambassador, then I don't know what correspondence he needs within the session, outside the session. I mean, I really don't get it. And I don't really know what's bothering you... here's what bothers the lady I don't know, I really don't know, who's the assistant director to do that duty to elect a director. So, I'd like an explanation of what the problem is if she doesn't? Maybe I'd vote if it wasn't. But don't make me think of any way, so this isn't good, I'm naming another.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23803	You know what the problem is?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23804	I don't know what the problem is, Mr. Špirić. I really don't know that an assistant director can't handle the position of a man who signs an act until the election of a director.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23805	I beg your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23806	It's really inexplicable to me. Thank you very much. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23807	Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23808	So the selection of directors and resolution is done in accordance with the law, not which is a problem. So, I'm asking you, I'm saying that the former director has broken the law and done something that doesn't stand in his law. And now, if you want to force a man, come on, I don't know what the solution is. So, if a man broke the law and did something that wasn't his competence and nailed the decision? Now, if I told you who was in my head, you wouldn't believe me. So don't tell anyone if anyone can or can't professionally. But if someone comes and says, that place can only be this one or that nationality, we're in a stalemate position. Well, you don't think I'm happy it happened. And another thing, if the Presidency appoints someone, so isn't the presidency outside this country. He must, as you ask me if I've broken the law, I must have an appointment act. Find him today in my files, anywhere in... The Council of Ministers. No correspondence between me and the ministers can be an oral guarantee that there is no violation of the law. That, such a state does not exist. So the logical thing was that it was said -- it was appointed, we ask that you resolve it in the same seconds. Why was there no mood for resolution then? We had two months to call a contest, and I'm telling you what demands came to me. And so I don't want to say anything bad about people who did a good job. But I don't want anyone to accuse me of working outside the law, with the intention of wanting something. Maybe that's a good solution. Maybe it's perfect. But it has to be in accordance with the law, and so is this one that's going to be in the competition. Here, that's the only difference between me who won't break the law and those who think that in the interest of naming that name can be broken by law. And there's the difference. So, I'm not saying anything ugly about a candidate. And it can or can't be. I'm just about to make it legal. It's my only obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23809	So I have reported two replicas: Halid Genjac and Azra Alajbegović; and four discussions: Živković, Izetbegović, Marković and Džaferović. Let's take it in a row, Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23810	Very short. Mr Špirić, one thing is the correspondence of the writing that is being carried out, and another is quite another sentence... in which you sign that the written correspondence of the Directorate for European Integrations (not your cabinet, but the Directorates, so what comes out of the Directorate) will be signed by your head of the cabinet. Please, to question directly where you broke the law, I must answer. I didn't call on the U.S. Department's opinion. You misunderstood where you broke the law. You broke the law in the next one that you did not call a contest for Director of the Directorate in good time, and you knew or should have known that the deadline, mandate, or the term of office was up. Why didn't you call 116 a contest when the director warned you in writing that he was appointed and that the competition should be called so that he could be resolved. That's where you broke the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23811	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23812	And you broke it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23813	Please, please, a little patience to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23814	And you have violated the law in that you have determined that the correspondence of a significant directorate, a significant agency, has ordered that these documents of the same significant agency be signed by your head of the cabinet. That's where you broke the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23815	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23816	Please, patience, Mr. Špirić, let's listen to each other. Replica Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23817	Well, no, I'd just like to ask Mr. Špirić. He said that this is a state where the law is not respected – so if he can appoint one person an ad nominem – then he said that this is a country where spite wins the law, so that we can see what kind of spite and who does it, because these were assumptions for that so-called. The collective hysteria of this decision for the performer of duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23818	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23819	Oh, Mr. Špirić, of course you can, and I suggest you listen. You'll be out every three minutes, but here you are, if you're in shape. Of course, I respect the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you every time, I've well-meaned you. Here you go. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23820	I think this is a good question from a fellow MP. But I just said where we're all in the car when it comes to the state. You have the Council of Ministers' decision, you have Parliament's decision. If those two decisions in this country don't come true for extra-political arrangements, how can you, I'm all wet when you ask me, believe me. So will anyone in this country say, there is no independence in which Parliament's decisions and government, the Council of Ministers, can be ignored. If we don't have consent here, what are we going to do? Here are the concrete decisions of both Parliament and the Council of Ministers. I thought we were gonna talk about this. It's easy, you can charge the chairman, it's not a problem, and he's not going to solve this in general where we are. Well, that's a good question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23821	Ajanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23822	Mr. Špirić here acts as if he were an MP in this House. And every speech of the MPs, he replicates. It's not business. And he has to wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23823	Whenever he asks for a word, I am obliged to give it to him, Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23824	And we don't need to go through a fight between the prime minister and the MP. And we should wait for the MPs to say
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23825	Please, Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23826	and give their opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23827	Mr. Ajanović, I run the session, I am obliged to give him my word every time. I advised Mr. Chairman to be patient, but he's in good shape and wants to react immediately. So here I have no more applications for discussion. Mr. Živković called earlier. Mr. Izetbegović, believe me, I told you on several occasions that the members of the College do not have the possibility... Here you go, Mr. Živković, and then we'll go Izetbegović, Marković, Džaferović. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23828	Mr. Chairman! It is obvious that we from the SNSD are not running away from any discussion of anything here in Parliament, it is only a matter of the purpose of it. We could have asked after your request that this agenda point and we ask why tomorrow at the Council of Ministers Mr Sadović ultimatically requires that the agenda points be compared in terms of the adoption of the rules. What's that for? Why this debate in this House, and why are we having this debate? Do you perhaps now have more information about what you wanted to know or do you want to continue to discuss this, to give you a part of the information that concerns not only this issue but also many other issues in the functioning of this country? Why didn't you support my proposal when I wanted to make this agency a European Integration Ministry, why didn't you... accept this proposal? Why did you say that even then this country is being torn apart? Then we wouldn't have this problem that we're having right now. We'd have a minister, [[Common discussion]] And also, it is,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23830	Can we be patient?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23831	I have suggested that that ministry that doesn't work anyway but has now made only this strategy that we will adopt here, thank Bog, and everything else will be done by that Return Fund and the people who are in it, and that will be the question that should be the issue in the next period, the question of determining a job, not the policy of refugees. You should've supported it then, and we wouldn't have this issue open today. But here, since you opened it, of course I want to remind you of the fact that it is not nice to hear that Mr. Topčagić was chosen according to the principle of a set competition, where it has been asked for 10 years, that a man applied to this contest, it is not nice to hear it. But here, and this is the system of competition in our country and the Law on State Service, which the foreigners have imposed on the principle of how it is done in Great Britain, which the Slovenac have refused, as well as the Makedonac, and we have a problem with it, so we have the same problem that the president of this agency is proposing or setting up a competition which will now be the director of the State Service Agency. So, there are BiH small emperors who think... that someone left it to them in the legacy so that they have the right to speak in both directorates and various institutions, such as the Directorate for indirect taxation, the RAC. And this morning we heard here from the first benches of their mentality and the story of how in SIPA we have a broken national structure, so as SIPA only listens to the anonymous reports they get, she didn't say anything about who they're arresting and who's... arrested in this country, and they don't say a word about the national structure in European integration. What are we talking about here? About one big mistrust. We have no problem with Mr. Topčagić being in Brussels, we have no problem. Was there a problem with that man leaving right away? Whether he should be a member of the BiH presidency, Bošnjak and Bošnjak Foreign Minister and Director of the Bosnia and Bošnjak Directorate for European Integration in the structure to present this BiH. There's no problem, is there? That was BiH's foreign policy. The problem is when 119 is going to be put into order this country and apparently it can't be the way we think about our people to make this state. Others must listen and have a little more confidence in the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers who is on the stand here without need, and should be someone else on the stand, because the same Agency for the State Service has given its opinion on who broke the law. And whether or not someone acted urgently, we can talk about it, but it's not a violation of the law, it's a relationship to the job. I hope that for all the ones I mentioned in the Directorate there will be a final solution, at least until we adopt the law on state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23832	Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23833	I don't know, it looks like the SDA was supposed to apologize for the issue of the state being troubled, to apologize? Or maybe Mr. Genjac who graduated from college? He doesn't seem to have the right to interpret the law, to read without experiencing such disqualification as a moment. So don't do this to us, people! All the trouble, I think, started from there what Dr. Špirić did one thing that he didn't normally have. It's a man who has very balanced behavior, well, he's an experienced man and has such a temper that he doesn't provoke things as he's now provoked. It took someone with a continuity from that Directorate to set up for V.D., that's a clear point. A man who deals with it, and then you, Dr. Špirić, would have your pawn. Surely that woman would come to you every day, or when you have time to tell you how things are, she wouldn't come to us. You should have done it. The second thing is, we're all very sensitive to national balances both to the findings and changes in all of that. Maybe the Bošnjak at least. And, you don't need to start that thing easy. And those two were done by Dr. Špirić. And I'm surprised he did it because he's not like that, because I haven't recognized him like that by now. And I'm surprised at the way you treated Dr. Genjac. He has the right to read some members of the law there without experiencing the kind of thing you've arranged for him. So the State Service Agency confirmed that the appointment of this Mrs. Amele Alihodžić was in order, and OHR found that it was not okay what the prime minister did. So it's not just the SDA's opinion as far as I know, Doctor. As for the national balance, I say, we Bošnjak may be least sensitive, because here's how things are in the Fiscal Council. Where are we? Only traffic engineer Dr. Branković sits there, everyone else is not Bošnjak. Or, too, where money is shared and then where it comes to security, the co-ordination of police bodies, whether, SIPA, DGS, police directors, there are no Bošnjak at all. We had a SIPA director, we haven't had him since a few months ago, we had the Chief of Staff of the Army, we haven't had him since a few months ago. But it went all the way over and we accept it that way. But this thing is going unnaturally. And don't be surprised at our reaction like this. Don't stop us from doing the agenda, asking the prime minister, what is it, what is it? There's no need for you to qualify as you are, or Dr. Genjac just now, there's no need to lower the level of communication to that. 120 So, I ask you to speed up the appointment, to speed up the appointment of a regular director of the Directorate, so that it doesn't happen again for half a year. And in the meantime, follow the law, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23834	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23835	So why don't you wait a little while to hear the others. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23836	I'm sorry. So if he was invited by the chairman to ask himself, he must be invited to answer, so as not to give the story another taste. I respect what my colleague Izetbegović was talking about. There's no opinion,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23837	Please listen to each other, Šefik, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23838	Please, there is no OHR's opinion that the chairman has broken the law or that there is the opinion of this agency that it is well done. You don't have an opinion. That's why I'm just saying you have to have all the papers. Based on this information, you can come to the wrong conclusion. My apologies to my fellow Genjac. I'm always ready to apologize. I wanted to relax the situation, I didn't want to underestimate anyone, and I'm always ready to feel that it bothers anyone to apologize. So it wasn't my intention, my apology. I wanted to relax the situation, because I don't think there's a need for bile debates in the charge. So, I just want to know if it was a violation of the law or not. No, I assure you it's not. Could it have been like this, if it could have been like that, I wasn't even talking about the candidate who proposed Osman outside the law. And my compliments. I also suggested he be head of the Council Directorate, respecting it, and wanting to obey the law. The competition will solve that question. But this question that has come today, let's say, if it had been behind that decision, we would have made ourselves clear and not produced in public what was produced. It bothers me, it bothers Bosnia, it bothers you. Only in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23839	Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23840	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23841	Please, please listen to me. Ekrem, what is it today? 121
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23842	We have brought ourselves into a situation, Parliament here we have brought the whole situation and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to work on a position of directors in one of the country's directors for more than two hours, and today we have also had some previous session sessions on the agenda when we passed it so quickly, and here is the progress report from BiH on the European path we have solved one conclusion. Mr. Izetbegović said at the beginning of his speech that it looks like someone should be apologizing to someone here. So I really think and literally think that it should really be someone who apologizes here for not being able to take the need without making a parallel between the situation today when we discussed the Law on Lawyerry, when we SNSD MPs said we couldn't support that law because the ministers in the Council of Ministers of the Order of the Serbian People voted, and then it was commented and characterised as not important, the Council of Ministers delivered that law, let us move on, to make a public debate, and we'll sort it out sometime later in walking, amendments, I don't know, in the second phase of the adoption of the law, etc. And here, when one part of the ministers, or ministers of the Bosniak people, specifically from the SDA, disagreed with certain decisions of the Council of Ministers' chairman, then the agenda should be put on the table and the Council of Ministers' hearings here today, to ask him a variety of questions, and even to question the legality of his procedures and work. Now, that should be raised to Parliament level, that the whole Parliament is discussing that some ministers in the Council of Ministers disagreed with the decisions of the chairman, and when the law one whole votes in the Council of Ministers, that is not important, we will see how we will later. Now, that's why I think someone should really apologize to someone here for such actions, and so to speak, simplified demeaning among colleagues in this House. That's inadmissible. On the other hand, what I have also noticed in the presentation of the Council of Ministers and fellow Members of Parliament's Presidency is actually being troubled here is something that has been done by the chairman of the Council of Ministers from the position of legality and respect of legality in order to achieve continuity in the work of the Directorate and to allow for further smooth work of the Directorate, and not to be troubled, on the contrary, to defend something that the former Director has done and has no authority under any law to do so. We heard here that his mandate expired in August 2008, we heard from the chairman that the Foreign Ministry asked him to continue to work until last year's report on it, and I believe that this is all accurate information, and now it's the minister's fault, now he's the chairman who accepted such a suggestion, and that he's having a problem with it as soon as he's asked for it, then they'd say, here, you see, you're causing problems, you're obstructing, you don't let things get solved in a nice and dignified way. I think the main problem here is that the competition is even being called and that this thing is being processed in the first place to choose the director by legitimate and legal means and bring things into order. The Institute of Competition does not prejudge whether it will be Bošnjak, whether it will be Hrvat or Srbin and the Civil Service Agency, I believe, fully in accordance with the law and end the process. But, I mean, it wanted something else with these procedures and this problem of raising the whole question about the Director of the Directorate for European Integration,......and I guess nobody else can read anything between the lines and some secret intentions and desires, which is to name that person that the former racer named, so we'll see when the competition will be, whether there will be a choice of director at all. If it doesn't, it's gonna stay the way it is and it's gonna survive until next period. I appreciate that the Council of Ministers' actions were precisely in order for things to be resolved in a legitimate and regular manner and that it showed good enough will that
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23843	Please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23844	...to make its contribution to keep the European Integration Directorate working normally. What did any of the other ministers at the Council of Ministers want and want? I believe that this parliament should not deal with this, because each of the MPs and ministers can have a wide range of desires in terms of human resources, but personnel solutions will be the one prescribed by law and how politicians and parties responsible for the government being carried out will be the executive power through the Council of Ministers. So, I propose that we also respect Parliament's support for the completion of the competition and that, legally and legitimately, the new director of the Directorate for European Integration be chosen and that our actions, as well as today's comments and various discussions, do not contribute to the selection of the Directorate for European Integration, i.e. the selection of its future director on the scale of the affair, and I do not think that this is our goal and should not be the aim of this Parliament, just because, after the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for European Integration is the mostexposed institution in bringing BiH closer to the EU and I think that we must respect this status of the institutions and we must give our constructive contribution to this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23845	I have a request from the vice president for the word. And here's the deal. So they have two more debaters, we have three points of the agenda. If we have the ambition to finish tonight, please be more specific, not to repeat ourselves. Here you go, Mr. Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23846	The Honorable Chairman! So here, in my opinion, is very much about things that absolutely don't correspond to the truth. And here the law is clear. Here is the former director of the Directorate for European Integration, Osman Topčagić, absolutely named the head of the institution in accordance with the law. And he didn't call on any pay law. And now we're listening to arguments that the Agency for the State Service 123 is not obliged to interpret the Law on Salary. So Topčagić was not even invited to the Payments Act, but called for Article 61(2) of the Governance Act, called for item 10 (2) of the Decision on the Directorate for European Integration and Article 11(2) and (3) of the Internal Organisation of the Directorate for European Integration and adopted a solution. And to that solution, here I'm showing you, there's this solution, the Agency for the State's Service gave a positive opinion, as an authorised institution. What are we talking about now? So please, here I have to do it again. Unfortunately, the chairman, but she cannot be in charge of Chief Kabinet, that it is the head of the Chair's office, a lady I respect very much, but she cannot be charged with having written correspondence on behalf of the Directorate. Will she be materially-financially responsible? Who will sign travel orders and other reports? Who? Who's the responsible person in the institution? Well, that's all regulated by the State Service Act, and the Director of the Directorate... the advisor, or the head of the Cabinette, is the elected person, the appointed person. So he's not a civil servant. That's clear stuff. So, I do, do you want me to show you an act where the head of the Cabin is deploying jobs in the Directorate? You want me to show you an act where it signs the accompanying act with the materials of the Directorate for European Integration? By what law? Chairman, I highly respect and respect you as a very capable politician, but you yourself know, in this case, that you are wrong. You know that, I don't need to convince you. So it's not true that I, from some manner, stood up to you. Both Croatian and Bosniak ministers voted against your proposal, the chairman. Vote people against it, because human policy isn't run that way. Staff policy, I repeat, does not lead in that way. And it's not right. So what do you need now? Of the four or five permanent bodies of the Council of Ministers, there should be no Bošnjak. What do we have to say now? Let's give you a round of applause, shall we? If that's the case, we won't, as you say, rip a hair into three. And what, then, that we chose the director of SIPA as a Srbin, when he was a Srbin before him, or not to give you other examples. Shall we do that rotation, shall we be consistent? _________(?) We will. Well, I agree, but let's go in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23848	You two sit down for coffee, so it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23849	Let me tell you one more thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23850	This is a session of Parliament. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23851	Let me tell you one more thing. Also, please don't, so Mr. Genjac is right, you know it as well as I do, the chairman. The director of the Topčagić Direkcija wrote to you, he wrote, you have this letter. You have every meeting of the Council of Ministers where the Director of the Directorate attends. He asked that question to be considered. You didn't want to. I'm not going in there for why, but it's true, it's facts. So, here's what I'd like to do is sort this out in the way of the deal. But this is a sensitive question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23852	Well, it looks like we're going to do a pretty good job. We're going with new replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23853	Well, unfortunately, don't let me, look, here's one more thing to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23854	Just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23855	When, the chairman, you proposed to serve as your candidate, how could he be an executive of his duties, then how could he be an perpetrator? Here, I'm asking you that. So when you suggest, it can, but when the other suggests, it can't. So don't call for legality. Based on one sublegal act, such as the Rules of Procedure, you cannot promote your chief of staff as acting director of the Directorate. Don't, I guess this is a tall home.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23856	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23857	I apologize to the MPs, but it's a clear situation. I'm sorry, this to me...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23858	...you can sit down, have a coffee, and at the level of the Council of Ministers, you can sort this out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23859	No, I'm not asking you nicely, when we could do this, you asked for information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23860	Okay, okay, but we weren't looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23861	Please, you asked for information, Chairman. I respect that and others say... So this is what you want, not me. 125
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23862	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23863	So what's standing, so where's the difference. So the law and the Rules of Procedure say who proposes a designation and a resolution and does not give it to anyone else. I beg to be told where it was broken. Here's the Agency's mišljanje that nobody's going to read. This is the Agency's last opinion. So you can't depend on the director, who's the director of the Agency, give and say - that's not an attitude. What's the metric? So, I'm not going in here either, but you can clearly see from this debate what the problem is. So the problem is national membership, not the brooch for competition. So, and the competition, please, will say, so the contest, but then we have to say, I am for it. When I ask him to sit down and arrange for a rotation, no one will have a dialogue. I will have this problem at every appointment, I assure you in Parliament, if you do not support me. This country goes into illegality if there is no support for legal work. I'm not against the deal. Let's regulate it as a principle. But I beg here to say where the law is broken. Nowhere. And there's no other decision but... the discharge of duties and the opening of competitions. Why? So, there's the head of the Legal Affairs Department and everything else, I've signed the Osman Act before as chairman. It says in the law that he's responsible to me, not the Council. So travel orders, reports, etc. These acts are signed by the head of the Legal Department, neither by my boss, my advisor, nor by the head of the Cabinette. Correspondence, when we agree on what will be the agenda, Gordana Živković, under my authority to manage the processes, says - we are delivering this point to the Council of Ministers. So, by my authority, I manage the processes, and no, no financial acts. So, just to be clear, it's not, I beg you, I respect everyone, but I ask you to respect these people also who enter here first in the morning and, remember, the last come out of the building. And they're not burdened, fortunately by what we're discussing. For my chief of Kabinet, it's no matter which nationality he'll be director of, but he's bound to obey the law. And he's not director of the Directorate or V.D. Director
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23864	May I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23865	Directorates. Find me a piece of paper where Gordana Živković, as head of the cabinet, is named V.D. Or for the director. Let's get out of that story. (?) No microphone 126 turned on No, no, it's not true. So, neither is Nikola Špirić, but if you want to run a story like this with the chairman, you can, but I'm not going out of the law. If Parliament were to make a decision today to make an extra-legal move, I wouldn't do it, believe me. I won't do it. You have other mechanisms for the chairman. If I'm breaking the law, change the chairman, if you don't believe me, change the chairman. It's much better for the country than to have this kind of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23867	So, once again, I ask you to keep your patience and not to put this parliament in a position, at a plenary session, the judges - is it something legal, is it not legal? We had an intention, or I assume the initiators intend to get out of this situation. Here, there's one and it's correct, it seems to me, a proposal for a conclusion, etc., but here's two signed up for a replica. Vinko Zorić, first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23868	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23869	I've had it registered, Mr. Zorić, if you haven't, if you've given up okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23870	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23871	And I have a replica, have you, Mr. Bahtić, given up?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23872	Here, I'll just take a quick, one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23873	So you didn't give up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23874	I didn't. I mean, we've been spending a few hours on these things. This should, however, be the leaders who are agreeing on a very serious matter in Prudo, and they should have solved this problem because we and the management, we have a thousand things. I think that "Prudian Troika" has already taken over the presidency's intelligence, let him handle this sort of thing over there, so we don't get into this stuff, because we're gonna come.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23875	Who's the replica, Sadik? Leaders, huh? 127
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23876	Replication is "Prudian Three", and here is the chairman and vice chairman, let them locate the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23877	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23878	Here you go, Mr Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23879	Oh, I really think the man is breaking the Rules of Procedure. He's talking about other things entirely. We could go in now, so whoever named Mr. Topčagić didn't solve this problem by the director of the Directorate. So that's the problem that's open.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23880	Okay. No more replicas. We're going to a discussion. We have two more registered, of course Šefik Džaferović and Selim Bešlagić. Is there anyone else to discuss? Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23881	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Deputy, ladies and gentlemen, this problem has its own political and has its own, I would say, technical and legal dimension. I'll only say in two or three sentences what I think about this, so let him take whoever he wants. I have no intention of convincing anyone, because it's obvious that we can't convince each other here. It's a very clear thing, but I guess one day you'll be watching what anybody's been saying here and who's doing what, and you'll probably get some conclusions out of it. So the problem really has a political dimension. I am a man who has long been, the third term, here in this House and as general secretary or vice president of the party, who is in two terms, but in continuity, in power. So I followed these political agreements and took part in them. I am not a man who, as such, partially observes these things, and I well know that this is a question of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration, when it comes to the distribution of these positions, except for this issue which Mr Genjac spoke about, so these five institutions that exist at the Council of Ministers, also concerning the Secretary-General of the BiH Presidency and the Secretary-General, or the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that on that occasion, Mr Topčagić was actually made a concession when it came to the Council of Ministers or the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, one of those two functions, so that Mr Topcagic would be the director of that Directorate. I mean a concession when we talk about this ethnic representation and this thing we should definitely know, Mr. Špirić, and you know it, and we need all of us to know. I advocate that the most capable people in BiH do the most responsible jobs but that this country's multiethnic structure is also respected. And that's some formula by which we can name people, so we choose 128 of the most capable, those who can do the best work and, of course, respect the multiethnic structure of this country. It's just that the country is like that, and thank Bog, I say, it's like that, one day, sometimes in the future, it's going to show that it's our great advantage even though today this may sound amazing to many, but I really think so. So, I think that you, Mr. Špirić, are completely unnecessary, I mean, this is my opinion, you entered into a question that was earlier, approximately, when this ethnic structure was agreed and I think you had an elegant way out of this situation that after this gentleman... Topčagić is appointed as acting as acting officer of someone from this agency, there is this woman who is assistant director, to call a competition and then, of course, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, everything, among other things, is a matter of political agreement, we enter into the process of talks, agreements and then make it easier for you. I fully understand your position, I mean, you can't do this job if you have a policy behind you that simply has such settings. To justify this, I remember, for example. the appointment of the director of the SIPA, and I remember a difficult argument that the president of my party had with the High Representative at the time. If you remember, it was summer, a competition was launched but then Mr. Sredoje Nović, today's minister, who before that was the director of the SIPA as the most qualified candidate in the competition, even though we asked to change the ethnic structure, at least my party, was elected director of the SIPA. But I also remember the appointments, one of the appointments of the director of the CIPS, when one man, who is not a Srbin, Bošnjak, was the most qualified in the competition and when he insisted strongly on the Council of Ministers, then Minister Mladen Ivanić (as far as I remember, if not, I apologized) insisted on it and then he chose a man who, I think, was also today the director of the CIPS but was not at the competition the most qualified candidate. So there are also elements of this arrangement, and these things have to be taken into account in this country, if we want to have as much harmonic relations as possible. I think what's done is completely unnecessary. Now of course it's gone public, attitudes are completely nailed and the only thing left in this position is that it's completely, so absolutely, it should always be, but here's now to respect existing rules and existing laws. So much for the political dimension. As far as the formal or technical dimension of this matter is concerned, I will give my opinion, as a lawyer, and you judge what you can take from it. The State Service Act didn't settle this issue, and that's what the Agency's people say. And they, their first opinion, about this case, are bound by the Law on Salaries and give a positive opinion. I haven't seen a second opinion, but I do know that the State Service Act didn't settle this issue. The second act to be respected is the basic act on which it is founded or established or on the basis of which this institution operates, namely the Directorate for European Integration, and in this act it is said, in Article 10, that the Director of the Directorate has assistant directors. One of the assistant directors, under his authority, replaces the director in cases of his absence and prevention. Assistant directors directly manage the sector. They're responsible for the director's work. The Assistant Director shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers, etc. All the trouble with this tense situation is whether it will be Bošnjak or Srbin. I think the thing is, unfortunately, it comes down to it, Mr. Špirić. There is nothing left here but to observe who is legally after leaving Mr. Topčagić, who is legally, by law, in the position of acting as director. If this decision is observed, Mr. Topčagić was acting as director when he made the decision and authorised his assistant to, in his absence, act as director. 129
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23882	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23883	Please, please, after that, wait a minute, and v.d. Assistant and assistant. After that, please, I only express my opinion, You later, I say, take what suits you, what does not suit you, and after that the Council of Ministers relieves the duties of Director Topčagić. The only person whose status is at the head of the Agency, in my opinion, is the legal person whom Mr Topčagić authorised to act as director in his absence and prevention. And that's all we have. The chairman of the Council of Ministers has specific rights and obligations vis-à-vis this institution and this stems from these acts, but it is a matter of the policy of the institution, it is not a question of day-to-day management of the institution. I want here, the record works, and that's why I told everyone to take what's coming from this whole thing, because one day this someone will read, among other things and for this case, to warn, so in my opinion, that, on a regular administrative, operational, everyday, current affairs of the Directorate, which has the status of its own, no one but the person authorized by the outgoing director, in a situation where the Council of Ministers can't make a different decision. Anyone who gets involved today, if he gets involved, I don't know, I haven't explored it, in these Agency affairs, or Directorates, other than the Director, I think he'll have a problem with the law in the future. I want to make this clear and order, if you can accept, I'm well-intentioned. If you can't, then there's really nothing I can do to help, because here we have a conflicting opinion on this issue, but in my opinion, this is how it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23884	We have registered for replica: Drago Kalabić and Niko Lozančić. Here you go, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23885	Well, here's what we've been discussing for a long time, and I will, as my colleague Džaferović said, with two aspects. Since this operation of saving the Orders of Osman has shown a great deal of what may have been covered up in the present period and today has shown its rightful face in the fact that one man to whom the term of office has expired during the summer, who took office elsewhere and created a commitment in that second place in legal and any other sense to remain in the management of this process in this way that he tried to do so, I do not think it is acceptable. In a legal sense it is quite clear, the chairman explained on several occasions today that no variant has violated the law, and its willingness to bring sanctions, so if it has broken the law, it clearly shows that it cannot be imputed to it. All these explanations that someone, who has been given a mandate, contrary to the law, can determine their successors are showing something else, which is, in this 130 political sense, that the European future of this country will be determined only by members of a nation. That there is only a story for Europe that will be created by the people, which I don't think is good and this message to the chairman – that you can have a formal position but you won't interfere, we don't trust you, although you are in acts responsible for European processes, we don't allow you any operational possibility to influence these processes, you're not like that. You're the chairman, but we have some vision and some of our actions in Europe that we want to make, that's a message. It is a message although it clearly stands, because when you see from this, even if we do not enter these legal fineses that are absolutely on his side, the political message is, when it comes to the European story of BiH, we do not trust you. We have our own scheme here that we want to spend and you're not invited. It would be fair for him to take the next move: to replace it, because the European path of BiH, we agree, for all of us, is the most important. If we don't trust him to have the right to influence the processes of this European Integration Directorate, then we know what the way is. This story about the division, which insists that everything is shared in this country, I ask the question to those who tried today and participated in sharing this – where they are going to stop. We share directives, we share people, we share positions, when and where you think to stop, when some others continue to demand other divisions to further share things. There's a problem then. Who's going to say that all of a sudden we're moving from this division where we're exclusively insisting that it be this, that it be that, suddenly, to jump to the level of a single state... like this and like that. We have a problem here because we're not principled.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23886	Time, Mr. Kalabić!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23887	People say or share it all the way or stop talking, because we won't be able to resist it, we won't find a principle of how we're going to stand up to what we're doing today. I was surprised that advocates, too, today some different organisations of BiH, those who advocate such, do not wonder, when it comes to European integration, whether this can happen to Sanader, whether this can happen to Đukanović, if this can happen to Mirko Marjanović. Can that happen to them? It can't be safe. Here is a more important party view, here is a more important national attitude to be taken and to be the boss of this country at the cost of not being or not getting anywhere, it is important that our party or national scheme does not fail and that it lasts as long as possible, both at the cost of breaking the law and at the cost of preventing this country's path towards Europe and at any other cost.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23888	Four minutes, I warned a man, and I let you, Bahtić, finish the sentence. Niko Lozančić, replica. _________(?) 131 [[no microphone turned on]] I'm dry, if Špirić sweats, I'm dry from this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23890	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the Honorable President and Chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Guests, and I, too, have sweated, must say, from the torment and shame that I sit here for these two hours. And, indeed, I didn't mean to make a contribution to this painful debate that doesn't lead to anything, which really doesn't make any sense, but, as it's said, all the problem is whether it's a Srbin or a Bošnjak, I figured if I don't go out, the public might think that the Hrvat doesn't even have one. Well, at least this way I tell you -- there are Hrvat still in BiH, although many in the distribution of functions don't count, they act as if they're not there. And it's not a problem whether it's a Srbin, whether it's Bošnjak, whether it's a Hrvat or not, or just a Bosniak-Serbian issue, the problem is here, indeed, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, bizarre. It is bizarre that the president and his deputy here in front of all of us and in front of the entire public show a high degree of mutual understanding, trust and willingness to cooperate. And I'm ashamed of it, I have to, you miss the third, you should have made him come at least to show he doesn't agree with you two, I'm ashamed because I'm one of the ones who raised his hand for the Council of Ministers' composition. And this really isn't a question for this home. I expected to get some brief information. We got the information, we can be satisfied, unhappy, each of us investigating who's responsible for what, unfortunately, we're late. I wouldn't go in here if the law was broken, which law was broken, I wouldn't accuse anyone at all. Unfortunately, at this point, we have the vacant position of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration, although here we have heard from this information, which I believe is that the previous Director's term of office expired half a year ago. Look, completely... who is, I'm sure this Parliament is not responsible and must not be harassed for it. This is the sole jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers. And we, as much as we wish, cannot enter the power of the Council of Ministers. So now we can't tell the Council of Ministers that it has no jurisdiction under the law to make a choice, call a tender, etc. We can give general assessments of whether the Council of Ministers is doing its job at all or not. Don't give today, we can schedule a special session, but I do ask both the presidents and the deputies to sit down a little more often, because the chairman often called on the leaders to meet. With all due respect to the leaders who meet and those who do not meet, for me as a representative in this House you three – You, Mr Sadovići and Mr Vrankić are the leaders of the Council of Ministers. I expect you, as leaders, to meet and negotiate, and to address certain difficult issues in the functioning of the Council of Ministers, which there is obviously, but to exclude the need, so to speak, that Parliament and the public are entertained even when you disagree. I understand that there are issues in which you disagree and there will be, but try to keep it within the Council of Ministers and try to make an effort as leaders to reach an agreement and to seek solutions that will please all of us. So I really wish we hadn't spent this much time here today. But no, there were all kinds of terms against the state. Look, all of us who don't do our jobs fast enough and efficiently, in a certain way, are working against this country's interest no matter what the reasons are now. So let's put all our efforts into doing a little bit more, a little bit better, a little faster, and respect each other for the lines of work. I think we're going to have a lot less need to have these topics in the future, even if we didn't spend this time in vain today...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23891	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić, for calling to order, work and peace, it is welcome at this time. There's another debater. Here's Selim. He's already up. Is there more? There isn't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, necessarily, of course, of course. We'll have another hour, Mr. Sadović, and you get ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23893	I will say that in the discussion of this issue, as I have noticed, the opposition did not participate and I would not participate, I would ask only and I am glad to have viewed this debate here as skating on ice and what was enough here... and if you were to give grades you have an evaluation for the technical part and you have a rating for the artistic impression. I will say that for the artistic impression is exceptional – one 100%, and this technical part – who and how listener. But for me, as the man who sat here, listened carefully, there is one very easy proposal. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, sit down, agree, come out, say – either you have agreed or resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23894	Here, this way we're exhausted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23895	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23896	I am in debt, please, I am in charge of the Rules of Procedure; I, Mr Špirić, please just for a moment, I think we have told each other, and I ask you to refrain from the replicas. 133
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23897	I'll do it for a while. Please nice, I don't think you got a request from me to be a part of the agenda. So, no request came from me, you asked. I am obliged to answer every parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23898	Please be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23899	I agree with Deputy Chairman, counterpart Zorić, the problem is that the system has evolved,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23900	Lozanca, Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23901	Lozančić, I'm sorry that he's evolved the system, and we don't admit it. Different competences of the chairman and deputy, business, read the Rules of Procedure. So, if you're making me argue like you do in the Presidency, of course we should get everything in line, where we can, where there are vague competencies. So, I have to say it. And I would like to go negotiating better, but of course Parliament has all the possibilities. I agree with my colleague Bešlagić. So, I tried to make a move once, so he's considered anti-state, because I'm producing a crisis. If there's a better solution and it's okay, but the worst thing is that you don't allow business and legal action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23902	Here, this is how I conclude debate on point 27. I hope we all get some lessons out of this and get past this. Moving to point 28. Ad. 28. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the draft Immunity Law So you know that we formed this Interresor Working Group. In its report, the Interresor Group has cut off the work of this task force since its founding. The conclusions of the 134 House were also mentioned at the 38th session to discuss the Interim Report we had here. The report shows that the Interresor Working Group also had some problems in its work. She practically finished the job but has no full consensus compared to the text she finished. What's left of us as a possibility? We are left with the possibility that, eventually, as a proposing, those who support such a text appear or that we are building new inter-resor groups which, in my opinion, would not be rational. So we have one text of the law. Whoever thinks he has the chance of someone who thinks he's a good solution should put him in the process. But this, this way, we end up officially and this house is informed of what happened. You had a chance to read it all. We've appointed people, and I think it's okay that we've had this today, no matter what big conclusions we can't make on this matter. But here, I'm making some kind of recommendation. So, who thinks this law has the right solutions, let's suggest so we'll see and see how things develop further. I'm closing point 29. Point 29, so: Ad. 29. Proposal for a concerted conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives on the report on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23909	No, it's not here, it's a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23910	And this is a lawyer, I'm sorry, I put it here, I apologize. So this is done, point 5. We're going to point six. Proposed law on lawyerry (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes" (21 Federation, two RS), seven "against", two "sustained", we have no entity consent. 137 Let's go, of course, to the second round. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes", seven "against", two "sustained", without... enough against from any entity, I find that we adopted the Bill of Lawyers in the first reading. And here we have one conclusion from Šefik Džaferović: To oblige the Constitutional Commission to carry out an expert public debate on this law. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes" (21 Federation, seven RS), one vote "against", three "sustained", enough both the general and entity majority. So I find that we have adopted this conclusion regarding this bill of law. We're going to point 7. Proposal for a law on preventing riots in sports competitions (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes" (22 Federation, three RS), four "against", one "sustained", we have no entity support from RS. We'll get along later. I'm not prejudicing, we'll get along. Excuse me a minute. We're going to point 8. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes" (21 Federation, eight RS), without the vote "against", three "sustained", we received both the general and entity majority. I find that we have passed the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters in the first reading. We're going to point 9. Proposal for a guarantee fund law (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 votes "yes" (20 Federation, three RS), six "against", three "maintained". It's an ex post adjustment. 138 let's go to point 10. Proposal for a law amending the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes" (22 Federation, eight RS), with one vote "against", one vote "remained", we have both a general and an entity majority. I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures in the first reading has been adopted. We also have the conclusion here, i.e. the Commission's proposal to organise a public debate. So, please, let us be clear about the proposal for a conclusion or this opinion by the Commission, according to Šefik. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes" (21, 10), without the vote "against", without the vote "sustained", we received both the general and entity majority. So I also find that we have adopted this conclusion on the organisation of a public debate on this law. We're going to point 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes" (20 Federations, eight RS), without the vote "against", four "sustained", I find that we have both a general and an entity majority and that we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration in the first reading. Let's go to point 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "for" (19 Federation, eight RS), without the vote "against", five "restricted", I find that we have both a general and an entity majority, and that we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Let's go to point 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). 139 prepare to vote. Vote now! With 24 votes "yes" (16 Federation, eight RS), four "against", four "sustained", I find that we have both a general and an entity majority, and that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the official vote of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Adem Huskić (first reading) Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes" (Federation 20, RS seven), one "against", four "abstained", I find that we have both a general and an entity majority, and that the Law on the official vote of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! With the 31st vote "yes" (Federation 21, RS 10), without the vote "against", with one vote "tentained", I agree that we have both a general and an entity majority, and that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. We're going to point 16. The BiH presidency's decision to place professional military personnel in formation posts in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces. So it's about confirming this decision. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes" (19 Federation, 10 RS), without the vote "against", three "sustained", we have a general and entity majority and I agree that we have confirmed the BiH Presidency's decision to place professional military personnel on formation posts in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces. Let's go to point 17. The BiH presidency's decision on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) mission in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. We also vote on confirming this decision. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes" (13 Federation, seven RS), one "against", nine "abstained", I find that we have both a general and an entity majority and that we have confirmed the BiH presidency's decision 140 on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces in the mission of the International Security Assistance Force to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Of course, in the debate, we supported, to put it this way, the condemnation that the Commission has issued for not attending the debate by the motionor. Let's move on, point 18. Decision of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on amendments to the Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And this is about confirmation. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes" (17 Federation, 10 RS), without the vote "against", five "sustained", I find that we have confirmed this decision. Point 19, well, we now have this series of deadline applications. Point 19. A statement by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the report on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Law proposal. An extension period shall be requested until 10 February. So, we vote on the request, we vote on an extension. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 20 votes "yes" (17 Federation, three RS), five "against", five "abstained", there is no agreement. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 22 "for" (20 Federations, two RS), seven "against", three "maintained". There is no one third "against" in any entity,... two thirds "against", excuse me, I understand that the request was accepted and that a new deadline was set on February 10th 2009. Let's go to point 20. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 2009 Can I move on? Thank you. So let's go to point 20. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also required to extend the deadline until February 10th. 141 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes" (20 Federations, three RS), five "against", four "abstained", we do not have... enough entity votes from RS. There's no consent. Please prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now! 21 votes “for ” (19 Federation, two RS), seven “against, ” three“ abstentions. ” There are no two-thirds "against" from any entity, and I agree that we have accepted the request to extend the deadline until February 10th for submitting the Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to point 21. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment. You're looking for a 20-day extension. So we're voting on an extension. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 23 votes "yes" (20 Federations, three RS), five "against", four "abstained", no consent, we go to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", six "against", three "sustained", we don't have two-thirds "against" from any entity and I realize that this requirement for an extension is also adopted by 20 days. Let's go to point 22, please just a little patience, 22. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment. It's about the law in first reading. We have not reached agreement, so we vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 24 "for", two "against", five "abstained", we have no "against" two thirds of any entity. I find that the proposal for a law on the control of the movement of weapons and military equipment was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point 23. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the 2009 Opinion on the Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations. Let's take it in a row. So it is about the conclusions of the SDA Club and the conclusion of the Remzija Kadrić. Let's go first and make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion of the SDA Club. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 142 22 "for", seven "against", two "sustained", without sufficient entity support.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23912	No, this is the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23913	Excuse me, round two. He's passed this conclusion. So, 22 "for", seven "against", two "sustained" and no two-thirds "against" from any of the entities, and I find that this conclusion of the SDA has been adopted. Let's make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion by Remzija Kadrić. We also vote in the second round, because we have no agreement on this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 "for" (18 Federation, two RS), five "against", six "abstained", without two-thirds "against" from any of the entities, and I find this conclusion was adopted by Remzija Kadrić. Moving to point 24. Report on activities on the project “Autoput to Corridor Vc” and Plan of the following activities. So we are voting on the Report and the conclusions contained in the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes" (17 Federation of Eight RS), two "against", four "remained", I find that the report received both absolute and entity support and was adopted together with the Commission's proposed conclusions. Let's go to point 25. A report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in 2008. We are voting on the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration with a correction presented by the chairman, Halid Genjac, unless the joint debate of both homes is managed to take place in the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "yes" (Federation 20, RS 10), one "against", one "abstained", enough entity majority, I find that we adopted this conclusion by the Joint Commission on European Integration, along with this correction I read in the minutes. So let's go to point 26. Final report on the implementation of the action plan of the Central Development Strategy 2004-2007. (PRSP) and Economic Trends, Annual Report 2007 Directorates for Economic Planning. So we are voting on receiving information to knowledge and we are actually voting on the final report, in a way, with conclusions, we are receiving 143 knowledge, with the conclusions contained in the Joint Commission's Report on Economic Reform and Development. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 26 votes "yes" (17 Federation, nine RS), two "against", three "sustained", I conclude that the Final Report has an absolute and entity majority and was adopted with the conclusions contained in the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development Report. Let's go to point 27. I have to do this carefully now, so point 27. Information from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers on the appointment of a director of the Directorate for European Integration. So, we have a variant of information being taken to the knowledge, and then we have to say in a way (although it writes an opinion here) on a kind of conclusion in front of this Commission for European Integration, where it is called on the Council of Ministers to address the problem of acting as director of the Directorate for European Integration, in accordance with the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, and that as soon as possible, the procedure for selecting a new director is completed. And we have another SNSD conclusion, I hope you have it on the table. Therefore, information from the Chair of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration shall be taken to the knowledge and shall be entrusted to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to propose, as soon as possible, that the Council of Ministers appoints a Director of the Directorate for European Integration, in accordance with the Law on State Service. These two conclusions are very similar, but here we go in a row. So we are voting on receiving information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers for Knowledge. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We are receiving information from the Chairman of the Council of Ministers for Knowledge. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No problem, we repeat the vote. So, we're voting on whether the Information of the Council of Ministers Chairman will be taken into account, and we've received it. So, get ready to vote. Vote now! With 16 votes "yes", seven "against", nine "abstained", we don't have a third from the Federation. It's a match. I'm in agreement, yes, I'm in agreement. So, we've received information for knowledge. Here's the information we've received. 144 We vote on... The Commission's proposal for a conclusion on European integration. Please, I read it in the record. Please prepare to vote. Vote now" Eight "for", six "against", four "maintained"; 16 Federation, two RS. We'll get along later. We're going to make a statement on the SNSD's conclusion proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now! So we'll get this right later. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23916	There's no, there's no, there's no...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-04-0.u23917	I'm sorry, he fell. All right, the other one's gonna fall when he gets here. All right, rotten old lady, let her day go by. Let's move on. Okay. Let's go to point 28. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the construction of the Proposal for a Law on Immunity. So, we're voting on the report, we should make a statement on the acceptance of this report. The Commission has completed its work, I reiterate that there is a final legislative project. Who appreciates being able to stand behind him, put him in a legal procedure so there won't be any effort in vain. Maybe through procedure, through amendments, etc. to come up with a solution. But now let's be clear about the Interresor Working Group's report on the draft immunity law. Vote now! Vote now! With 24 votes "yes" (16 Federation, eight RS), one "against", three "abstained", the report received support both absolute and entity support and I find it adopted. And we have 29. Proposal for a concerted conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Representative's House on the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008. You've reached a consistent conclusion. 145 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 28 votes "for" (18 Federation, 10 RS), two "against", two "abstained", I find that we have adopted the Commission's proposal for a conclusion on foreign affairs. And we are left with the last 30th item of the agenda – Statement on the initiatives of MPs Slavko Jovičić and Sadik Bahtić. Please, here, let me. Therefore, the promoters, i.e. the initiators of the initiative, propose to unite this initiative into one and avoid the House of Peoples, to lead the debate in the House of Representatives. So, please, we are pleading on the author's initiative Jovičić – Bahtić on the subject: the global financial crisis, i.e. the economic and economic situation. Pardon Jovičić – Bahtić and the debate on this point in the House of Representatives. Please prepare for the vote. We vote now! With 24 votes "yes" (19 Federation, five RS), seven "against", one vote "sustained", I find that we adopted these initiatives. This is how we exhausted today's agenda. I thank you. ...please, it's the next 18th, so just to remind you, the next session is February 18th. The seat is closed at 7.20 p.m.
