ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29694	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 62nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to members of the meeting, our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations monitoring the work of our home, as well as representatives of certain NGOs, were invited. We also invited the chairman of the Citizens' Appeals Committee to the work of police officers in BiH police bodies to discuss the rules of procedure of these committees. Representatives of the UGOR, the Association of People of Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia, and representatives of the Republic Association of Workers and Disabilities of Workers from Croatia with the citizenship of BiH are present. I welcome all present MPs and guests, I also welcome media representatives. According to service information, there are 23 MPs present at the session. The absence was justified by Ambassador Niko Lozančić. I have assurances that the other MPs will be joining us shortly. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to a debate on the agenda, I would like to introduce you on the following issues. DNS MP Ljiljana Milašin informed us that since 30 September 2009 he has joined the SNSD MPs' Club. The House of Representatives' College held a meeting with the Nationals' College on the implementation of the 60th session's conclusion and on the debate on Amendment II. to the Constitution of BiH (proposer of the Members of the Party for BiH Club). It was found that the House of Representatives was held at the 64th session, held on 31. 8. In 2005, he adopted amandman I. to the BiH Constitution, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and is essentially identical with Amendment II. which was delivered in the procedure by Members of the Party for BiH Club. The home of the people is at the 67th session, held on 5th. Ten. In 2005, he adopted the amendment in his first reading and did not continue the parliamentary procedure. The House of Peoples is expected to end the procedure, which you will later be informed of. As for MP Denis Bećirović's request from the 61st session to send an emergency to all institutions who have not answered the questions asked, I would like to inform you that we have referred the requested emergencyes, and we have provided you with an overview of the questions to which up to 8. Ten. In 2009, no answers were received. 2 I will brief you on the changes to the proposed agenda. Point 10 is removed from the agenda. The proposal for a law on tobacco in BiH, is proposed by the Council of Ministers, this law is in its first reading (on a proposal from the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, the Kolegijum met with the Commission and extended the deadline for delivering an opinion to 26. Ten. 2009); Point 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act, proposed by the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, is a law in the first reading (at the request of the committee in charge, the Kolegijum came forward and extended the deadline for submitting opinions to 26. Ten. 2009); Point 16. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Azra Hadžiahmetović's Parliament, because it was listed as point 6 of today's agenda, and the need for this point has ceased; Point 18. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in BiH (at the request of the Commission responsible for defence and security, we in the College were unable to extend the deadline, it was the Joint Commission, but we had to put this item on the agenda, since the business conditions had not been met and we did not get the opinion of the committee responsible. As soon as we get an opinion, the point will be on the agenda. The second points of the agenda of point 6 shall also be added to the agenda. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption, which is in the second reading; point 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, and point 21. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. Point 4, this is the Proposal for a Law on the Mine Action of BiH, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, which is in the second reading, is complemented by the Report of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young people, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics that is negative. The revised agenda you received and these were the introductory notes. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm realizing that the 62nd House session has the following. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 61st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. MP Adem Huskić's request to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-8-5409, of 3. Six. 2009 (second reading), with the Report of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-5-7609, of 21. 8. 2009 (second reading); 3 6. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and coordination of the fight against corruption (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law on general product safety – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-2-8609, of 25. Nine. 2009 (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Market Control in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-2– 8409, of 25. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-3-8709, of 25. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-4-8509, of 25. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02–5-6– 109 of 21. 8. 2009 (first reading); 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposed by MP Bajazit Jašarević, Law No 01-02-4-8309, of 16. Nine. 2009 (first reading), 13. Proposal for a law on the Control and Security Agency for the Violation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of seized property – Proposer of the SDP MPs' Club of BiH, Law No 01-02–5–8109, of 14. Nine. 2009 (first reading); 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget – Proposer of the SNSD Club, Law No 01– 02–4–3509, of 10. 4. 2009; 15. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH; 16. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in BiH police bodies (Act of the Board of Appeal No 01, 02-34-6–112109, of 25). Nine. 2009; 17. The discussion on the material "Position and measures to improve the situation of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and fired from work from 1991 to 1995" – the adopted Momčilo Novaković's initiative from the 53rd session of the House, held 13. 5. In 2009, the basis for the discussion was delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH, of 25. Nine. 2009; 18. The programme "Perspective" and Information of the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH on the transition and care of persons MOBiH and OS BiH, with Opinions and proposals of the Joint Commission on the Defence and Security of BiH (material No. 031-03-57809, of 21. Nine. 2009; 19. Information on measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers' material, No 01–50–3–100409, of 24. 8. 2009; 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Security Agency; 4 21. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean; 22. Resolution of MP Rifat Dolić, member of the Special Investigation Commission, for resigning; 23. Giving consent to ratification a) of the Agreement on the financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities with regard to cross-border programmes between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia under the 2008 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA) component, (b) of the 2008 grant agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on the basis of a cross-border co-operation component under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) for 2008 (d) of the Credit Agreement – The Completion and Equipment Project for the Four Hospitals – between the Saudi Fund for Development and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as part of the Convention on Health and Security of the International Convention, with regard to the International Convention, the International Convention on the Food and Security of the European Year. 187 from 2006 and Recommendations related to the promotional framework of professional safety and health at work No. 197 from 2006, g) Declarations on strengthening national and regional capacity for preparedness and response to epidemics and implementation of International Health Regulations (2005).), h) The International Atomic Energy Agency's Code of Conduct on the Security and Protection of Radioactive Sources, i.e. the International Atomic Energy Agency's amendment to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Now we move on to the realization of the read agenda. Point 1. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 61st session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29697	I have practically two interventions. They may not even matter that much, but I think it's permanent documentation and it needs to be corrected against what's written here. So, on page 1, as part of the previous issues, it should be concluded that Vesna Šain made a solemn statement, not only was she invited but she made a solemn statement. And on page 7(a) 3. when we stated about the Post Law, there was a shortfall between the first and second rounds of voting... the finding that the alignment was carried out without success.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29698	Thank you. Does anyone else have any objections? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. Member of the Commission Questions to this session were answered: Rezmija Kadrić of the Council of Ministers, asked at 60th session; Husein Nanić of the Federal Ministry of Finance, asked at 59th session; Selim Bešlagić of the University of Sarajevo Clinical Centre, asked at the 60th session; Željko Kuzmanović of the RS Finance Minister, asked at 59th session; Mirko Okolić of the Council of Ministers, asked at 59th session; Jozo Križanović of the BiH Ministry of Justice, asked at 59th session; Bajazit Jašarević of the Office for Consideration of Appeals, asked at 59th session; Adem Huskić of the Office for Direct Taxation, on the question asked at 60th session; Mirko Okolić of the Border Police, asked at 60th session. I call upon MPs who have received answers to report if they have a comment on the answers delivered. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29700	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I received an answer. There is a brief comment – I am not satisfied and I end up with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29701	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29702	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have received some more answers in the meantime and I would like to comment on three answers, and it is all three answers to the problem of implementing our laws and regulations that we have adopted. One of them concerns the Law on travel documents and, unfortunately, we see that in collapsing this law with what is happening on the ground, means in issuing travel documents, that for children up to 15 years of age, or for minors, travel documents are issued for two years, although the law says they are issued up to five years. That's the fact we have on the ground and, unfortunately, here from some, because of the problem with the servers, etc., we have this law with what's going on on on the ground. Another comment on the response also concerns the adoption of the Missing Persons Act which has also been adopted, but this law cannot be implemented because... the procedure is not operational, because there is no, the fund is not formed because of the lack of cooperation between entity ministries and non-compliance on this matter. That's why, so our law that we've passed on missing persons, I was thinking primarily here about marking the victims' places, so the dig site, it can't be operational, it's not operational because the procedure for the adoption of sublegal acts, or regulations, and the formation of a fund has not been completed. And the third question, which I received in the meantime, answers the question and concerns the request for the delivery of information whether BiH has a public investment programme from 2009 to 2011. The answer I also got and he was defeating again. In addition to the obligation that BiH must have a law on public investment at all levels, from Brcko District, entities, to BiH institutions, we do not have the document. BiH does not have a public investment programme in BiH and I do not know how we and the Foreign Affairs Commission make decisions on credit responsibilities, agreements, etc., I do not really understand on the basis of which documents, criteria and how these projects are coming in, they get the opportunity to run ahead of BiH if we do not have a single list of public investments in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29703	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29704	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received an answer to my question asked by the Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers, which was probably committed by the Ministry of Justice. I want to thank the Ministry of Justice for the very correct approach to this issue, because for the second time I get an answer in which and only the ministry admits that it has not answered the asked question. I would like to say here that I expect this answer to continue, but I would like to stress that, in fact, even in the Justice Ministry's reply, there is a major chaotic situation in BiH when it comes to the return of the nationalised 7 assets. Here, I want this ministry of success to find the right addresses in entities so we can get an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29705	Thank you. We no longer have the applications to answer questions and comments received. Now we're moving on to new parliamentary issues. Please sign in. Dear Ambassador Vesna Šain, the fastest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29706	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Please answer me: 'What activities have been undertaken after the signing of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and what happened after the ratification process was carried out, that it meant access to the Option Protocol?' And second question: "What legal and sublegal acts regulate this area at entity level?" That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29707	Thank you. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29708	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I refer my question to the BiH Council of Ministers. It's very short, very clear, and I don't think I'm going to have to explain it. So, the question is, "Is there anyone in this country competent to prevent the erosion and disappearance of cultural institutions and does the Council of Ministers have any opportunity to influence the competent authorities to stop defeating the trend of shutting down renowned theatres, libraries, museums and not counting?" My question will only make sense if the Council of Ministers reacts spotlessly to it, not if it just answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29709	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29710	Dear chairman, esteemed guests, colleagues and colleagues! First question: "What concrete measures will the BiH Ministry of Justice take in the BiH Council of Ministers after the unfounded and unfair verdict of the District Court in Belgrade will the citizen of BiH, Ilija Jurišić, with the aim of protecting the fundamental human rights of the same?" I ask the question to the Minister of Justice at the BiH Council, Mr Bariša Čolak. Second question: "What concrete measures will be taken by the foreign ministry of the BiH Council of Ministers following the publication of an unfounded and unfair ruling by the District Court in Belgrade on the part of the BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić, with the aim of protecting the fundamental human rights of the same?" I am asking the foreign minister at the BiH Council of Ministers Sven Alkalaj. The third question: "What concrete measures will the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees take in the BiH Council of Ministers following the publication of an unfounded and unfair ruling by the District Court in Belgrade on the part of BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić, with the aim of protecting the fundamental human rights of the same?" I am asking the question of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the BiH Council of Ministers Safet Halilović. A note to all three questions. Given the extremely poor state of health of BiH citizens Ilija Jurišić, I ask that these questions be answered within seven days at the latest. Since a large rally of citizens of Tuzla and BiH in Tuzla was scheduled on Monday (October 19th), I would ask if it is possible before the start of the rally on Monday to get concrete answers to these questions. All three of the questions I'm delivering, of course and in writing, I'm looking for answers in writing. And I have one question that I ask orally and ask for an oral answer, because it's obvious that after more than a year of my insistence, otherwise I can't get an answer to some questions. That's why I'm going to start with today's session. I ask the question orally, it is very simple, Minister of Justice at the BiH Council: 'What cars did the Justice Ministry buy from 1 January 2007 to today? I'm only interested in the price of the car and the type of vehicle." So, I'm looking for an oral response today at the session, and I believe the minister knows information from his ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29711	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29712	Thank you very much. 9 Gentlemen of the Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two questions. The first question is the defence minister in the BiH Council of Ministers: "What is the legal procedure for destroying excess weapons or weapons that does not meet adopted standards in the BiH Armed Component and has there been any abuse and any improper behaviour of responsible people and institutions on this sensitive issue so far?" In this politically unstable time in BiH, among other things, speculation and suspicions are emerging from both domestic and international officials, both in the process of destroying excess weapons that do not meet the prescribed standards or seized weapons from citizens in BiH and that some of the weapons are being misused, instead of in the cannons, end up with arms dealers, undergrounds and individual illegal groups. These speculations at this time are at least a serious matter, and as an MP, I want to know if there have been any abuses in this matter in post-war time, and if not, I think it would be useful for the official institutions to publicly deny it and thus remove any doubt and speculation. The second question is the question of the BiH Council of Ministers of Civil Affairs Ministers: ‘What health institutions in BiH can today be treated with cancer chemotherapy, how average patient waiting for this prescribed therapy is, and is there an objective need for modernising existing and training of new health institutions to perform this type of therapy?’ To ask this question, I am encouraged by the information that only UKC Kosevo has been trained to treat chemotherapy in the Federation of BiH and that patients for this therapy have to wait on average for four to six weeks. The second reason to ask this question is because I believe and other colleagues are getting more and more citizens to help in trying to shorten this waiting for chemotherapy, because, of course, every waiting for this patient therapy is an additional psychosis that lasts forever. Faced with this kind of appeal for help, a man is naturally crucified between a desire to help a sick man and a desire not to escape the one waiting for order or to unconsciously fall into the trap of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29713	Thank you. I call on Members who want an oral answer to be made in accordance with Article 153 to "speak a brief submission with one question" so that they can continue the procedure. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29714	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me ask two very short questions today. ... The first question is for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Secretariat, asking for information to provide me with a list of all the laws that did not receive support in this House's term because of the so-called. entity voting means lack of enough votes from one of the entities. 10 And a second question to the BiH Ministry of Security: 'Will the parliamentary procedure also pass a law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, since the procedures of business allow the law to be re-delivered. I'd like, if there's someone in this ministry who can answer me orally immediately; if not, I'd like an urgent answer, for a reason, if the Ministry has no intention of doing so, that any of the parliamentary groups or the College should initiate this procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29715	Thank you. I would like to refer you to the first question asked by honourable MP Denis Bećirović, the answer was delivered to him, the same question you can get. Mr. Husein Nanić, I'm speaking to you and I don't think it's appropriate for you to speak to the Sekretarijat. Since I answer your question, it's very clear, so the answer already exists. All you have to do is look for it in the Secretariat, there's no need for a special answer to write. At the same time, to many such answers, all correspondence is with our service where all MPs can go and check the information. Therefore, the answer exists, there is no need to set it, but the answer is made. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29716	The Honorable Chairman, because of the objective delay, I failed to comment. If that's possible now, I can comment on two answers. Is it possible?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29717	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29718	Eh, thank you very much. I received an answer to the parliamentary question regarding the assignment of land to Mr Branimir Glavaš and formally-legal it is as it stands. However, it is a little indicative that the competition was called right after his defection in BiH, then it is a little indicative that he is the only one to apply for the competition and thus win the country. But, well, about that, by that, you'll see. Furthermore, on the second question, I comment on those who were visiting... Mr Boris Tadić, the president of the Republic of Serbia, claimed that his visit was not in line with the regulations and laws that were to be followed by the Border Police, when it comes to his arrival and his escort. It shows from this letter -- it was probably all read by me not to read it, not to waste time -- that the border police had acted on all the legal standards and that there was no failure when the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadić, arrived, and that all these stories were made up of speculation. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29719	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A parliamentary question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić: "Are the legitimate decisions of the Council of Ministers when we know that we do not currently have a deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and chairman of the Committee on Interior Policy?" Reason: The Council of Ministers Act, Article 26a) 2 made it clear: 'The Committee on Internal Policy is a coordinating body for the area of work of the following ministries: the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, Civil Affairs, Justice and Security. Any questions raised by the department of office under the heading (1) of this member, prior to the debate at the Council of Ministers' meeting, shall be subject to prior discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. As a rule, the Committee shall be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and shall be composed of ministers and deputy ministers of the position (1) of this member, representatives of the Directorate for European Integration, the Office for Law, and other members in accordance with the Council of Ministers' decision." As regards the Rules of Procedure on Labour, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers in Article 13 and Article 31(3) shall, in the same way, specify those views. It is very clear from the above that the chairman of the Council of Ministers cannot convene the Council of Ministers meetings and discuss materials not previously discussed on the Committee on Internal Policy, nor can the meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy be held without the appointment of the Minister of Security, who is the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Chairman of the Committee. I think the chairman of the Council of Ministers will understand the question I am giving him with the explanation that I have raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29721	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29722	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short question for the Ministry of Human Rights, which is to provide me with a report on the return of mental patients from Hungary, who left Jakesh in 1992, with a complete order and calendar of the activities of the Ministry of Human Rights on the need for this return and what is the plan for their return to the country? 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29723	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29724	Dear guests, first I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia for the answer and I will comment when I receive answers from the other two institutions that I have asked the question. And my question, which I am asking at this session, is to the Agency for Investigation and Protection, and it says, "Is there one within the Agency for the Investigation and Protection of Units that oversees any abuses in using the Internet, and are actions taken against those who commit such abuses?" Explanation: Lately, we have seen more and more frequent occurrences of radical texts and websites on the internet that spread international and religious intolerance, but for me, even more and more worrying about the fact that there is an increasing phenomenon of child pornography in countries in the environment and, as far as I know, Serbia and Croatia have a highly developed intelligence network that monitors such phenomena on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29725	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29726	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honored guests, I asked a parliamentary question in September about the budget and again I ask the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance: 'When are they going to put into the budget procedure a proposal for 2010, do I not explain why?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29727	Thank you. And we have Reverend Sead Jamakosmanović. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29728	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Defence. ... So the question is: 'How many BiH citizens with dual citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and Croatia, based on the special relations of entities in BiH with these countries, serve as professional military persons, or how many BiH citizens are recruited on this basis in the armed forces of the Croatian and Serbian states?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29729	Thank you. And by doing so, we have concluded the parliamentary questions. Moving to point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29730	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29731	So, in accordance with Article 153(2), I forwarded your question to the Minister, he decided, in accordance with point (3), that he could not give an answer today. Therefore, expect to receive a response within 7 to 30 days according to that point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29732	In line with the Rules of Procedure, the minister should say whether or not he can answer this question, only to get a better understanding. So, did the minister say he doesn't know the current answer to the question or?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29733	Yeah, I got the information, but here you can get it from the minister himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29734	Mr. President, just a very short one. This answer will be given precisely in writing by Mr. Representative and by the very fact that it is part of the Ministry and the Fate Police. I don't want to just improvise, although I'm over 90% sure, but there are 10% of them, and I don't want 14 simply to give an answer, because I'm not 100% sure about every vehicle. You will receive a comprehensive response as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29735	Thank you. Is this enough? I hope we can get to point 3 now. Ad. 3. MP Adem Huskić's request to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure The proposed law is Adem Huskić. The law delivered 30. Nine. In 2009, with an emergency request. So today we're discussing an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on the request. Does the promoter have a need to explain the demands? Proposer, honourable Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29737	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm the formal signator of this proposal and basically, let's say, the motion is the Constitutional Commission of our home. Namely, here, in the course of considering the addition of the Law on Defence, I have submitted certain amendments. ... Two were accepted, and one of these amendments was not accepted because it was in some way an area which was not the subject of the law, but the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission was that the area should be resolved as proposed. And I've been working with... this legislative sector of ours, and I've made this bill, and here's my formal proposal, and I suggest we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29738	Thank you. I don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01, 02-02-8-54/09, of 3. Six. 2009 (second reading) 15 At the 57th session of the House, this law was adopted in the first reading. At the request of the Joint Committee, the College of the House extended the deadline for the submission of the report to 12.10. The committee responsible delivered the report to 9. Ten. In 2009. The Commission did not accept the draft law. Today we are discussing the Joint Commission Report and you know what the procedure is: if we adopt this report, the law falls; if we do not adopt, the law returns to this commission for review. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29740	Dear Chairman, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen from NGOs and international organisations, as well as guests, media representatives, colleagues and colleagues, as known, this law has been given, as I am informed, unanimous support at the Council of Ministers. And since I was present at a session of the Joint Commission, because I was invited to be the applicant of the amendment, and I was the only one from the House of Representatives who had submitted amendments, although I wasn't satisfied with the development of the situation, so I will call it, and at the session of the Commission itself, but I didn't want to, I'm going to say to the people's jargon, the vaccineer, although one part of my amendments was accepted. There were several essentials I insisted on on the commission itself, so later I gave up and I didn't want to renew in the business procedure to defend them at the plenary stage today, because I wanted this law to simply pass. But the mood on this committee wasn't like that. I will not express any disappointment or make a positive statement about all this. The position of the Joint Commission is what it is, of course, I say, I was in the capacity of the amendment promoter, but what is indicative is..., since it is a Joint Commission on Human Rights, that counterpart Ivo Miro Jović has proposed a number of amendments, I would say, in the same text as my own, and of course it could not be accepted or accepted by all of Mr Jović's amendments as well as mine. But here, it is about our home, so I am obliged to say that we would not be – not as the applicant of the amendment, but as representatives, it is mostly later reflections on Serbian representatives from the RS, especially SNSD – that we would not be guilty, I gave up that part of the amendment, although I was not satisfied that they were not accepted, because I wanted to give the passing of this law to be adopted today. As it is, this committee's position was like that, of course I'm not a member of that committee, nor could I influence it, and that's good. We have the opinion of this committee, and here it is, chairing it, and, of course, we, when we make a statement about all the points, will be made clear about what the fate of this law is. You said rightly that he could fall and pass, that's two options, not three. Or to go back to someone else, but I no longer see the purpose of going back to the procedure when it was practically all over. Of course, the mood was what it was. I can also say that I am now supporting this law to be passed regardless, once again, which is what my amendments to essential nature and they were not textual or any other formal nature so that I would say now that I am giving up, but they were fundamental but, precisely, because of my constructive performance and giving the possibility of the law getting support, I didn't want to insist on this whole procedure, so that it would be delayed indefinitely. But here, I say, the Joint Commission has decided so, so we'll see what's, what's gonna happen, what's fate. 16 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29741	Thank you. The second vice-president, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29742	I'm going to say something about the reasons that our joint commission has led to this report being negative. So, here it is formulated that it exists, and it stands out, worried that the proposed law does not provide donor funds. And mostly, since demining is mostly financed from donations, there is a real danger of lagging behind in solving mine problems in BiH. I absolutely understand our commission's concern for this process is extremely important for the state, because after the war we had 1,675 mine victims in BiH. However, it is not clear to me how any law can compromise or not compromise donor funds. So when you pass the law, you cannot discourage or encourage donors, etc. So, the donor decides autonomously and assesses projects and his interest whether or not he will participate in it, so that these reasons, in my opinion, are not, in fact, such a nature that this report should, as far as we are concerned, accept today. In the proposed law, it was said that funding and newspapers were introduced, so that practically domestic authorities take responsibility, all levels of government take responsibility for funding this activity. The very fact that the state finances an activity is encouragement, or it is an argument for collecting donations, thus also shows its responsibility to problems. Of course, loans and donations have been left, etc. I think, in addition, the very important thing about this law is that the state gets this agency, gets an institution instead of a commission, etc. So, when it comes to the stranka for BiH, we will not support this report and we will ask that this be reconsidered, especially from the point of view of the donation argument. So we don't believe this law will refuse donations. We can't run from procedures either, there are procurement laws in this country, there are public procurement laws, there's a vault in this country, there are clearly defined cash flows in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29743	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29744	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, firstly about this law that was found on the Commission for Human Rights was a dilemma whether it should be on this committee or not, so there was this correspondence between the College and the Commission. And, well, I think the wrong address was this commission, but that's what it is, so we got the material to make this commission known. 17 This procedure has been going on for a certain period, and in the meantime, an opportunity has been created for me to personally talk to many of those who have so far funded demining in BiH as a very important segment for this country. According to what I know, the BiH state, or the BiH state budgets, did not have any big consideration or desire to find adequate amounts of money in the BiH budgets that could answer this question. A large, or that part of the countries that have so far been a donor for demining in BiH has or their representatives in BiH have held talks with me personally and believe in me and with other members in this commission and where they explicitly said that this demining project in BiH will come at risk, given that their countries in this way, as proposed in the law, cannot allocate funds for demining in BiH in the future, because domestic regulations in one part of the countries do not allow. I believe today that this is a very important issue for this country, and the relationship between the BiH state so far, I will repeat, was not adequate and according to the information I have, so the first kind of draft budget to be done in the Council or which was made in the Council of Ministers has not again provided any funds for demining in the amount that is adequate for next year. So... in this situation we have in the procedure of the law with the weekning that he will pass, and we have in the procedure of some kind of draft budget that is not compatible with this law. So I think it's better to have money to demining... and the direction and demining programme in BiH that is under way, than the law that... will not allow funds, funds for demining in BiH. I therefore call on you to adopt this negative report in order to reach a law that will not be an obstacle to BiH's largest demining donors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29745	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29746	Chairman Milorad Živković. I'm sorry, there's a replica, here, wait, Slavko, a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29747	Thank you. In fact, I think it's less important which commission was in charge of this law, because apparently there would be a similar situation on another commission. The fact is that there was an ethnic vote in this committee and that no Bošnjak supported this law, and that the Council of Ministers, as far as I know, unanimously supported this law. So we have one position where one is respected when the Council of Ministers unanimously passes the law that he or she is being rewritten or knocked down, and on the other hand, it is perfectly normal for the law to receive unanimous support from the Council of Ministers and then find objections to that law. I do not believe that in the Council of Ministers there are people who have not taken into account that BiH will eventually run out of donations or that the agency will not be planned in the budget. At the same time, I believe that we have a Demining Centre, which is a typical executive organisation and has been fed in a way that the Centre of Slovenia has managed jobs, and they were only 18 executives here, unlike this legislative proposal where the Agency is placed in the position of an administrative organisation that also manages and executes jobs and allows donors to make their donations through the Agency and that 4% of the funds, which go to Slovenia, are transferred to BiH. So that's how BiH can get extra money. I'm not saying to supervisory that someone else can't be authorized, but this is a way for us to take the whole process into our own hands and I don't see anything controversial here anymore unless they're political reasons, but then let's talk about political reasons, which are the reasons why this isn't done in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29748	Azra Alajbegović,... Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29749	The Honorable Chairman, what I've gained from the Joint Commission: three things. We had a proposal from the Council of Ministers and I'm closer to your discussion, Mr. Belkić, that this is a very important matter, a very important matter. As Mr. Živković said we had a proposal, we had suggestions from the Council of Ministers... on many other laws so they fell down here, but I won't commit to it. Here's the point, Mr. Živković, is what you've potentiald. On that commission was the struggle to remain in office of this Slovenian organisation that defends its interests and which said so on this committee: if we are gone and if we do not come through us and we cannot, like they only provide donations, BiH will not get stamps, if we are gone, you have nothing. Now, I mean, she was the main dilemma on this committee. Then so-called. The expert group and commission that prepared and did all this? I'm always, I repeat, here in Parliament, creeping out when I hear the word of an expert, I've seen there which experts, who defend their position, and that commission wanted to keep their action still so that it wouldn't pass, by law, into this agency. It was... it was an agency, it was a commission, what it was, let this go into procedure. And I now think that the Slovenian organisation, which takes 3% to 4% of all the funds collected for some indirect action, that we do not need it. But that was the attitude of that representative, I don't know if he's here, I wish that, which he said exactly, here's the chairman, here's the members of this committee: if they're not there, no donations, no deminings, and you certainly don't predict even a stamp in the budget, and this is what it stops. So we were shocked. So, based on what you said, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Belkić, I do not believe that the donations of foreign countries will stop if BiH takes over. And in many things BiH should take over because various intermediaries, good friends of ours, and I support them, but in many things they didn't exactly show up when it comes to being our friends. Everyone wants to shut down, as they would say, it's for themselves at least, and 3%, my Bog, it's not bad for donations, so they live here in BiH, so everyone here has their own interests, and that's what we're against. We're not against it. That's why I'm closer to this proposal by Mr. Belkić to let the law live and to one next session, and to bring it back again and see what our interest really is. According to that system, as I always say in Parliament, I'm glad that everyone around us lives, all the neighboring countries, but I prefer that we be safe here. And if we don't solve this, and the number of these victims, it's not just 75 tragically injured people, it's destroyed several thousand families who have lost their loved ones in peace. We need to have a little compassion for these people's tragedy, and this is 19 ways to speed this up, and at least those critical areas there are resolved so that people can. The other thing, we stopped,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29750	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29751	Here I am finishing up, we stopped agricultural work, we stopped production because people can't go out to the estate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29752	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29753	Mr. Chairman, the replica is part of what you said. As a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which on two occasions deals with this problem, I must argue contrary to your statement. In fact, even though our initial position was that we were not very competent, we acted really in accordance with our name by protecting human rights. I remind everyone of the fact that despite us demining goes thanks to foreign donations. When I say in spite of us, I say it documentedly, because in the course of this year, let my colleagues correct me, no mark from our budget has singled out to help this process. There is another thing even ordinary citizens understand, and so do I because I am not an expert in economics – I cannot pay donations to budget accounts. So it is explicitly explained, here it is constantly said that some inter-resor or expert groups have interests, people who run this commission, inter-resor or expertly, whatever you call it, did not receive any material compensation this year, were not driven materially, at least so explicitly and publicly claimed to us. We were the only ones who were worried. And I think that, given the rights of BiH citizens not to be threatened by mines. We were concerned by the end of the flow of funds by various administrative bans and regulations in the donor countries, and that concern was not figurative, but was also based on forecasts for the budget next year. There's one more thing that's been insinuating us. Why do we change the law or bring new ones when the process of demining is under way? A question has been asked by a member of our commission: why change something that works well? If we can't improve it, don't let us spoil it. And now just specifically and, for the end, I would ask our chairman to look into our record from this committee and see who pleaded for, and who against, and who was abstention. There was no ethnic statement, or no ethnic statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29754	The second deputy chairman, Beriz Belkić, has a replica. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29755	Mrs. Malić, you kind of have a replica. So why are we changing the law? Because the Council of Ministers adopted a document in 2008, i.e. the Mine Action Strategy. The strategy was also planned to address this problem from 2009 to 2019, and this strategy also predicted that this area should be inoculated, i.e. the law is inspected in relation to the one that was adopted seven years ago, six or seven years ago. So that's one thing. Therefore, there are reasons through the document of the Strategy to pass a new law, i.e. to change the existing one. And the explanation there says, because the procedures are more than 70%, or such dimensions, that it's more logical to do a new law than to change and supplement the existing one. When it comes to donations and funding, etc., it is certain that you know some things as well as I do, so when the thing began back in '98. etc., when the United States gave that initial capital, which is very significant, they then hired a Slovenian agency, etc., etc. I mean, so it's not at all controversial. However, the time has come for this country to have its own administrative organisation and that from a loosely organised committee, etc. He's moving on to the management organization, to get this agency. And I'm totally convinced, and I don't think donations will go into the budget, not donations go into the budget, they'll go into demining projects. But everything has to be recorded through the vault in this country. Why we've been talking about origin here for years, the way we spend, and this and that. So you know why? Because it wasn't recorded through the vault, etc., which all donors, in some ways, conditioned, and we unnecessarily accepted the way the funds were implemented. So, I don't think that's the reason. Of course, solutions can be both like this and like this, I just think that this law should be returned to this commission, that one more look at it and see these things that we've discussed here. Does he really eliminate donations, will he really stop the process of demining? Of course, this law, if we adopt it someday, and I hope we will, it will be required for the budget. There's no money in the budget when you don't have a user, when you don't have a law that says that. So if the Council of Ministers had adopted this law, the finance ministry would certainly treat the financial support of this law and oblige and lower levels of government, entities, municipalities, cantons, etc. Well, when it comes to compensation, my information is different. So, besides compensation, there are other obligations to be made to that commission. So, vehicles, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29756	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29757	I don't know if I'd say replica, but if I didn't get the wrong impression that I was against the law, I wouldn't. So we need to create the possibility that we have a law, but such a law that won't refuse these donations. So, according to all the conversations we've had, which I personally had, that the existing essence of the law is impossible to fix, in that sense. So, that's what, it wouldn't be good for us here, or the Council of Ministers, to bring this process into some position when 21 will stop demining, and in the meantime, don't God Bog, there's a death case somewhere. Then it's a bigger problem, and then it's a much higher price than all of our stories we're talking about here. So now I think that we need to deal with things fragmatically to allow the country to raise money and from those who, by their laws, can give money to the vault and to those who see this process as a humanitarian project and thus their country refers to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29758	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29759	I thank you, Chairman. The replica refers to Mr Belkić's exposure. Given the intention and the desire to get more time, it means that this law is being discussed without him falling, I warn of the next fact..., and there are still, two things the replica refers to, the next fact that this law means putting off the force of the existing law on the day of entry into force. Therefore, if we decide on the extra time we need, I warn that it takes as short as possible, minimum time for us to pass this law for the following reasons: a member of this 19th law treats financing, means from the BiH institutions and the Federation budget, etc. Budgets are already in preparation, everyone is doing budgets and they are already in first reading, they should be in parliaments. For this reason this law would have to be immediately, so it was passed as soon as possible in order to be required by the budget to be installed... given the entry into force of this law. I'm warning you, so this whole time, we don't have time to waste on this. Very briefly, we have to make a decision on this if we want it to come into effect so that it can be financed from the budget under this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29760	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29761	You see, I think it's about about 90 million marks a year that we get through donations. These are serious funds, a serious problem, and I think that we should have a written view of those who give these funds: for what kind of solutions they are, or for which solutions they are not. I don't think we can base this on some oral stuff. Normally, in this country, after all, what counterpart Slavuj said, we need to put everything in order and put everything into BiH's organs, but if it will refuse donations, then we need to seek some interdependence. And that interdepartment should be based on the written attitude of the largest donors, so Nijemac and Amerikanac. 22 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29762	Thank you for the discussion. Dear Ambassador Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29763	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, through these replicas practically, in some way, the biggest part of my discussion is already a penalty, but I would just like to say that in a very serious way in the course of its two sessions, the proposal for this law, and we have indeed maximum regard for the fact that the Council of Ministers has unanimously delivered this law to the parliamentary procedure. As far as the vote itself is concerned, in the end, and the Joint Commission's report is as it is, there was no political nor any other motive for the absence of the Bosniak people's vote. Through a very long discussion and through, in some ways, certain arguments from the representatives of this Slovenian agency and members of the Interresor Working Group, we were actually in a situation that we were absolutely in favour of the law during the entire session of this commission. However, BHMAC's representative took the last word on the Joint Commission and it is, in fact, the one who, in some ways, broke that our own, actually my personal voice which was abstention in the vote, because he said that $78m has been spent through projects so far through donations related to mine action, that in a situation where we pass a law like this and if it means missing funds from donors in BiH will last until 2020 and some years, and that in a situation where we remain the funds from donations, which will be operational in a way that is operational in the past and in the current moment and in the very near future, that this process of demining in BiH can be completed significantly earlier. Our only motive for such a vote and such a statement on this committee was, above all, the desire to mean the process of demining ends, that we do not have victims of people, and on human lives, and on a matter of certain incapacitation of our citizens in a situation where this process would be so slow to take place. And in fact, what was still me, in some way, identified the fact that he was a representative of the Resolute Ministry, which is the Ministry of Security, was present on the Joint Commission, he and... civil affairs, he was, I would say, loud enough for a loud enough and against the adoption of this law. So, the representative of the Resort Ministry is not us, in a certain way, as I would say, no matter what we persistently insisted on his decadent statement. And as the crown of everything it was that the draft budget was already largely for the next year in the operational section, that there was no means for such a thing and actually the absolute motive was an attempt to retain donor funds and donations for mine cleaning and no other motive of members of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Bosniak People was present, and I would like to say it here publicly. We absolutely care that this process is regulated, we care that the process is regulated by law, because it's the only logical and normal and constructive and perspective in the future, but our motive was concerned that these new 100 million, or I don't know how much, will be left. 23 As for the Interresor Working Group, all experts were present. We really didn't get any reference from those experts, and we asked them to tell us what the primary location of the Interresor Working Group and those experts for this area is, given the fact that it's government officials who are experts, as I would say, outside of their usual working hours. And we, in fact, have in some way expressed concern that they are not time and referenced to lead this process in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29764	Thank you. Next for the discussion, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29765	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the argument, and those who are for the adoption of this law, or its adoption in the proposed text, and those who are against, stands. But it's a shame that we don't have a minister here today to explain whether this strategy,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29766	There's a minister in Budapest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29767	Or someone who could give us an answer, do you... (?) microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29768	Wait a minute, everybody can pick up whoever wants to explain. You go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29769	If you don't mind interrupting me. Could we know that the demining strategy, which is foreseen by 2019, stipulates that this is done solely by donor means or by funds from the BiH budget? Given that, to date, that is, this year, no funds for demining in BiH's budget have ever been foreseen, in this respect, I have proposed one conclusion that we would, in some ways, begin to take care of our own problem, which is a Bosnian-Herzegovina problem. And this blackmail by any agency or company in Slovenia or any other country is called corruption in our environment, because it is actually by political influence, by obtaining a certain profit or benefit it can be called corruption. For that reason, I would never agree to any blackmail. So if someone wants to help BiH or the peoples of BiH, let them do it in any way within the framework of the law. 24 Therefore, here I will propose, in this sense, that the Council of Ministers, when drawing up the 2010 budget, provides for certain resources, even if it is symbolic, but it will be a clear message that we will and want to take care of ourselves and demining the premises in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29770	Thank you. Discussion, Honourable MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29771	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, this law has indeed a series of shortcomings, and what might be best is that we return this law to the Proposer and that it respects all or does not respect all the objections it has been, both at the commission stage and in the debate today. In fact, some of the questions in the members are even resolved differently or can be interpreted differently. So let's say, the priority question defined by Article 13, then Article 21 and Article 24, is not defined in the same way. In Article 13, we have a sub) say that 'BHMAC proposes a list of priorities for the adoption of the entity government'. At the same time, Article 21(c), 2. c) says 'preparing a list of priorities for demining for entities', and in Article 24 sub (4),'requires procedures for determining priority levels'. So, very different is this question defined, which, of course, in the application of the law can produce certain problems. It also raises the question of the financing of these jobs itself, since it is quite clear how funds are managed. So here we have all the funds being pooled into a special budget of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, meaning the assets of the entities, although we know well who manages the funds after the distribution from the common account. That's one of the drawbacks. I'm only talking about those shortcomings that can, when the law is applied, produce certain problems in its application and probably lead to some segments and the inability to apply this law. Of course, a question can be seriously raised and necessary or unnecessary centralisation of the mine action segment into one ministry, taking into account a number of other recommendations, international standards, recommendations from the Geneva Centre for humanitarian demining, etc., and so on, not to elaborate much. All of this points to a serious need for the text of the law, I do not know how it is possible to return it to the Proposer or to return it to this Commission, and that the Proposer assumes today the obligation to change these shortcomings, or to change it until the session of the Commission, means to allow through the amendment some phase, possible, amendments to the law or another worse variant, is that the law does not go through today, to support this negative report by the Commission, and to propose, as soon as possible, a new text of law which will respect these remarks, but also the comments of the donor. Of course, none of us have the right to require that funds cannot be controlled. So it absolutely takes control of all the funds and donations through our institutions, but I'm not sure that the model proposed by this law is the right one and perhaps a happier solution could be found. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29772	I just want it to be clear to the MPs about the Rules of Procedure of the House of People, which is in part different from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives: that the legal project that has fallen cannot be reassessed for six months. Please have one such provision in mind regarding the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01, 02-02-5-76/09, of 21. 8. 2009 (second reading) At the 60th session, 16. Nine. In 2009, this law was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission submitted Report 12. Ten. In 2009. The Commission unanimously supported the proposed text of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency (Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29775	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the memo you sent us that if it is possible to submit amendments to this law by 12, I failed to make an objective investment within that time limit. The amendment phase of the Rules of Procedure is still possible. On the Constitutional Commission, I heard that if the amendments were to be proposed, there would be a break, they would be in session. If that's 26 possible, that would be best. And if you don't accept that, then I'm looking for a business opportunity, if that's possible, to plenaryly defend the amendments I've invested.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29776	I have a notice from the secretary of the service that the amendment is late and that it is not able to be done this way, based on Article 118. Rules of Procedure, suggest. For the simple reason we'd have to find other ways if Dom was in the mood, but here, we'll see. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29777	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to support Mr. Okolić's position. Namely, there is no chairman here at the Constitutional Legal Commission, and this report does not say so, but the other members of the Constitutional Commission have, on my proposal, agreed that amendments can be made to this day. Therefore, it is not possible for the College to reduce the amendment phase by a single notification. So we have an amendment phase of 15 days. I then and warned that it was possible to be an amendment and we agreed then, here is my colleague Adem coming in, and we agreed that if there were any new amendments to this day that we would take a short break and as a competent commission to bring a position on that amendment. If we accept it, of course there is a part of the text, if not, the MP would be entitled to the moment to renew the amendment, which we would respect the Rules of Procedure. Well, I'd really like to ask, in that spirit, there's been a debate on the Constitutional Commission, not to be complicated, it seems to me that it's a simple solution that will extend some 10 minutes maybe this session, not anymore, and we would respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29778	Thank you. If there is no one against such a proposal, I suggest we allow this amendment to be invested and the Constitutional Commission in the lunch break shall make its own report. We wouldn't have to extend the session, we'd have a chance to respect everything. For the discussion of the second vice-president, honourable MP Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29779	Here, I sincerely hope that these procedural aspects of which there is an argument, which Mr. Okolić and Mr. Novaković spoke of, will not distract us from trying to do a very important job today. So, I almost think there's no need to remind you that this is one of the conditions for the liberalisation of the visa regime that is directly under the obligation of Parliament and, in my opinion, of course, we must not miss the chance today to be able to make a statement about this law, and I absolutely support this variant because, ultimately, yesterday and at the Expanded College, we talked about it. 27 I answered the most to invite you all to indeed because this law was adopted unanimously by the Council of Ministers. There were no particularly controversial questions except for this seat. We exchanged opinions on the College, and here's an amendment, because simply the Council of Ministers has put us in a position to leave that cartoon at the headquarters of this agency, so empty. We will return this to the Council of Ministers and some in the total distribution we have been waiting for for years, so there are conclusions along the way confirmed that the Council of Ministers proposes a kind of redistribution, i.e. the distribution of the headquarters of various agencies, organisations, etc., following some suggestions, the requirements that have been practically delivered here from the session to the session. So here, to conclude, if I were not to take up your time, I would really recommend and invite us to adopt this law today anyway, and then we would be able to stay in the position that during the month, here is information that the Ministry of Justice has opened a new round of consultations on Criminal Law and there is a theoretical chance that the Council of Ministers would propose and this law by emergency procedure, and then we would still be left with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee, so that we as Parliament could still carry out our own obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29780	Thank you. Let's do, let's say, a little exhibition in the sense that I won't close the debate on this item on the agenda, the Constitutional Commission to take a break for lunch its report and to finish the debate after lunch on this law. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a General Product Safety Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01, 02-02-2-86/09, of 25. Nine. 2009 (first reading) The law is in first reading. He was delivered 25. Nine. ...years. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has delivered its opinion on the principles of Law 7. Ten. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis on 12.10. I'm opening a debate on the bill. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Market Oversight Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01, 02-02-2-84/09, of 25. Nine. 2009 (first reading) 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29786	I thank you, Chairman. I'll take a quick look at the bill. So perhaps, in general, this Constitutional Commission should explain the reasons why it now accepts the principles of the bill and, before that, at earlier sessions, did not support the principles of this law. But well, that aside, but, therefore, only about some principles regarding the adoption of this law. Therefore, these Articles 12 and 13 of this Act are to be followed by certain interventions to Article 20, proposing interventions to Article 29 of the basic text of this Act. And I have to admit that this member of the 12th and 13th. The bill, when it comes to these interventions, makes a certain mistake. A lot of these two members are mutually in some kind of contradiction, contradiction, so in the amendment phase we should try to remove these dilemmas. Not to enter now what a questionable constitutionality is, otherwise, this basic text of Article 29 of the basic law, why it was necessary in law at all for many of these institutions, administrations, etc. They stop working. I think that, in my opinion, is the constitutionality of this Article 29. These many institutions were to remain and all those institutions that were thus established before the BiH Constitution was adopted. So, this Article 12 and 13, I have to admit that I've had different texts as well. One Article 12 differs from some possible text of that Article 12, so that it is necessary to consider whether, in the proposal, Article 12 is valid, etc., so that in that part we should really try to correct these dilemmas in the amendment phase and find some solutions that would be acceptable for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29787	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH – Proposer: MP Bajazit Jašarević, Law No: 01-02-4-83/09, of 16. Nine. 2009 (first reading) 30 The law was delivered to 16. Nine. In 2009. The Commission responsible for finance and the budget delivered its opinion on the principles of law 8.10. Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis delivered 12. Ten. In 2009. I note that the European Integration Directorate also delivered its opinion on 6. Ten. In 2009. I'm opening a debate on this bill in my first reading. Proposer? Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević, as a promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29789	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in the previous procedure of adopting a new law on public procurement, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament have made an extraordinary effort to ensure that the existing Public Procurement Act is further agreed with the European Public Procurement Directives. Because unity could not occur in all segments of the law, the law did not go through the parliamentary procedure and the evaluation of the Finance Commission and the budget of our home is that it would be good to use certain segments of that law to remove the most important throats in the law through changes to the existing law. Therefore, the text of this proposal is absolutely identical with the text of the new Public Procurement Act and applies only to those parts of the Law that are the closest to the throats in the existing application of that law. The promoter would, at the first moment, be the idea of being the Finance and Budget Committee, so since it's just a matter of technical preparation of this law, we decided that here I would adapt the law. Given the good co-operation of the Agency for Public Procurement and the Commission for Finance and Budget, we delivered this text to the Public Procurement Agency and asked that, in addition to our proposals, or my proposal, they deliver members they think, out of their experience, that it is good to change in the existing law to make the law easier to apply. All these proposals from the Public Procurement Agency have been respected and inserted into this proposal. Finally, I would like to say that the acceptance of at least one member of this law is an improvement in the existing law, that the proponent is willing to give up any member unless consent is reached and I must say that there are some segments left in the existing law that will need to be corrected in the next period until a new law on public procurement that would be a good solution for BiH. Given the business constraints, which the chairman presented at the beginning of the session, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, and given one fact that it is already near the end of the mandate, we are not sure that by the end of this term he will be released again in the parliamentary procedure of the new law on public procurement and therefore it would be good to adopt these amendments in order to have a better and more adapted law on public procurement with the European directives in force in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29790	Vesna Šain. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29791	Thank you. This law is certainly better than the previous law with all the changes it has suffered, but I would ask for some clarifications from the promoter. This is Article 9 where it states: 'Article 45(2) is deleted. The Contracting Authority is obliged to ensure that the total annual value of such purchases does not exceed 10% of the annual procurement budget'. Legal practice shows that in this way, many contracting authorities that have a small... annual procurement budget can provide everything with a direct agreement that would leave room for manipulation, i.e. a monopoly would be created, because maybe this percentage of 10% should potentially increase to 20% or any other one just so that all or 90% of the procurement of these contract bodies with a smaller budget does not occur in several direct agreements. And another explanation where it says, "The contract authority can appoint a procurement commission." Maybe it should stand instead of a word it can – it has to or should be named. And finally, due to the great number of amendments to this law, after its adoption, it would be desirable to pass a law on public procurement – a consolidated text, because it is so little difficult to cope with in all these changes, I think it is already the seventh amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29792	Valimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29793	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, here, I will first give my support to this approach to resolving this issue. So it's known that a few months ago we had a law that was somewhat wider than what was now proposed to amend and supplement the existing law, but it didn't pass even though we held a public debate and heard from all the interested, in fact, a large part of the interested people and groups, what they think about this issue. It is not necessary to say how important and important this is, how important it is to improve this legislation and to actually compromise it as much as possible with EU standards, but also, in the realisation of this law, to be truly consistent and to respect everything that the law does and what it means. And what is its most important message, which is actually to make public procurement as transparent as possible, and to prescribe all possible procedures, as far as possible, and then to be done, because in this way one very important principle is achieved, which is the principle of openness, transparency and access to small and medium-sized enterprises in obtaining jobs, i.e., in this way, is actually giving equal chances to all and this is one way to reduce the action outside the law, namely corruption and the granting of jobs by some other principles and criteria, and not to those that the law foresees. Also, there may have been room for some more things to change and advance, but then there would be a greater danger or less chance of it going through. Perhaps this is the right measure and what Mr. Jašarević was saying, it is indeed so, so to the most extent this is harmonised, and that is what, approximately, was not disputed by that law that did not pass, and yet it will significantly improve the current state of legislation from this area. 32 So, my support and I think we'll get a much better law after we adopt these amendments and supplement the existing law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29794	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29795	Since it's one law that's really making a big difference in the entire economy and in the functioning of the budget on all three levels, our opinion is that this little concession is making it a little bit better. Since we failed to change what we were supposed to change, and our mandate is near the end, and our commission is one minimum that could agree with all others, already spoken of by MP Jašarević, as a promoter, and we supported that part and our club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29796	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29797	Thank you. I will also not speak for long, I will join what my colleagues in the Finance and Budget Commission have said, but I think it is correct to say a few words. First of all, I congratulate and thank Mr. Jašarević for having dared to make this, given that we had in the procedure a complete law that did not pass. This is one attempt, and he said so and on this commission, I think today, very flexiblely set: it means accepting all suggestions and this is, I would say, a minimum of what would, in some ways, enable the work of those to whom the law applies and also that there is a passage here in Parliament. And since it's about first reading, he said he accepted all the suggestions. So all the MPs think is not correct, including what the colleague was saying, so we can go through the amendment phase, and since I'm saying it's about first reading, I think we should support it. And once again I congratulate my colleague Jašarević on what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29798	This was really nice to hear, and let's just confirm by voting what we heard in the debate. So, I'm closing the debate on the point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see, Mr. Jašarević. Here you go. Here's to thank you for your thanks. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29800	No, no, so it's not. Yes, it was only a question: so we remain in that we will accept all amendments that agree on the Commission for Finance and Budget and with the Public Procurement Agency. The only restrictions are Directives of the European Union on public procurement. So there's nothing else that could limit us. And this Article 9 which is mentioned here not to exceed 10% of the annual procurement budget, this percentage was also questioned in past amendments to this law, so we gave up changing this percentage so we wouldn't cause any disunity. So, if there is an amendment, we will consider this proposal on this committee and, what we agree on to the Commission and the Public Procurement Agency, I think it will be in the final text of the law. The same applies to other remarks. Anything the Commission agrees with the Public Procurement Agency, which, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, is actually present at the Finance and Budget Commission, we will offer in the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29801	I thank Mr. Jašarević for these answers to some dilemmas and questions. No more reported, closing debate on item 12. We move to point 13, so, "Ad." 13. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Control and Security of Forced Disposal of Assets obtained by criminal acts and the management of seized property – Proposer: SDP MPs' Club (first reading) The law is in procedure of 14. Nine. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on constitutional basis and principles, which is positive. And also, the Directorate for European Integration has delivered its opinion on this bill. So, I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29803	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29804	Mr. Križanović. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I assume that you have had the opportunity and time to look at this bill and I will not, in that sense, take away much of your time, but I have thought... to state a few reasons for adopting this law, about the needs of passing this law and some of the fundamental principles on which this law rests. 34 First of all, the need to pass this law is double. One stems from our situation in BiH and another is the need for BiH's obligations, as signatories to international conventions and charters, other agreements, to bring its legislation into line in this area. First of all, I would like to note that, according to some analyses and data from NGOs in BiH, it is said that at least a billion KM each year in BiH ends up outside legal financial flows. I wouldn't want to explain this any further. We are aware that we have this problem, that corruption and organised crime is one evil for BiH and that as a responsible society must oppose this. On the other hand, I will only mention the Council of Europe Charter since the '90s. In fact, the Convention on Money Laundering, Searching, Pedication and Confiscation of Assets acquired through Crime, in which members of signatories undertake to make their legislation possible and secure, both in legitimacy and in strengthening institutions, that illegally acquired assets must be seized, in the shortest possible, paraphrasing that I do not quote here. Of course, as Parliament, we also ratified the UN Convention against Corruption three years ago, which also requires freezing, confiscation and confiscation of illegally acquired assets. I would like to be honest here to say that we, as a SDP, have been imputed to insisting on the adoption of this law as some kind of political promotion. But here, I'd like to remind you that we're 10. Six. ...at the meeting of this house discussed, say, the BiH Prosecutor's Office's report for the past year. On that occasion, it was found that BiH is missing and legitimate and, I say, mechanisms in an effective fight against organised crime. You remember that the SDP proposal then adopted the conclusion of this home "that within 90 days the Council of Ministers comes out with a bill of law". We were pleased with that, because we were convinced that BiH's goal was to reach such a law, not to promote it as SDP. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers has done nothing but in these six or seven years so far on this matter. And this is why we're reporting for the fifth time with this proposal. Let me just say a few more words about some of the basic principles on which this law is based. So, first of all, the Agency is an independent body that is responsible only for the BiH Parliament. It is organized so that there are three departments in its composition, one of which is the Research and Documentation Department, the second is the Department for the Insurance of Forced Disposal of Assets and, third, the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets. The Agency is therefore responsible for investigating, documenting and ensuring the measures... confiscation of illegally acquired assets and the management of these assets for all criminal offences which... are contained in the BiH Criminal Law in Chapters VII, VIII. and IX. So it's about human trafficking, unauthorized arms trafficking and military equipment, unauthorized drug trafficking, money laundering, taxes and evasion, tax evasion, illicit trade, etc. and receiving gifts, so this IX. a head relating to corrupt activity. I would like to emphasise once again that the overall procedure for the functioning of this agency and its co-operation with the judicial and other bodies in BiH is fully based on the existing legal system and is fully embedded in this system. The basic principle of this agency's work is that illegally acquired assets must be seized. We are convinced by this that we would make a significant contribution and... to the prevention of organised crime and corruption that are mostly basic, to say, elements for obtaining illegally acquired property. In particular, 35 other principles that the Agency will always react to places where there is an obvious disproportionate proportion of existing assets and legal sources of the owner of that property. Here, Mr. Chairman, I don't want to take any more of your time and I'm staying, here we are, as a club, available for any clarifications or repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29806	Thank you. The second vice-president, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29807	It was very useful to hear these additional arguments from Mr. Križanović. When it comes to this law in the first reading, the BiH Party will most likely support it and open the possibility of discussing it and the interventions. However, the very beginning should bear in mind the following fact, when it comes to harmonisation, i.e., to say, the harmonisation of the laws governing this area. So it should be reminded that we have today on the agenda and this Anti-Corruption Agency and that it may happen, I sincerely hope that this law will be passed, and if you look at and level the activities of this agency and this one, which is proposed here in this law, there are activities that are identical, therefore, that there will be no duplication. Also, Criminal Law, which, however, did not pass but, as we have knowledge, it will again be in the procedure, treated in some way, or in one concrete way, the possibility of confiscation of illegally acquired property. I have reported the most and the proposal of this assessment, which Mr Križanović said, that often these SDP initiatives are seen as political marketing, promotion, etc., and also because of the finding in the explanation where, in my opinion, nothing is caused and I see no reason why it was so put there that the ruling structure is unprepared, unprepared, says - the unwillingness of the ruling structure to catch up with these problems. So, it's not about unpreparedness, I'm talking about now on behalf of the BiH Party, to catch up with these problems, it's about corruption and organised crime, but it's just about the dilemma that the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Justice and the BiH Justice Department highlighted, I'm primarily thinking about the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, in some discussions, public appearances, etc. who claimed that the existing BiH legal system has all the possibilities. But at the same time, exactly what Mr. Križanović was talking about, and I once asked a parliamentary question and asked for information about how much it was taken away, that it was really minor and, therefore, almost not worth it. The question is, then, whether or not this possibility is used at all, which the judicial authorities claim exists in the existing judicial system. Of course, there is this second question of how to manage the seized property, which is completely, in my opinion, unresolved. That's what I think Mr. Šefik Džaferović was talking about on the Constitutional Commission. So this finding that there's an unpreparedness isn't right and we find it completely unnecessary. The BiH party is absolutely ready, along with the others, to catch up with these problems. We were even ready to respond to those bombing calls from the SDP to twist pockets, etc., to see what anyone has, etc., but this activity was suddenly and suddenly 36 shut down. But here, anyway, we'll mostly support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29808	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29809	I'm sorry, Chairman. Of course, I have no intention of meddling in your business but first I want to say that I absolutely support the measures..., all the measures that will allow or help to be corrupt in this society, so I can't say eradicated, but in any case decrease. In this regard, it is worth the attention of the SDP counterparts to propose one of these laws. I also told this commission that according to previous laws, this law has made one progress. Namely, he defined in Article 12... that there were some actions, and there were one number of objections, so they happen, they happen, so with the previous decision of the competent court. And that is what is a significant shift in solving one of the objections that were made to this law. There remains one serious dilemma here for this law to enter deeply into the jurisdiction of the prosecution in certain segments. And that is what this law failed to resolve, that is, this text or the new text of the law failed to resolve. In fact, the fact is that here this law says it's 'control and security of forced confiscation of property and management'... But it is also a fact that Article 5 defines that there is a research and documentation department here that, beware in one position says 'gathers from all relevant authorities of the administration and the judiciary information about the property of the person suspected of committing crimes. This job is also done by the D.A.'s office. And this job is a previous job for this agency to start working. So, in order for this agency to work at all, the prosecution has to finish its work, the court has to finish its work, and then this agency comes on stage. That, in my opinion, is the key problem of this law. Namely, that is the case, here is the article 12, and I will read a part of the text that says'save or can store books and records' or other, be careful, 'the Agency's employees have the authority to enter every property and room where they are kept or can store books or records and other objects that can be used to prove property for persons under whom criminal proceedings have been initiated for the acts of Article 3 of this Law.' Please, this jurisdiction has a prosecutor's office. I don't see why these agency workers would need to take cases that prove this when the D.A. does it. And the prosecution will enter these premises, it's authorized, the exemption of these books and cases, it will initiate a criminal trial, the court will carry out the case, prove the accuracy of the allegations, and then this agency will come into effect. Unfortunately, this law is not so designed, and that is the key reason why I cannot support this law. It would be good if the motionor pulled this law out of the process and tried to remove this flaw. By removing this deficiency, we would... remove the suspicions, or my previously expressed suspicions, that we would create new people in leather coats and leather boots that would do a job that was once done in the 1950s, in this country. I hope that my colleagues from SDP 37 and, no, I hope not, but I'm sure they have no intention, but with this department, they leave room for their sincere intention to turn into something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29810	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Matić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29811	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests, it is no doubt that there is a need and a reasonable reason to pass one of these laws. The club I belong to, in some earlier attempts to pass a law like this, was reserved for several reasons. One of the main ones was just a moment ago, Col. Novaković cited the previous text of the law that the SDP Club has proposed to us here, as regards Article 12. In earlier texts, the Agency could, without prior authority of the court, do as stated. Here today, in this text, it has been complemented that it is with the previous decision of the competent court, and this is a very significant change compared to the previous text. Other reasons for our reserves earlier are precisely doubts, which were raised here by counterpart Belkić and counterpart Novaković, believing that through the establishment of one such agency there may be a overlap and a match between the agency's jurisdiction with the judiciary, with the prosecution, with SIPA, and there is probably still a danger in certain articles and in certain solutions to this text, which Mr Novaković spoke of earlier, but since, if we adopt the law in the first reading, there is a change phase, it is possible to come through amendments to clarifications and a more precise provision that these are the competences of this agency, so that there is no really a conflict of jurisdiction and coincidence with another institution. Earlier assurances have contributed to the fact that there are... legal assumptions, that there are institutional assumptions that against such criminal acts can be successfully handled without the establishment of agencies. But according to all the prosecution reports in recent years and according to all the measurements, BiH remains very high on a scale of corrupt countries in the world. And it is obvious that these legal assumptions and existing institutions have not produced a proper result, and this time, the HDZ BiH Club will support this law in its first reading, with the possibility that in the second phase, we will invest certain amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29812	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29813	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, it would be best if the laws of this kind, therefore very important laws, were not proposed by the political 38 parties in Parliament, but came from the Council of Ministers, not even by us fellow Members of Parliament. But it's also a fact that we've been waiting a long time for the Council of Ministers at least to deliver something on this subject. We've never had a chance to see it in Parliament before, and what we can do about it, right? It would also be good if one law, such as it is, avoided unnecessary qualifications in the reasons, pointed out by Mr Belkić, the type of unpreparedness of the ruling coalition or parliamentary majority, because on the one hand it can provoke, and on the other hand it is not true, is it? I voted in favour of this law on the Constitutional Commission, and I am part of that parliamentary majority and today the political party that I belong to will support this law in the first reading. So, but here's what it says in the explanation and what we can do about it, right? Despite all this, if we are interested in the essence, then we must say that this law needs BiH and I have dealt with, among other things, legal analyses or criminal aspects of this problem. The most important thing for me in this law, and otherwise in the laws of this kind, is the principle that no one can retain the unlawfully acquired property benefit, and we all say that here in Parliament. And secondly, that the decision on this is ultimately brought by the court. This is a matter of jurisdiction and these are, for me, two key things that satisfy this law and that's something that gave me the opportunity to go further into the analysis of this law. And further analysis suggests that BiH has defined itself, at least according to the proposal to amend and supplement BiH's Criminal Law, which is also trends in the modern world, that in the event of a reasonable doubt or in the case of the existence of a standard called beyond any reasonable doubt, as it is said today in world and BiH courts, it is therefore well established that someone has acquired an illegal property benefit or illegal property, a reverse burden of proof, as the modern world does not seem able to fight these phenomena by applying standards that have so far been valid in the world. So almost all the countries of the world, the democratically developed countries of the world, are in this area instead of standards: I have to prove to you and legally confirm that you've gotten it and so on, so I'm going to subtract, resort to the standard: there is beyond any reasonable doubt or there is a reasonable doubt that you've acquired it in an illegal way, and you've gained... the benefit, I'm going to temporarily take it away and manage it, and you can prove that it's your property. It's a standard that tends to today's modern world, and it contains this law and that's the essence. When it comes to harmonisation with our legal system, the Criminal Law of BiH has laid down, or a proposal for amendments and additions to be found here in Parliament again – it has therefore fallen into the House of Peoples, as we know, is it, unfortunately, the mechanism under which so-called. an extended confiscation of property benefit and provides for this reverse proof mechanism. But it's just a principled and principled norm. When adopted, the Code of Criminal Procedure will have to be completed and such a law will have to be passed in order to make it possible to implement it. The Council of Ministers, as far as I have information, is working, among other things, on this law, but I don't think we can wait any longer and that we should start making this law the law that BiH needs and that there is no longer any basis for any waiting. Finally, when it comes to existing legislation and confiscation of property benefits, there is also a need for an existing system for such a law, because today in BiH, a completely unregulated area of protection has been taken away even if there is little that is being taken away from the property benefit that is unlawfully acquired -- there is no law, there is no institution. We had a Security Conference here last year where all commissioners, all police officials in BiH participated. And you know what the problem is? In BiH, 39 unsettled, for example. I don't know what happens to them. So society has to react that way. The police are asking what they're gonna do with the drugs they took. So, there's a need for that area to be settled. And that's why we're gonna support today, Club SDA, this law in first reading. I note that it contains in itself certain procedural deficiencies which will be, must be upgraded in the amendment phase. I'll also discuss it with the promoters, if they express their desire to talk, but the law meets, I said, two basic criteria that allowed me to enter further analysis. And to conclude, of course, like the entire SDA Club, that this should be supported although, I say, it's unnecessary to doubt that some things are built in that they can provoke, but here's what we can do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29814	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29815	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I was abstentioned to pass this law, trying to sort of pass the law, in order to go further, but I had great dilemmas about certain things, which my predecessor Živković had already made and Džaferović, which must and should be removed in the amendment procedure. But the biggest thing that's made me want to be abstention is actually the title of this law itself. Such an institution, meaning this agency should be passed, which will take care of the seized property, but in the title of the law stands the draft law on the Agency for the Control and Security of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property. If the word insurance is excluded, then it remains that the Agency for the control of the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property, by the promoter, leaves me with doubts that in fact who it will control, whether it will control the court, whether it will control the prosecution or whether it will exercise certain controls independently of these institutions. Thus, the very word in the title of the Control Agency raises doubts that this agency will do things that should not be done in the system as this or in the system in which things should be regulated by criminal acts. After the session was over, I discussed with a colleague, who is not from the SDP, and he presented the dilemma, and so before the vote, I would ask the motionary to consider whether there should be a control word in the title of this agency and who she will actually control. If that dimension were removed in the very title of the law, which, if we came, if we had a positive answer that it would not control either the prosecution or the court or the other, then in the title of the law, that word should not stand and, if that word were removed from the title of the law and removed those doubts from Article 12, this law would surely support and this law should also be created at the level of the state, because it would not harm, but would actually have its place in the work of taking away illegally acquired property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29816	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29817	Dear Chairman, well, anything to say in dissent with the very proposal of this law to come into parliamentary procedure, I immediately take the risk that tomorrow in the paper I will have countless labels: protecting my thieves, protecting RS, protecting crime in the RS, as was the first when he appeared. On the contrary, whenever I've discussed it and whenever it's a similar subject, I've always said, and I don't like terms of corruption, I like to say thief, is that every grandmother and nana understands, corruption is kind, something nice, what we fight. So I disagree with the way this law is passed at BiH level for several reasons. First, it's not possible to give this agency authority that doesn't even have a SIPA. I don't know what he'd call it, what he's got in drug medicine, here would be over the SIPA. Well, there's no term to go on. So, there was a SFOR clearance here, this agency has the right to break in where it wants to be SFOR, ask no one, ask no one, block the city, street, SFOR rifles, automatics, take what you need. And then on TV let the army carry some packages, no one knows what's in them, the people are even weirder, no one's in custody, no one's arrested! Now, that would look like this agency. He's got a right to break in somewhere. There's no right to break in anywhere. Where's the protection of human rights, where's the protection of privacy, where's the protection of anything?- I'm sorry. [[Common discussion]] So please. So that's my opinion, I'm saying now what this agency would be. I know how unauthorized it got and where it all came in, at least it's familiar to me, so let me not elaborate here, now I'm going back to some system earlier. Well, so that's not what's going on, so did we really derivate the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office? There's no conflict here, we'd come here in a conflict of interest, and tomorrow I see that distinguished prosecutor Barašin who says politics can't do anything to him. And thank Bog that's right. He says, "Here, these are the ones that came up in Parliament to come and stand up for me." That's not true. The BiH prosecutor's order is to carry out the SIPA, we have the organs, all the institutions, let's make them do something. What do I need this agency for? And what's most controversial, exactly like the law is in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, similar, so I always plead that we are counting in our circle in the municipality. So here's essentially, my fundamental observation, if we took something from someone, if it's going to get here to Budget BiH, whether it's going to be a warehouse in Sarajevo or if someone stole my municipality and the thieves I know about 41 where they are, I guess it's logical that they go back to that people and they didn't steal from the gornji Vakuf, they were stealing from the Palama, they were stealing from Lukavica -- to bring back the people they stole from in Lukavica, in Trebinj, I don't know where either. So where it was stolen from to return, and let's not just pile up at BiH level, so nobody's going to dispose, fill us with warehouses, no one's responding to what they're full of, I don't know why they're full, the time period's up, etc., failed everything, no one's doing any good. At least we gave some charity, etc., etc. And to put it short, I could talk about this for days, but there's no need, so I'm against passing a law like this. Now, again, that key line, I publicly take the risk of being like I'm defending someone, protecting; no, most of all I'm fighting the thief and the mob, and I'm going to fight the whole thing, not politically, but a lifetime, because really people who don't have days of work have stolen, and everything's been stolen. But I disagree what Transparency International will say tomorrow, repeat the same story: BiH in 112 places by corruption and all those potential investors who are in the mood to invest money here drive out, they personally, and have never proved any corruption. Then what will this agency be? Transpatency? Now, it can't and I won't give consent that this agency, whatever its name is in the title, will have the right to do this or that, to be a branch of Transparency that entertains us about the misery of its information, and all completely fake, incorrect, unverified and factoryed, just to cause political damage to a particular political furniture, foreigners, individuals, entities, etc. That's why this bill is this way that it came into parliamentary procedure, to this home, I don't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29819	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Probably an explanation of some questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29820	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29821	An explanation of some questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29822	So here, if I may?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29823	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29824	Thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29825	He can do it as a proposer and, here, explain it in front of the promoter and everything. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29826	I think it would be useful,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29827	Of course. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29828	: I think it would be useful at this stage to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29829	To remove the dilemmas, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29830	First of all, of course, I'm not gonna pollemize, I haven't answered the controversy, but I want to say one principle thing here. You see, there are colleagues who have certain prejudices about a certain matter and no matter what these written prejudices remain. Here some referred to Article 12, let me quote: 'The Agency's employees have the authority to enter with the previous decision of the competent court'... and this is what Mr. Slavko said. If they don't, we don't need this agency, if it's prevention, here's what we had before the Prevention Act, this is a serious agency that's going to do their job. How can he represent, as he is called, intervene with competent courts to prevent the freezing of property if he does not investigate, he must investigate. Secondly, no one shall say in that same article the position of '(2) of the procedure and the purpose of entering the business premises referred to in the position (1) of this member shall be determined by sublegal acts'. And the third, "entering the property, into the premises... is in full compliance with the BiH Criminal Procedure Act". I wanted to say with this brief quote again that this law is fully embedded in the existing BiH judicial system. Secondly, I want to say that I am very skeptical of the laws that come from individuals, our colleagues. And I totally understand that. Given the importance and sensitivity of this law, it was perfectly normal for us to have the Council of Ministers' testimony to this, the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of BiH, and, if public debate is to be held, there are sensitive matters. We, in our best faith and intent, have proposed this procedure, although tomorrow I wouldn't put my hand in it if it were the right one and that it might not hurt anyone. It's classified stuff. Here, I'm going to apologize, on behalf of the club, that perhaps, in an explanation, we have cited an irritable thing for the ruling parliamentary majority. But is there any basis for that? _________(?) There isn't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Six, seven years trying to do something. We've never done that and made the Council of Ministers come out with this which would make us happier, because I believe that people with higher capacities are there to arrange things that won't get in the way of some procedures. But here, we may have exaggerated in that formulation that the parliamentary majority is insensitive to this problem. So, 43 we are wherever there is a sensitive thing in two or three places, if you see, in this law, you stated that it will be fully and decadently worked out in a special sublegal act. As for the comparison of this law with the previous Corruption Prevention Act, they could, I say, be partially matched in that section of this asset confiscation agency: in a work that speaks about that Department of Research and Documentation. But at this stage, I don't think it's that important, by saying that this law deals with an effective mechanism, so the creation of a certain institution, the agencies that will have all of this information that is listed here, and in particular, I stress again, what the applicant's intensity was, that nothing, but nothing, happens without the court's decision. Here, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29832	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29833	I'm really uncomfortable replicating Mr. Križanović, whom I respect as all my colleagues. But here, to change my mind, I'm asking a hypothetical question: will it be the authority of this agency to break into the Federation government building, to kidnap her from you, the SDP, because you charge the rent of the Federation government and immediately put her at the disposal of the Federation government so that you don't charge rent or stamp from that day forward? Is there a right for this agency to go through the procedure (or when the law is passed) today, I repeat, enter into that building or the facilities of many others that you yourself have adopted, (and I have paid the membership fee of the Communist Union, I am not your member, so I want you to give me back a piece of my cake), will it be able to make all the buildings that you have declared to be legal followers take you away as soon as the law enters into force and make them available to the State? I'm changing my mind and I'm voting right now and that even greater powers are given to this agency, if that's possible in the way you imagined. I see you're not in that whole story, although I'm looking for another story to activate the law that we asked the Council of Ministers on the basis of this proposal. That, not just those assets that were taken, robbed, in any way alienated, to return to legal owners. You know who the titler of property was, it wasn't to grab a pillow and run, no one knows whose pillow it was, it's to know everything. So today we have agencies and institutions that are competent, the SIPA has powers, you can't say it doesn't. There is the BiH Prosecutor's Office in this area of authority, perhaps somewhere to step up where we may not have defined it, but to come in and keep piling up! Here's the key thing for me: let's just make agencies, confectionery associations, hairdressers, I don't know the waiter, let's just go to BiH level, so it'll be an effective state! On the contrary, we're just making this a completely inefficient state and we'll never be ready to deal with thieves and mobs.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29834	Replica, honourable MP Jozo Križanović. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29835	The chairman, so here's the short one, I don't know if Jovičić read this bill, but he didn't exclude anyone, no SDP, no individuals, no property from anyone. And secondly, I can only say that it will be a much more serious agency than my colleague Jovičić imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29836	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29837	I will refer to the presentation of the president of SDP's Club of Representatives, Mr Križanović, who has already presented the reasons and certain solutions in this law. It is clear, however, that there is a very clear and constitutional and legal basis why BiH should pass such a law. Not to mention all those conventions now, especially this UN convention ratified by the BiH state. It would certainly be a good reminder, when we are discussing this issue, that we also came up with the Opinion of the European Integration Directorate, which also states that by ratifying certain UN and Council conventions in Europe, BiH has taken the obligation to implement and harmonise legislation in this area, which, with the adoption of this law, would result in further harmonisation with international and European standards. It is also quite clear that in BiH we have very widespread crime and corruption and that so far we have not had effective measures to fight crime, and especially against crimes committed from the benefit of committing crimes. The perpetrators of these crimes rarely acquire enormous property, and on the other hand, these assets, after they have been punished, remain in their hands. It is evident that the adoption of such a law would certainly have a fatal effect on the perpetrators of these crimes. That is how many international experiences show it, especially in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Croatia, Serbia, Ireland, and a number of other European countries, the UK. Why not say that, for example, in Britain, one of these specialized agencies was formed in 2002, and already in 2003, it had, as far as I recall, about 800,000 pounds of income that were targeted for social purposes only, so of these works done out of kindness. This property, which was in Britain in 2003, doubled and directed to social and humanitarian purposes. We are talking today about the state of crime in BiH, that crime controls a pool of 1.5 billion marks in BiH, etc. to some other data, you shouldn't waste any more words, because these are known facts to all those who wanted to meet them. So this is six years and I think five times how SDP proposes this law. And today the question is whether or not this law needs to be done at the state level. I think this law certainly needs state-level, that's the need of BiH. And when fellow Jovičić discusses this, it is clear that his colleague Jovičić does not have the continuity of SNSD policy on this matter, but that he comes from the position of discontinuity, because SNSD, at the time of the opposition, there are also stenograms about it, advocated the adoption of this law right at the state level. That, therefore, can be very simple to check here in stenograms and through other written evidence. 45 I don’t think it is good for us to lynch individual NGOs who are doing their part of the work as NGOs do in other developed countries in this debate. It is necessary to simply face facts and try to find the most effective measures in the fight against crime and corruption. There have also been debaters today who have talked about it and denied the fact that there is no political will by those who rule today BiH to fight crime. It's the fact that there is no political will. And that this is the fact, for the first time today, in writing, I also received confirmation from the Council of Ministers for that finding. In fact, at this point where we talked about the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption, those who carefully read the law could, in the light of the law, find a literal position of the Council of Ministers, which says there is no political will to fight corruption. Therefore, this is no longer the position of the SDP, but for the first time the Council of Ministers publicly acknowledges that it is. So it would certainly be good for us to take the first step today and adopt this law, possibly by amendment, to do this text in order to be as high as possible before the final adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29838	Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29839	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it as soon as I can. So, this law bears the title of the Bill on the Control Agency, under one, and then, and the provision of forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal act and the management of the seized property. Therefore, the Agency which deals with these activities is subject to the control of forced confiscation and management of seized assets. However, Article 4 provides, it says, 'In order to confiscate the property illegally acquired by criminal acts referred to in Article 3 of this Act, the Agency for the Violation of property acquired by criminal property and the management of the seized property shall be formed.' Further members also discuss these issues, in a certain way, of confiscation, forced confiscation of property and management of the property. So, at that stage, if this law is passed that I generally support, we should also develop these issues of control... property acquired by criminal acts. And for these reasons, I propose to the Proposer that these issues be even more thoroughly worked out, all these issues of the control of forced confiscation and the management of property acquired by criminal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29840	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29841	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, allow me to give my opinion very briefly when it comes to this bill. The ideas and initiatives on the confiscation of illegally acquired assets are relatively long present, we are witnesses, and there have been several attempts to regulate the 46 issue systemically in this home and I am a witness both in the Federation Parliament and so on. The attempts of the system arrangement of illegally acquired assets have been regularly destroyed, certainly, in part because of the unpreparedness of those who were in power to settle this issue, and in part because the solutions offered in these proposals were not legally and technically rational, enforceable and sustainable. With this proposal, the Agency largely assumes the competences of courts and other institutions, which is really not acceptable to me and is not rational at this time. In my view, it was logical to adopt, instead of this law, the Law on the Abduction of illegally acquired property, I remember that such a proposal was in circulation, but there was no passing without the Agency being a technical or operational body for the execution of judgments on this matter and, of course, for the technical preservation and confiscation of property temporarily or finally taken away by judgments of the courts. So I don't have any reservations about whether it is necessary to systematically and quickly regulate the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, but I think that the regulation of this issue, as proposed by this law, is not appropriate to the importance and seriousness of this problem. If by supporting this law in my first reading, I contribute to the question of taking away illegally acquired assets quickly and seriously, I will support this law today to finally put pressure on those who do so to make it a system office. Personally, I think the issue of seizing and keeping illegally acquired property is far more serious and complex than how this law treats it. I also don't think that the essence of this law can be better improved even in this amendment phase. And as a solution, it is only rational to carry out adequate amendments to the Criminal Law and to pass a law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property. So I will support this law in first reading as an expression of appeal that the issue of illegally acquired assets is quickly, seriously and responsibly arranged to contribute to the overall fight against crime and corruption and, of course, sanction those who have acquired both wealth and power in a criminal way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29842	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29843	Thank you. I'm not going to be discussing this much longer since I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, so I don't think I have much right to talk here. But here, if we look at this report from the Constitutional Commission, we'll see that there were four "for", three "restricted", so here, let's say, that it was hard to break this law in principle, and when we talked about it, I didn't see that there was a big opposition to this kind of law. So, apart from one discussion here, I think today all the colleagues who discussed about the discussions went in the sense that this law should be passed, but one part, let me say, is a matter of law, that's the one concerning investigative actions. 47 And I think the essence of it was said by counterpart Belkić in his discussion, which was somewhere at the beginning. I'm afraid that because we have the procedure that we have, we could be in a position to lose this law, and I really wouldn't want to. Here, I personally support the law and I supported it on the Constitutional Commission, but I have information, and someone has already said that the Council of Ministers is doing similar legislation. I think the point here is that we want the law and that we have an obligation, in some way, to pass that law, if we want to go to the EU, but that this law must be harmonised with Criminal Law, with the Criminal Procedure Act and with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. And I think... we're all thinking that way. Now the question is, and I think that's the point, how do I say, to get out of this? According to what I heard, the Council of Ministers should have its own law very soon. If we adopt this one, then there's no point in them sending their own. And that might be why it would be a good solution for us to agree to extend this amendment phase a little bit to see if the Council of Ministers bill will arrive, which I suppose would be, whether, on the trail of this, harmonised with the remaining three laws. And then, in that case, I think that even colleagues from the SDP, as promoters, would have the understanding to come up with one solution that would be acceptable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29844	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29845	You can do what you can't, Mr. Živković. Who came to us?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29846	Thank you. Here, I want to give one suggestion, I'm not going to tell my fellow critics to my fellow Socialist internationals. If you want some legal project to pass, you can't hack, challenge people here, tell them about consistency, but try to convince them that this law is good and that they've changed their minds. I will remind you in the past term that we supported the opinion, thinking that the law will apply to those treated with the Law on the Court and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, not to everyone in BiH, as you provided for by Article 3 and Article 1 of this Law. In the meantime, if the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, I say, in a way that we don't approve of it, I mean, in particular, Article 13. The BiH court, where, according to us, they have been wrongly placed and recommenced in the entire BiH territory, and then the Constitutional Court approved it. So many things have changed since the day we advocated that the law applies only to those concerning the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And, accordingly, we proposed a similar law in the RS. I call on you to try to move the point of your interest a little lower, at least to the Federation of BiH, and such a law to try to pass there, because I believe as we are none, let me say, a political factor at that level and we cannot bother you to pass such a law, as you, as you are no political factor in the RS, cannot interfere with us to pass such a law. Therefore, we need to talk about these fears when you want to offer us a legal project and convince us that we do not need to be afraid of one-party law the way you proposed it and you think you're doing it. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29847	There are no reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29848	I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission, Proposer: SNSD MEP Club, Law No 01-02-4-35/09, of 10. 4. 2009 At the 51st session of the House, a request for a brief procedure was adopted. The Commission responsible for finance and the budget did not support the principles of the law. At the 60th session of the House, the Commission's opinion was not accepted and the law was laid down to this Commission. ... The Commission did not support the principles again. We got a 29th opinion. Nine. In 2009. Today, we are again pleading on the Commission's opinion, so if we adopt the law falls, and if we do not pass it, the law returns to the Commission to reconsider and deliver a new opinion, possibly new guidelines to the House. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29852	I really have no other way, so I should try to ask a question and ask someone from the Joint Committee to explain to us what the shortcomings were, or the advantages of this Rules of Procedure of the Board of Appeal compared to... the Independent Committee. That people tell us what the problems were, because you see what we have today. Today we have a proposal for a Rules of Procedure which has received a positive opinion from the Board of Appeal, and the Independent Committee, which is important to us for the liberalisation of the visa regime, which calls for a competition for the Director, etc., has not received a pass. Wasn't it possible with this committee during the day or two to bring this into line today that we have this Rules of Procedure. And I would really ask someone, if there was no president or deputy, to tell us a little bit about these two Rules of Procedures, which is the benefits of this Board of Appeal, which was the problem of that Independent Committee. We, though, the chairman said, left an opportunity to try to fix it in the next seven days, etc., but I'd like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29853	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29854	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is therefore the situation discussed by the esteemed deputy chairman, Mr. Belkić. Today we have the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Appeal but we do not have this Rules of Procedure of the Independent Committee. We had it at a session on Monday here, right, we were considering both the Rules of Procedure, and the one you got today on the agenda, which we actually got, really contains nothing controversial. Its provisions are perfectly clear, it is fully based on the laws adopted and the Defence and Security Commission had no objections to it. It's written in a language that corresponds to this matter, which could not be said for the one you're interested in, Mr. Belkić, and all of us, which is this Independent Committee. There have been a lot of objections to this Regulation, starting with the technical remarks that we might be able to correct immediately at the Commission's session, but several provisions have been introduced that are not contained in the law itself, which would have had a problematic or different relationship within the Commission itself. And in order not to get into that position, we decided then to deliver a full 50 stenogram with debate to those who prepared this material to consider it and to come back to us in seven days at the Commission's session, so that at the next session of the House we could have it. If you are particularly interested in what it is, things concern the very constitution of this committee, then they concern the way decisions are made and some phases in making decisions that are not within the law. Now, look, it's possible to do it the way these people did it. What we get in the Commission, or here in Parliament, from those committees chosen, is called, in fact, a recommendation. By law, it is a recommendation, and it is Parliament that brings, so we do not give consent, we bring these Rules of Procedures. Now, if we're gonna be the authors, not the ones who give consent to something someone else adopted, then we want it to be the way it's supposed to be, and it wasn't possible that day. First, that committee was not complete there, it was just his president, and the other thing, there were some, that I don't agree with you now, here is, I mean, there's no one there, is there anyone from the Defence Commission who was at the session of this committee, I don't see anyone who was, is there, is there, at least 10 remarks of that kind plus a few -- is not an Okolić here – four-five technical remarks that Mr. Okolić made in the text itself for a better understanding of the text. When we get that, I said last time on this committee: this is a rush, let's see right now to fix the amendments; they will send us amendments to our remarks, we will sit down afterwards, we will install our amendments and deliver here to Parliament. No, believe me, it couldn't have been different. This was not prepared the way this Rules of Procedure was prepared. This Rules of Procedure have no objections. Niko one had any on the Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29855	Thank you. Dear MP Momčilo Novaković reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29856	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have a reserve here according to one item of Article 11. I would like to take this seriously, given that this seems to be a real problem for the realisation of the goal that we achieve by forming this committee, or which we intend to achieve by forming this committee. For example, in Article 11(2) sub-e), so when we talk about the elements that must contain the complaint, there is the relevant evidence, in brackets, certified photocopies of the documents that are being attached. Look, this may be a problem, because complaints about police officers will probably be different natures, and sometimes there may be no witnesses, or there are documents in this way as imagined here, means the relationship of a police officer to a person who complained. I think that the credibility of this committee and the character of the appeal is protected by the other elements standing here, so the name and last name of the one who submits the complaint, his signature, the contact details and everything else, which makes it impossible for unserious complaints to come to the Committee's session. I am saying this because in the position (3) of the same member it is said that 'the Committee has the right to consider complaints which do not contain the elements of the position (2)'. Look, he's right, I'd give him an obligation to consider 51 of those who don't. So everything else has a right, but those complaints that don't have a proper copy of the document, too, are required to consider. Because, I'm saying, it's not possible in all cases, which can occur when it comes to complaints about police officers' behaviour, to provide the proper evidence, and here it's as done as if it had to, because it's an important element, one of the elements that you have to have, and the Committee can say: you don't and we don't decide. He may say, "You do not have any, but we decide." Look, I think that factor should be pulled out of everything else, and of course it can be decided this way. I don't know what the procedure is now, how we can get there, whether I should make some amendment now that would change the text or if I was late for any amendment, I don't understand. So we should see what that means or we're adopting a first phase today and later on, we're going to be able to act on the amendments. It seems to me that this 2.e. means if it stays here, and I have no objection, that it should then be in the position (3) to say: The Committee shall also have the right to consider complaints which do not contain the elements set out in Article (2), and shall be required to consider complaints which do not contain the elements set out in Article 2e. So he's necessarily considering them, no matter what they don't contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29857	Thank you. Since this is the new law on independent supervisory bodies and this is the first time we've worked, there's obviously going to be some problems in the work until we get to a quality solution. And we here, I would ask you to suggest a conclusion with which we will go as a House of Representatives to talk to the House of Peoples, because this is about a Joint Commission where we need to have harmonised views on how to overcome this part: whether the amendment on the Commission itself works, and then whether the homes adopt, or otherwise. So I suggest you form a conclusion on this. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović has a need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29858	Well, I just wanted to, Mr. Chairman, try to explain how I understood or how I understood what Mr. Novaković was talking about when I was reading this Rules of Procedure. I'm not the author of this, but I don't think there's a problem of the kind pointed out by Mr. Novaković. So, he was reading this text seeing what he saw, but here I am going to try to help. So it is perfectly normal that the citizens' complaint should contain both evidence and Mr. Novaković has no objection that the complaint contains evidence. The complaint can contain evidence, and it doesn't have to. There's evidence or no evidence, and that's why it's written down that we're going to consider the one that doesn't have those elements. So, it's left flexible, because you're looking at the essence, whether a police officer has made a problem. But if there's evidence in writing, then it's said here, so I'm interpreting it, because there may be other evidence, the testimony of this witness, the testimony of that witness, because it's written here, the text is written under point e) of the relevant evidence. And now a bracket has been placed and the text of the certified photocopies of the documents to be attached has been written. I interpret this, therefore, if there are documents, then the rule of the Administrative Procedure Act is generally accepted, and by the Code of Criminal Procedure, and by the Law of Prosecution, so by all laws governing the procedure, that this photocopy must be certified. If she has it, she has 52 to be certified; if she doesn't have it, then that's no reason not to consider this valid. And I, in that context, interpret this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29859	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29860	I, you see, I ask you to try and interpret you this way, says: the content of the citizens' complaint for the conduct of police officers, because in the procedure of the provision of the position (3) does not just say that the Committee has the right to consider complaints which do not contain the elements of the position (2) of this member. She talks a lot more. It speaks of the fact that the right of the authority, therefore to this authority, to the Board of Appeals, is denied to reject this unless there are any of these worse elements, but that it must consider them. And when these provisions are looked at individually and, as the lawyers say, and in their mutual relationship, it can be concluded and concluded as it is. This must be prescribed from some of the procedures that are listed somewhere and I don't see anything wrong here. I've been on the team for the first time since you've discussed it, I haven't really, but I've tried to interpret them, so I'm going through this. An example works, a police officer oversteps his official authority. The man complains. If there's a medical belief and an original, then it's not a problem, but if there's a photocopy of the doctor's belief, then the man is asked to have a stamp of the certificate where it needs to be. Sometimes there's no doctor's conviction, and there's an excess, but there are witnesses. Then there'll be witnesses here you and you, but there's no medical conviction, no confirmation, no photocopy, no obligation then there's a photocopy. And then, in the end, even if a man doesn't state any evidence, and he complains, the Committee has to consider this, this is an obligation for him to expositio. So he is deprived of the right that courts have that when something is not delivered in the documentation he is subject to the so-called regime. an emergency rejection, an ad limina, as it is said, here the organ is deprived of that right and is ordered to act as if it exists. So, the simple provision pursues the very essence, as well as the law pursues this essence, and that is. I ask you to try to interpret it and, then, if you interpret it like that, there will be no problem. That's it, thank you. I mean, it would be a shame to put this back on this committee now to react, to act, not to be here, I don't know if there are any people who wrote this, who did this to say, I don't see them. You do. Here, you can tell if it's that, or if it's something else, this is how I interpret it. That's why I didn't comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29861	I'm thanking you. I didn't mean to interrupt the honourable MP, but I want to inform everyone. According to the Code of Conduct, it is not rude to turn to the microphone even though you want to address one of the MPs, and we are having a major problem in technical monitoring this session in terms of audiogram management, stenogram making and transcripts. So I'd like to ask you, when you're talking about turning into a microphone so we can meet the technical possibilities for the session. 53 Replica, honourable MP Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29862	Well, I, I just took advantage of the replica to say that I'm not the problem, so here, if the other colleagues feel that this solution has been disabled what I'm talking about, here I accept that I'm looking at it that way. I just wanted to prevent a possible problem in practice, but if everyone else appreciates that this is not a problem in practice and that all of this is defined in the right way, I withdraw that proposal, that is, that comment. Here, I'm not going to invest anything, I don't want to complicate any adoption of this rule and, so consider me the proposal I was talking about to withdraw. So, I'm not going to propose any changes, but I'd really like it if there was one of the promoters to explain what Mr. Džaferović was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29863	Thank you. Since no one is answering for the discussion, I ask Dom – we have five more points of the agenda and the obligation to meet the Constitutional Commission in the break – do you agree to take a break now and at 14.30 to start working because it is now 13.00? It'll take an hour and a half for lunch and a meeting of the Constitutional Commission. At 2.30 p.m., we'll get back to work. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, please take your seats. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. The discussion on the material "Station, and measures to improve the situation of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and fired from work from 1991 to 1995" – the adopted Momčilo Novaković's initiative from the 53rd session of the House, held 13. 5. 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are part of the debate on this end when I was explaining this initiative, so I will only limit myself to a few aspects of this initiative. First of all, I would like to thank the colleagues who supported this initiative and colleagues in the Joint Commission who supported this initiative with the conclusions that the chairman read, which in principle, means, in my opinion, solve, however, only a small part of the problems created as a consequence of the dismissal of these workers from work in Croatia. I am sorry that there is no one at this session today, or there is no one in front of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, since we have received this information that is also very important, today which we have received on the table here, and which, for its part, completes all this image, means activities that only the ministry does by fulfilling the plan and the work programme adopted by the Council of Ministers a while ago. I, not to repeat the reasons why I launched this initiative, they are known to all MPs, I will ask the President of the Commission, Mr Ahmetović, to explain or explain the Commission's relationship with this issue and these conclusions. And I suggest that, with these conclusions that we have here, we accept this information that we received today. So the information on the realization of the conclusions of the House of Representatives, because, I don't know how many colleagues have been able to read it, is substantially completeing the conclusions made by the Commission and is operationally helping to solve all these problems. So, to conclude, I propose that the House accept its conclusions with, of course, this amendment, which the chairman spoke of, which is necessary in order to fully clarify that first conclusion and accept the Information on the realization of the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary House. Here I did not welcome representatives of two associations, one from the RS, one from the Federation, who are gathering the largest number of these 13,000, over 13,000 registered cases, and there are probably more, according to their data and more, but not all registered, registered, etc.. 55 Of course, I would like to welcome them, and I suppose they will get the opportunity to maybe turn to Parliament for a little bit to apostrophe and maybe explain more than I did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29867	Thank you. I want to say that at the beginning of the session, I welcomed the representatives of the association to all of you. On the other hand, it is our custom here that one who wants a word should provide a name and a last name in writing and that he wants a word, and then I would give the House a statement on whether to allow it and how long time to report. So I point them out in a way that can be done. Next to the discussion is Remzija Kadrić's honourable MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29868	I thank you, Chairman. So, again, I support this initiative of MP Novaković on these issues and the conclusions proposed by the Commission for Human Rights and Refugees. As part of this, I would only suggest one conclusion, which would read as follows: 'The Council of Ministers is obliged to adopt an extended plan of measures to address the problems of BiH citizens who were employed in the premises of the former Yugoslavia and fired from work from 1991 to 1995'. So, that the Council of Ministers shows that, within all these activities, one extended activity plan may be made to include all citizens who, for various reasons, have lost their jobs in this period of time, that in such a way we have... one comprehensive approach to solving these problems. I think this conclusion should be accepted, that Dom should support this proposal of my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29869	Thank you. The chairman of the Commission answered the word, I think it is good to hear, honourable MP Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29870	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this problem has been going on for a long time. And I've had a chance to meet one of the associations, maybe two years ago about. And with regard to these initiatives, which were earlier, the Commission took some views and, behold, later came this initiative of colleagues, a fully justified initiative of counterpart Novaković, and now we have a more complete one, I would say, composition, so that we have two associations, from the RS and the Federation. And on that basis, the Commission, on the basis of this initiative, was in session. 56 I accept that we can modify this first conclusion and when it comes to this deadline that was until 12.10, it went to the Council of Ministers, and on the basis of that deadline, the Council of Ministers today shared this information on the tables that we received. So I fully agree that these conclusions proposed by the Council of Ministers... or we propose in the form of the conclusions of this House. If there are any questions that may be asked, then what is the responsibility of this commission, possibly, to which I can personally answer, so I am here today. I think that, in the end, all these activities led by the Commission and possibly by the Council of Ministers must result in one agreement that BiH needs to sign with the Republic of Croatia, where it will best address these problems that these fired workers have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29871	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29872	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, this is a burning problem in BiH, the problem of workers who worked in a huge number in the Republic of Croatia before the start of the war on these grounds. It is estimated somewhere that there were over 300,000 people who worked in the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia. They were mostly fired in the '91-'95 period. But after the Dayton Agreement, the Croatian government made a memo and asked many to return to their jobs formally-legally, where... certain authorities, believing that they were military bonds, did not allow these people to return to work and thereby formally helped Croatia to do what it does by these workers: it does not give them earned pensions, it does not give them certain jobs, it does not give them certain... etc. Nevertheless, there are a number of people left who can't solve this problem today, and we all owe it to these people to help solve these problems. I'll give you some examples. Between Croatia and BiH, there is a final agreement that a disability-retirement insurance commission in Sarajevo can review and retire those workers. And what's going on? They get a pension in BiH after working for three or four or ten years and 30 years in Croatia; then they get that minimum part of the pension in five years which... are in BiH, and from Croatia they get a refusal from the commission. So it's not some institution that works commission, it's a consultant, health advisers of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. They are left with the only possible moment, these people, to lead the dispute before the Constitutional Court, or before the Supreme Court, or some other court in Croatia. We usually have a lot of problems unresolved with Croatia. I'm not saying we don't have other neighbors, but other species. And in part, we are holding back some problems. So, we need to separate the problem of BiH citizens living in BiH, living in BiH and working in Croatia, from the citizens who were also 57 people who were unhappy, in some way forced, forced or left Croatia by their own will. These two problems must be resolved separately, otherwise this problem will never be solved. We all need to know that. Because those who support the need to solve this together, you live in an illusion and know that these two problems cannot be solved in this way. All these measures proposed by the Commission, and additional measures, and by colleagues who spoke before me, I support, but here I particularly draw attention to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which must be much more active to get certain things off the dead end. And I also suggest that we, as MPs, go to the talks or some initiatives with the parliaments of the Republic of Croatia to sort this out in a certain way. I think that without the participation of the international community, unfortunately, without the participation of the international community, so, if the Court of Justice in Strasbourg needs to, this problem will not be fully resolved, but there is a way and the possibility that we can use all possible measures to at least try to solve this problem. For a long time, there was a problem with health insurance with people who even had pensions, who had insurance in Croatia without being able to exercise their rights in BiH for health care. That's a thank Bog we're done with now. With Slovenia a little later, but that's settled, too. So, the biggest problem remains, and that's the problem of workers who are neither there nor here. Workers who are exhausted, who are actually disabled workers, who have spent their whole lives or at least nine tenths of their working life in Croatia and cannot get any rights, because they are challenged in every way possible. They also dispute in a way, meaning when they get a pension, when they declare it a disabled full category I, a solution is found from certain services in Croatia not to implement this solution, but to dissipate it in some way and to challenge it in some way. It's a strange thing, for example. if you as a doctor participate in solving the disability solution for workers who have spent in Germany, and there is no problem. There is no problem, because the German government, German insurance companies, the German cash register or, I don't know what it's called, all the findings that were extracted in BiH confirm and, in certain cases, ask and check, but if doctors of the same rank are the same qualifications, they accept these finds. It doesn't happen in Croatia. They simply seek that unqualified doctors, unskilled doctors, because not one doctor of medical work can refute the findings of a cardiologist who has been performed in every way, even the coronaryography, means adequate methods and that the patient can continue to work. And that happens, that happens a lot. That is why I believe that we here must put all our support and start using all our levers, because there are meetings between Croatian MPs and BiH MPs, there are meetings with certain ministries, including with the presidency, I know, with the government, etc. and this problem should always be placed on the wallpaper. And that is why I strongly support this initiative, but in order for it to be not only an initiative I personally think and I am a skeptic that we will be able to solve in one unique way and people who are born from BiH and worked and born from Croatia, these two problems must be resolved separately in order to satisfy themselves or, in some ways, to solve the problem of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29873	Discussion, honourable Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29874	I thank you, Chairman. Here, we got the materials, so the plan of measures that was by the Council of Ministers and today here's the table we got the opinion of our commission and today we've also got one document from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. First of all, I think that, if we want to solve this problem,... today there is no good will shown by the Council of Ministers to solve this problem. We have received only an analysis of the legal status of this document, which is the possibility of reaching possible solutions by the Ministry of Human Rights and we have received one document from the Ministry of Civil Affairs in that, too, can be said, one letter. The basic document we don't have is the document and the opinion of the Foreign Ministry. And I think that it is the basis for any further action on what degree it has been discussed, when discussed, to what degree of conversation has been reached with representatives of the Republic of Croatia. Also, from this document that we have here today, we see that this is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, I do not know whether the Council of Ministers was involved or just the ministries, that certain bilateral talks with the Republic of Croatia have been opened without any indication of what the Republic of Croatia thinks about this. And the next thing I do not agree, with the next move, which this ministry or the Council of Ministers has taken, is to seek the involvement of the international community, the Council of Europe, the delegation of the European Commission, etc. without previously held talks between the two states, between BiH institutions and the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, I think that we should return this material to our commission, given the document delivered today by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and given the fact that we do not have any document by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we should return it to our commission, that when it gets those documents, it offers a proposal for conclusions to the Parliamentary Assembly in order to address this problem in quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29875	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29876	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this question has been addressed in the past session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I agree with all those who say that the Council of Ministers of BiH has been quite late or is quite unspeakable when it comes to this issue, because the first plan of measures, as far as I can see from the documentation that I have and which was even made on this topic, is from November 2008. Many times this issue has taken place in the BiH Parliament. In the last term, Parliament adopted appropriate conclusions, obliged the Council of Ministers and individual ministries, but unfortunately to this day I think nothing concrete has been done. The only concrete thing that has been done is in fact what Parliament has adopted here to educate some fund, to help these people in these court disputes that they can cope more effectively or successfully with the problem they have. We don't need to be mistaken, this is going to be difficult, because if things were simple they'd probably be solved by now. This is hard to go, there are serious problems and problems come because of the non-cooperation of the 59th Republic of Croatia on this plan. And I am very interested, because of this, I got up most to speak here, according to the latest information we received today on the table, it says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to us, yes, which states that the Croatian side has agreed to hold consultations on this topic at the end of September 2009, where the issue of fired workers from BiH should be found, and the outcome of these consultations is still unknown to us. I think the Ministry of Civil Affairs should have made an effort to get information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since this was supposed to be at the end of September 2009, to tell us today what it was, whether it was a consultation at all. So it was supposed to be about 15 days ago, because today is October 14th, this was supposed to be at the end of September 2009, and whether anything was achieved at that meeting. I don't know, I wish he did, I doubt he did. And that's why we're left with two things. This problem can be fully resolved by agreement with the Republic of Croatia, but it is obvious that this agreement is difficult. And then, until that agreement is reached, we have two things ahead of us. First, let us here in our budget see what we can do for these people. I think that as a state, we should take care of our citizens, including this country's budgets. These are our citizens who, neither guilty nor debtors, have found themselves in the position in which they were found. And I think that these measures that the Council of Ministers has proposed in its plan, which concern free legal aid, health care, health insurance, then social protection, if they are in a state of extreme social need, pension-inhabitation, etc., I think they should be considered once more by the Council of Ministers and see what is the maximum and this state can do. I think in that plan or on that plan we should react. This is not the only category of people that we in this country need to worry about, but it seems to me that one of the few who has escaped beyond any concern of this country. And the other thing that we can do in that direction is that I appeal, and that's how I understand the conclusions of our committee that discussed this issue. And the other thing, from this material, at least the latest material, I haven't seen any, I would call it a more determined role of this country to address this issue. I'm not gonna use the word "aggressive" on purpose. It says here that letters have been sent to international organisations and there is no answer to that. I will also apply a thesis here, which I usually apply in the problems BiH has with its neighbours: I think that the problem must be internationalised and that the problem must be put on the agenda of those organisations in which we have this kind of problem intended or inspired to become... The question is simply, the question of the border, the question of not talking, I was talking about this when I talked about boundaries, so BiH wants to have clean relations with its neighbours, clean bill, long love, and see where we are. It is obvious, therefore, that this is not the case on many issues, and we will inevitably have to internalise the matter, and it must be done by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, if this Parliament is to be too. And before the European Commission, this issue should be found, among other things, because I think none of us should go to the EU or to further associations if we have some unresolved problems and issues between us, and we do not want to address them in accordance with international standards and international law. Where it exists in the world – here is colleague Ajanović talking about workers from Germany now: you worked a year in Germany, you came back here, it is known that in a year you earned so much and so much and the man knows why he worked – 35 years of work and not your fault goes out of that country or gets expelled or, I don't know under any circumstances, either, and then where you were, nowhere, what you did, nothing, you spent your life, aged, no conditions for retirement, no conditions for life. This needs to be re-analyzed. I'm pleading for this in this way. That's it, thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29877	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29878	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first, interesting few dates here: when the Council of Ministers brought this, when he discussed, when we referred the request and here urgently. Emergency today before the session, and not before the session, but... an hour before the debate on this agenda point. It's urgent, more than urgent, but fine. So BiH has to make priorities once and say what it is. This material would be discussed in another way if we had, as Mr. Nanić said, a genezu – we talked to Croatia about this and this problem, it is not possible to agree or they have accepted one part to do it, to fulfil the obligations, to put on a cartoon, can or plus. This is what we talked about, they don't accept, because love takes two. I see this third attitude as some threat to the international community, to international organisations, and I don't know what it is, and that we haven't previously exhausted all the other methods available and the things that are, you see, as a digression. We introduced some measures of a temporary ban on imports, but I didn't even hear it on television: the Croatian minister flew right into Sarajevo! The next day in my competent commission a protest note, and it was you from the House of Representatives' Presidency, from the College that forwarded it to us. That's nice. Not fine, I think this, God Bog I'm making a circus, but that's the procedure, so we get to know each other what he wants. So when you squeeze someone against the wall a little bit, they either raise both hands or bend or do something, but it doesn't stand stiff. Now, that's a crackdown on what we don't have data -- what is it that any of our ministries, Council of Ministers, so here's if there's been a Parliament, and even the Presidency that's in charge of foreign policy, what's been talking about and what our neighbours want first in Croatia, what can I do, what won't? So again, I'm doing thissis for painting, I was just suggesting here, and thank you very much, gentlemen of the College, for meeting me who's sitting there, because I was afraid they weren't foreign savings, so I don't put them on my back again, you know how they threatened me, and I fought for their rights and asked the Council of Ministers, when he had exhausted everything, to enter international arbitration, and then we go, what Professor Ajanović said, to Strasbourg. But we don't have anything we've done here so far. What Croatia doesn't want, here's someone to tell me. And the other thing, whatever they want. What he can accept from what's meant to be here by these measures. We are the only ones who have anticipated measures, and we do not know the measures of Croatia that decide on these measures. So, we overlooked ourselves measures that we cannot fulfill in any form, nor force Croatia to do anything if we do not sit down as civilized people with them at the table. When I say we sit, the competent representatives of the institutions, not me. So, first, that circle to close, to do all that's planned, not to get into any disputes, not to argue, because when we're in a peaceful and tolerant conversation, we'll be able to solve it more easily. If we start with a threat to the international community, uh, and we want them out of here ourselves, what are we going to threaten with them, etc. So, to submit that I will support the proposal of Mr. Remzija Kadrić's conclusion, because let's not only lead on one structure from the Republic of Croatia, we have perhaps 61 Macedonia, from Montenegro people who are also unhappy, not because of wartime, but because of something else, but because of their human rights are at risk. That these people, who have become BiH citizens by the circumstances, are not saying that they are on our burden, but that your burden and your problems must be solved by the two states. And that is exactly the only way, Croatia and BiH. But here, let me finish, I don't have today what anyone, on behalf of BiH, is talking to you about Croatia and what Croatia has said, we can do this, we can't do this. Then I'd have a way to say, if you're not socially resolved in BiH, here's what we're going to do, but we can't give you money when no one in the budget has predicted you. First of all, I'm not a man to make false promises to someone and it's not this Parliament either, that's for sure. But please, here is the House of Representatives, the College, ask the Council of Ministers for any information that has so far been bilateral talks, at the level of any institution representing this country, with our neighbours. And then we'll have the material, then we'll have the opportunity to discuss it, and then we'll see. And then we'll include, and I also support what Mr. Džaferović said, the issue of borders, we saw that he couldn't bilaterally. We already know what was done, we have the data, we have the evidence, we have the records, one commission, the other, the third conversation. Now, that's where we're gonna ask for help. But here, when I don't know who was talking to who his name was, not who he promised to whom and what the law should do, as I now say, it's this guy's fault, it's that one. And let's call on the Council of Europe now, so when they get involved, I don't say they're getting involved that they won't help, but the question is to make it clear to us that we're not lying, they won't put themselves here on BiH's side. That they are now preventing Croatia from entering the EU because of this problem, just work. Such an illusion in... they care about 13,000 people and... they don't care about numbers. So you don't have to deal with it that way. And I don't have any documents, I repeat, which would be the basis for me to discuss today and say what Croatia won't do, so I might as well say some anger on them. Here's what our neighbors are like, none. But today I say, they're good neighbors because I don't know what they want, what they don't want, what they say, what they accept, what they don't. Now, I need this material so we can discuss and help these people together no matter who the nation is, no matter where it came from, this, the conclusion from which the neighbouring republics of the former Yugoslavia came, are now our citizens, to accept them as humans and to do what we can. But we can't even make false promises that we'll solve their problems, when we can't solve the problems of the people who are born here and live hundreds of centuries, that I don't go that far. Thank you very much. So, you're looking for this material, if it's possible to get who talked to who.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29879	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll try, here as a proposer, to suggest one conclusion, given that there were several different proposals and variations here. First, some colleagues debated as if we were talking about this for the first time. Of course, they weren't in the last session, so this isn't the problem that's taking place here. We have discussed this before and there have been different attempts to make an agreement with the Republic of Croatia, etc. And it didn't work out. So again, we've updated this today with a goal, so let's say we put another speed to solve this problem. 62 I think it would be good for this matter to remain alive, and to perhaps come to the meeting and the proposal of Mr Nanić, to adopt a conclusion asking the Council of Ministers to keep the Parliamentary Assembly informed three months of the implementation of the Plan and the Programme of Measures, meaning that same plan and programme adopted by the Council of Ministers, which in principle addresses these issues if it is resolved. So if that's the plan, he'll solve these questions. This would practically mean that we would receive this report three months ago, and we would decide on an extended college whether there is a need to conduct a debate at the House or not later. In this way this matter would remain alive and we would follow here the implementation of the programme of measures, if nothing serious would the Council of Ministers worry more about the implementation of this programme, nothing else. I'll deliver this proposal in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29881	Thank you. In the meantime, I have tried to sublime what you have spoken of and honourable Ambassador Novaković. I've already written something similar here and I want to read to you that it would be divided and discussed. '1st. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports the measures and activities carried out by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, and according to the Plan, measures to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed in the Republic of Croatia and fired from work since 1991-1995, adopted at the 78th session of the Council of Ministers of 26th 2. In 2009. 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to report every six months to the House of Representatives on the implementation of this plan, which will include activities undertaken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under its jurisdiction." I tried to do it for six months, which I think is enough operational time, and to include what someone was talking about what the Foreign Ministry is doing in a report by the Council of Ministers on this plan. Of course, we also have suggestions for conclusions that were here, and I expect to get them in writing and get the material back to the Council of Ministers, and I'm going to have to put those conclusions first, and then we're going to do it and vote on these conclusions that we have. But, sir, (?) No microphone turned on Well, here I am going to forward to read in detail, Mr. Darko Marjanović in front of the Association of Workers of Persons with Disabilities and Mr. Mervan Ramiz in front of UGOR wants to address Parliament. I ask Parliament if we will allow our representatives of these associations within five minutes to say what they have. And I'm asking you to do it by voting. 63 Prepare to vote. You can vote. I'm trying to turn it on, but it's not working. ... Okay. Whoever's got the charts on hand, please let us vote on the charts. Thank you. Please, first Mr. Darko Marjanović, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29883	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, firstly, to thank you for the trust you've shown me. I will try in short lines to raise some other important questions that the honourable MPs have not touched in this debate, which concerns issues related to this group of persons you are discussing. What I'd like to say first is that I've been dealing with this problem for more than 10 years. I worked for international organisations and dealt with cross-border legal assistance, co-ordinated these projects, and I am very familiar with the issue of these issues. I'd just like to draw attention to that large group of these faces that are up to '91. The year was settled and had a long-standing residence, a family home and regular employment in the Republic of Croatia, which were originally from BiH, and which, due to the war, had fled to BiH for one reason only, which had been exposed to discrimination based on nationality. For these reasons, they were either expelled or forced to leave the Republic of Croatia. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the unresolved issues of this group of persons are not only about return, labour and labour status, but also about the return of former tenants' rights, because in particular only BiH citizens, who had resident rights in Croatia, are now prevented from living under conditions of housing in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, this concerns issues of unpaid pensions and wartime disability, the right to statehood of the Republic of Croatia and other status rights which include the right to participate in the privatisation of state property and other issues under social rights. During their field work, international local NGOs have also registered a large number of human rights violations cases by the national authorities and courts of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the lack of adequate legislation or obstructions in the application of applicable rules, procedures in a number of cases brought before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which has so far passed a number of judgments that have identified serious infringements of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights by the Republic of Croatia. Also, a large number of refugees face the inability to access justice in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the exercise of the right to fair and fair trial in civil cases, the right to make a decision, a judicial decision within a reasonable period of time, including the right to an effective legal remedy and the right to respect for homes and property. I note that because of the difficult material position and the social position of this category of citizens in BiH, who do not have the necessary financial resources to handle long and expensive court proceedings in the Republic of Croatia, and also because the Republic of Croatia has not provided 64 financial resources for the free legal assistance of socially endangered citizens in civil cases, poor refugees in BiH are not provided with basic and guaranteed human rights relating to the right to access to justice in the Republic of Croatia guaranteed by Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. This specifically and explicitly refers to refugees now in BiH and who are citizens of BiH. BiH also does not have an organised system of first aid to the socially endangered population or BiH territory, and there are no plans on cross-border aid modes for other countries in civil matters, including a particularly large number of cases related to Croatia's territory. Republika Srpska passed the Law on Free Legal Assistance, however, due to the cross-border issue itself, the RS Office for Free Legal Assistance is unable to give them adequate legal assistance. And most importantly, on the basis of a decision from foreign donor countries to stop funding projects of free legal assistance for the Republic of Croatia since the beginning of 2008, this category of citizens has been denied and until then available opportunities for free legal assistance services in the Republic of Croatia and BiH, which have been organised by international organisations in the Republic of Croatia. So, no more grounds for free legal aid, these people do not have, either in the Republic of Croatia or in BiH, if they are socially endangered and do not have their own financial resources. You are aware that the OSCE Mission in Croatia has also been reorganised, and it is now working as an office that follows only two issues concerning the implementation of some of the issues that the OSCE Mission is in charge of. On the basis of the above, it has been found that since the beginning of 2008, no socially endangered refugee person from the Republic of Croatia, who has no own financial means to pay for a lawyer in Croatia, who is located in BiH, has been able to obtain free and adequate legal advice in BiH or to be represented before the administrative judicial authorities in Croatia,... thus making it impossible for this group of citizens to protect property, labour or any other legitimate legal interest in Croatia, and, above all, the problem of the BiH state and is in the jurisdiction of its authorities and institutions, primarily the Ministry of Human Rights. Due to these open problems, the lack of legal assistance in BiH for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a large number of these persons are constantly losing their acquired rights, including the right to judicial protection, and the BiH state does nothing at the legitimate demands of its citizens to provide their legal protection, which they ask BiH to organise professional assistance and protect their rights in the Republic of Croatia, including requirements for urgent treatment in these cases. I would just like to say that there has been a conclusion of the House of Representatives since 21 December 2005, which was similarly formulated as this, however, according to him, as far as I know, has been very little done. I'd draw attention if it was 19. 2. In 2009, a meeting of most BiH ministries was held in Banja Luka, which is security, justice, civil affairs, foreign affairs, and then certain conclusions were reached on these issues. Representatives from the RS also attended the meeting, representatives of these associations dealing with the protection of the rights of these persons. So these conclusions were reached in 19. 2. Right after that, it's the Council of Ministers, so 26. 2. 65 adopted a five-point plan, however, in those five points many things are in contradiction with these conclusions. ... The points are general and one of the key issues, which is the first question, to do an analysis, is entrusted to the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, which basically has neither the legally based authority nor the capacity to launch and carry out any activities in determining the status and resolving of the open issues of this category of people. Also, entity cantonal labour and employment agencies had no capacity, because their activity is focused and their legal basis for work is based on something else entirely. That's why this list was also such, very bad and more registered you have in the associations, in these two associations, than a total of applications were collected in BiH space. I'll cut it short. On the basis of all the above, we believe that we should not comment further, so this, one of the conclusions is, let's say, I apologize to my throat, it hurts to analyse the legal rules of the Republic of Croatia. The legal analysis has been done by the international community and we can deliver to anyone who is interested and to the competent ministries who are in charge of such an analysis. We would also specifically propose only the following, i.e. in front of the association, we propose that BiH's competent institutions and, most importantly, the Council of Ministers of BiH take certain measures and activities that can help resolve this issue more permanently, which is to first support activities related to the collection and production of the database. You don't have a specific database, how many people are out of work, whether these are discriminatory cancellations, etc. What is important is to establish: a qualified existence of human rights violations. We also suggest that such a database, with the help of the association, be made by a unique methodology for the entire BiH area, with the base being formed by municipalities, by entities and by cantons. So at each level we have the same data collection system. Secondly, that the Council of Ministers must clearly define a policy and strategy to address this issue on the basis of collected and analysed data from this area. So, they are BiH citizens, I am now speaking from the aspect of their rights, they are BiH citizens, whether the BiH state will enter relations with Croatia to resolve their issues, or whether the problem of discriminatory cancellations will solve itself from its budget by compensation, it remains for the BiH state to decide on it. And finally, the Council of Ministers, what is urgently needed, is that the Council of Ministers should immediately assist the appropriate and acceptable projects of NGOs that carry out activities to protect the rights of former disabled workers, primarily because BiH has not yet taken over any of the only activities that has benefited this population. There, thank you, that's it. I'm still sorry about the voice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29884	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mervan Ramiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29885	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much for letting us come here and give you all the observations and observations about this problem. 66 I must say that we are 21. 12. In 2005,... not us, but Parliament adopted a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights certain conclusions. They consist of five points. Unfortunately, it's being carried out very slowly, almost by no means. We're in a hurry, we're running out of time 14. 2., Council of Ministers, that's what others have already mentioned, so maybe I shouldn't repeat myself, I just want to tell you that when I talk about Croatia and the problems of this, some emotion takes me away, because I've spent 30 years there, and I've worked honestly, but from Croatia, not just me, but all of us, we've been expelled as the greatest civilization waste, simply, without any rights left. However, there are good memories. We do not forget these memories and we are grateful to Croatia. From there we fed our families, ourselves, etc. That's why I want to tell from this place that we want every good in Croatia, but we will not give up our rights. I want to tell you the same thing that my predecessors didn't mention. In 1992, Mr Tuđman's decree passed the Foreign Employment Act. In 1992, I became a foreigner in my own country. I worked there and lived for 30 years. During the night, I became a BiH citizen, and I am proud of it, but it is illogical that someone, who I have acquired over 30 years, will take me overnight and equate me with the rights of those who have just been employed in Croatia. We've been fired in various ways. The smallest part of us managed to press charges against the court and run disputes. Unfortunately, these disputes last, here, I've been running it for 16.5 years, and now I've kind of ended it, which is sad. This is inconceivable, because the Labour Relations Act and what follows, because this legal procedure, it was supposed to be settled within six months, not 16.5 years. There's little responsibility here and this country, because no one gives us legal protection. We take lawyers from Croatia, courts of Croatia, allowances of Croatia, and you know what will happen, although I trust them, that we understand each other. But they're stalling it to make us disappear as long as possible. Furthermore, which means that if the state has an interest in protecting us as its citizens: it should allow us some kind of legal protection both at Croatia level and at BiH level, so that, I don't know, they don't come into a situation that takes place indefinitely. So free legal aid is something that needs to be done immediately. The law, i.e. an interstate contract signed by Croatia and BiH, has left disabled works that have become the case in the Republic of Croatia. He did not regulate the right of pensioners who did not receive unpaid pensions during the war, which means the lack was up to those who signed such a contract. We are the only group of citizens on the territory of the former Yugoslavia that has achieved nothing based on privatisation. So that I don't talk any further, if I don't take up your time, we'll write it in writing, so we'll deliver it to you. Well, thank you for seeing us, for listening to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29886	Thank you, too. Dear Members, you have heard firsthand the problems this population is facing and I would ask you if there is any more need for discussion or that the conclusions you have heard, that you may propose, in the meantime form and deliver in writing, so that we may decide. 67 And we move to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. The programme "Perspective" and Information of the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH on the transition and care of persons MOBiH and OS BiH, with Opinions and proposals of the Joint Commission on the Defence and Security of BiH (material number: 03/1-03-578/09, of 21. Nine. 2009) The Joint Commission for Defence and Security has provided the above-mentioned material to the House for consideration together with the Commission's Opinion and conclusions, which read: '1. They receive knowledge of the Programme for Transition and Care of Fired Persons of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of BiH "Perspectives" and the Information on the Implementation of the Trust Fund for BiH and the activities of the Ministry of Defence in the area of the Transition and Management of Staff in the course of the defence reform in 2004-2006, Information on the Transition and Management of Staff of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of BiH, an act entitled "The launch of the new Trust Fund for BiH (written in Cyrillic); 2. The BiH Ministry of Defence's efforts to build an adequate system of transition and care for the discharge of military personnel and to strengthen its own transition capacities, which take care of the preservation of the operational capacity of the Armed Forces of BiH, although this ministry has no obligation under the provisions of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH; 3. BiH's defence ministry and international migration organisations are supporting efforts aimed at launching the NATO Fund for BiH. In this regard, the planning of initial financial resources in the BiH Ministry of Defence's 2010 budget is also supported as part of the opportunities available, given that these funds would serve as an incentive for donors to set up a new fund; 4. The upcoming transition and staff management activities of all state authorities and institutions involved in any way in this process expect maximum engagement in order to realise the efforts made by the BiH Ministry of Defence on their implementation. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29888	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have stood up to the Joint Defence and Security Commission to say a few sentences concerning this issue. 68 First, this information that you have read now, the chairman, we have received from the Ministry of Defence at the Commission and the Commission, we have assessed that this is such a huge question that Parliament should stand behind this, both at home of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because the next year over 2,700 people, members of the Armed Forces of BiH, because of years of age, so over 35 years, should be fired from the Armed Forces. They knew when they were closing that contract that the moment would come.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29889	Let's just listen to each other for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29890	So that's 2,700, I think, and 50 people. The BiH Defence Ministry has provided the parliamentary commission with one plan and a programme that should be done all together because it is not just a possible social problem here, it is also a problem for the implementation of the BiH Armed Forces Mission if more than a quarter of the BiH Armed Forces total is fired at one point. I think that the Ministry of Defence along with the Joint Staff has offered one plan supported by the Joint Defence and Security Commission, which involves one process of action, the use of all possible internal reserves within the Ministry and the Armed Forces, for example, to fill about 600 unfulfilled places, which allow these people to be directed to those places with age, and then to improve people into multiple acts that have acquired conditions, also a significant number of people. And when all of this is taken into account, then it's a figure somewhere up to 1,500 people, and then a plan was made to keep young soldiers and people who, as age goes, have conditions and discharges. I think the House of Representatives should stand behind the position of its commission and its proposal on this matter. So now I can tell you what the essence of this problem is and what it is, how long things can go when this problem is at stake, I'm going to mention the deminers. Deminers, so the people who have gained a great deal of experience in this job, a few hundred, 250 say, if this whole thing were strictly applied, would be out of a job, and the state would be out of people who are now the most able to do the job right now. The plan of the Ministry that was offered to us, supported by the Joint Commission, solves the issue, and these people will not be moved and no contracts will be broken down, because one of the modes I was talking about, which are being discussed with this information. I had a need to get up to say these few sentences. The materials explain everything, and I suggest that the House of Representatives accept the proposals and conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Commission on this issue and encourage the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff to continue these activities. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29891	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, discussion. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29892	Thank you. I am not going to debate for long, given that my colleague Džaferović expressed the essence of what he should have said, but I think that in this place and at this time, it is correct to say that the Ministry of Defence, whose deputy minister is here and I welcome her, so that the Joint Staff and the Ministry of Defence, are all personal, to say top management, was very active, very responsible for this problem, and also that the Joint Commission in several sessions was dealing with this issue, which at one point in the public opinion, which, if not, went hand in hand to the Ministry, or to Parliament, or to state bodies, but I think that in the end a few interventions this matter was properly understood. So this is about people who stop the contract, not that they're surpluses in the military, but they're out of contract. They knew that their contract would expire and they sort of ran out of work. This... fund was formed to help them return, so to speak, to civilian life, to replace the uniform with a civilian suit and, in that sense, the Joint Commission has, I say, made a contribution. And what I think is most important for us at this point is that we should conclude here that in the budget, Minister Vrankić is there, I hope he hears the Šakota that makes the budget, I think it is very important that for 2010 the initial funds are foreseen, I say initially, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29893	Conclusion number three.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29894	That's right. And I think that's the essence of the whole story. If we're going to ask other money, we have to at least do something.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29895	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Information on measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01-50-31004/09, of 24. 8. 2009 As is known, at the 61st session, it was decided not to hold an information debate over the absence of a proposing, which we informed them of. I thank them for their presence today. The opinion of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development has been given to 15. 9, so here's the jubilee for the third time on the agenda. I'm opening a debate. I was afraid no one would answer. 70 Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29897	First of all, the Honorable Chairman, thank you for your laughter and encouragement, that's an incentive for me, I'm serious. So it's been more than a year since this House of Representatives adopted the conclusion that the Council of Ministers came up with a proposal for measures to resolve the recession which then, even last year, went violently and, behold, thank Bog, I see many countries in the environment, so it seems to me, and we're coming out of recession and this point has come to the agenda. Finally, when we go out here, it seems to me, but it's good, it's never too late. It's never too late if they're good measures and they're possible to realize. I hardly ever read as much material as this one. Well, I don't know if seven, eight times, maybe ten, because it would be a shame if I kept insisting on this, and I didn't know what it says there and what I'd be focusing on, and I have to express really glad that it's out there looking for some more extensive material, and not what we got two pages in the first version, so this time we got a little more pages and a lot of stuff written down that we were looking for. When you look at everything, it gives hope for optimism and gives some solutions in future time, but the material is material. Now that's got an echo. When I see good material, when I go back to reality and the current state, so I see that nothing works, it's a stand-by arrangement with the IMF because of this or that, but the best way to do is to keep the constant pressure of the wage reduction on parliamentarians and the other receipts, that's every point. Is it important in this House to someone, to the towers, to the newspapers, to the media? Well, that's what we did. Well, if it's all right, we'll do more. But reality is completely different. The rest, according to some statistics, is close to 50,000 workers without a job. It's for BiH level. For the RS entity, much more favourable data, they say, employment even increased, I listen to that director of the Employment Service, and I couldn't believe it, but I find something online. There's 500 left over, but he hired 600 out there somewhere, so it's kind of covered. But I'm only talking about the country, about BiH. So, no one's happy if there's an imaginary thermal water in Tesnje or Tesla, and I don't have it at the Palace. What do I do now? I can't make a bathroom worse when I don't have water. First I have to have thermal water. Then what am I gonna do? But so I don't make comedy out of this, because I never do, but I like to paint things out, and really get serious. The three things we keep insisting on here is: Euro-Atlantic integration, if we survive, the simplest thing we've said, and that's economic policy, and whether we're going to be safe, unforgivable these two forwards. So I don't know what order to take first, second, third, it doesn't matter. And when I look at last year's economic parameters that we've been in the deficit of ten and a half billion, there are some shifts this year around the export of goods, especially when it comes to agriculture and trying to solve the imbalances with our partners, first of all from the neighborhood, there are indications that we're going forward. But for nothing, we're talking here, no matter how much this paper shows us that we're moving forward, when the people say there's never been any worse. And the people are wondering, firstly, if they're going to choose someone here to represent him, and then how they represent him, so on and so forth. So, the people are wondering. Now, when people ask themselves, I say what they ask me. That's a lot. First question I eliminated with a simple 71 here by answering: the war will not be, thank Bog, I can guarantee it. There's no war. And in peace we can all agree on the basis of peaceful co-existence, to take on that term very popular and now, to negotiate, to talk and to negotiate, all with one goal to make us feel better. Now, I'm going back to what the people say. We've never been worse, there's no word better, left out. I say it's better, it's not, it's the worst. And then I agree it's really hard now. But I'll never accept the fact that it's the worst. This country has natural, natural, to separate and then intellectual resources for 10 reforms of these platforms and measures to get out of the crisis. So now I'm asking how we're in a crisis at all. Who generates this crisis? However I perform today, Parliamentarians are the most responsible. Now these journalists would be too pleased to say here we are, I won't say this time. Here we are. I'm looking for these measures, here's the first thing I've been looking for for for a year, here's the turn. Mr. Minister, I highly appreciate you as an expert first, you've shown excellent results in this area, sometimes a little bit of Šakot you've done well, and then I'm afraid that I'm not attacking him, maybe not guilty and, well, I won't tell you today, I'm going to commend you, but I'm going to ask one specific question, that I'm not going to go along with these segments how you wrote it all, that today you're unoptimistically giving a statement, because there's no optimism here, you'd take an honorable resignation, right, but since you believe this is going to be better, you're fighting like us to do this, well, that you're telling us today how long you can't, in 15 days, because this year has passed, we haven't done anything, is that half of next year, or it't been two months before the election campaign campaign, or she's already started so that you can't put all your powers into realizing what you wrote. So, and that everyone in all fields, and I asked for the thematic session to be there and the BiH Chamber of Commerce, entity, whoever knows something about this area, that we all join together and help you and ourselves, and then most citizens who expect help. Pensions are reduced by some categories. There's no increase in any, that's the worst, but there's always a reduction to meet the demands of this or that. I'd like to see some measures that will say: not an increase in salary 100% or pensions, but in a short time we can solve this, so let's all go there, because that's the right way, there's no other way. In the long run, these measures look one way or the other, so let's see who else can help us. And that I wouldn't further explain economic policy, and I really took this seriously, because people ask me what they're going to eat tomorrow, how they're going to survive at all, and that I wouldn't represent here as a populist, just me defending the interests of the people, on the contrary, we're together chosen by the people to join together and see where Parliament can do it and to help what the Council of Ministers wrote, where these barriers are, where these brakes are, and really... what I'm going to convince you when you know better than I do. If the economy were to move a little bit better, we wouldn't have these points ahead, probably not. That's what we'd like to discuss in the hallway. We'll deal with it right now. Because when a man is fed up, in the mood for conversation, for song, for joy, when he is hungry, he waits for me in front of parlament to grab my throat and say it's your fault. So, we have to speak in the language of the people that we understand each other and start getting better for all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29898	And a little bit to you, too. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29899	Of course, of course, Mr. Belkić. So what I'm expected to say is, here, I'm asking for a cut and a cut of my salary. I won't. I'm not the cause of all this. But good. Let me finish. So, thank you to the Council of Ministers for delivering this to Parliament after a year, so that we have delayed for objective reasons, so I would like to hear Mr. Minister, who is indeed an expert in this area, say that this will be a situation in some time waiting for us. But not to be, please, ahead of the elections, but somewhere until April or, I don't know, if we can after this winter that awaits us, and see what only one wind in Sarajevo and in these cities has made it worse when people are hungry. So, Mr. Minister, I'm not taking up your time and I'm not giving you my word, it's going to be the chairman, because he's running a session, which I respect extremely, and I'm going to end up with this and ask you colleagues, let's, people, do everything we can to give the economy a priority and importance for it to be a leader. And believe me, I was with people, when Professor Ajanović used to keep mentioning me how we were in that system, now I'm going to mention him in a positive context and much earlier how the communists handled it. Five men made a deal, an introductor came out, a replica, thank Bog, it wasn't and it went into realisation, not Slavuj that it appeared 20 times today, and none of his stories were used by anyone. Let's all go together and when the economy pulls away, the political tensions will all go down, and we'll solve everything easier. I repeat, the man when he's fed up is in the mood for everything, when he's hungry most he hates me when he sees me and won't look at me, not listen to me. That's why. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] If I've crossed, thank you very much, sorry, someone should have said it sooner.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29901	Don't warn. Since he is the proponent of this initiative, he has the right to explain it a little longer, and I expect that there will be some conclusions after this discussion in writing. Next up for discussion, honourable Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29902	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, no one today will discover hot water in the debate if it says that the global economic crisis and recession today are taking their toll both in the economy and from BiH citizens and I would not agree with my colleague Jovičić that the recession is in stagnation. I would not agree here, either, with the very title of this material if it were just negative effects and the consequences of so-called. global economic crises, because if we say so, it seems to me that we amnestize ourselves for many of the mistakes and failures that the authorities have made at 73 all levels, thus producing or deepening the crisis ourselves. To be open to the end, I think our mistakes, our blindness and irresponsibility have produced more consequences and more negative effects than global influences. I will remind you personally that more than a year ago in this house I initiated the submission of information and debate on measures taken to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis and the coming recession. For the discussion, we received information on three typed pages, as it looked, and in the debate I was openly respected that I was needlessly inciting psychosis, and that the crisis would bypass BiH and that, under quotes, the privilege of rich countries. Since then, because of the profession, which because of this job here in Parliament, of course as others, I have followed the motion of the economic crisis and recession, followed what those who have taken on time and taken seriously the crisis and followed what we have done at all levels. If there is anything positive from this to today, in our behaviour, it is that we have evolved from the belief that the crisis will bypass us and that it is a privilege of the rich to finally admit and realize that we are deep in the crisis and that it is taking its toll in all spheres, and in particular the economy and from the citizens of BiH. I will not specifically comment on these 16 measures adopted by the Council of Ministers for the mitigation of the effects of the global economic crisis on the BiH economy, nor will I comment on the measures taken by the entities, because in BiH, entity, cantons and municipalities, everyone is running their own policy without saying how inconsistencies the legislation is, and thus cannot effectively fight the crisis, nor can they mitigate its consequences. The only point of light in easing the consequences of the financial crisis, which was preceding the economic crisis and recession, is certainly the Central Bank, which in time warned of the crisis and initiated moves from its area of competence. Of course, it should be borne in mind that we are not the masters of our monetary policy. I do not agree that in the successes of the fight to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, we attribute to ourselves that we have maintained a stable banking sector and that no bank has failed. It's not even the measuring parameter of a successful crisis management. In America, close to 100 banks collapsed, and I have no doubt that America is more successful in dealing with the consequences of the crisis than BiH. With us, my knowledge is that not only has no bank failed but it has not done business with its loss in the first six months, and some have earned a record profit. I would be happy if these results were a reason, i.e. a product of business, ability and open competition of these banks. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Banks, we must conclude, were not solidarity with citizens and the economy in easing the consequences of the crisis, but would say they profited from the crisis and the accidents of citizens and businesses. It is clear that there is no uniform model of combating the crisis and easing its consequences, but countries that have recorded positive effects in the fight against the crisis and recession have done so by placing an emphasis on three anti-crisis segments of action. And that, firstly, rationalisation of public consumption, then promotion of production, investment and exports and, thirdly, the promotion of a cost-effective demand, i.e. the promotion of consumption. Let's be correct and analyze what we've done in these three segments, and we'll see that we're still good at how little we've done in these three segments. This information takes a brief look at the global and regional measures taken to mitigate the crisis in the world and in the countries of the environment, which lists nine such measures. Except for what was initiated by the Central Bank, among the nine measures that have proved effective in 74 countries, I unfortunately cannot find BiH in the fog in any of these measures. You see, one of these nine measures is strong public investment in infrastructure and mobilising foreign loans for these purposes. As far as we're concerned, I guess it's enough to say that letters and numbers today have a billion and 940 million KM of approved loans from other countries and international financial organisations and banks to which we pay interkalar interest because we didn't put them in the usage phase. Most of these loans are just intended for the infrastructure and the energy sector. One of these nine measures is the mobilisation of EU funds, the provision of favourable incentive loans through development banks, especially for export companies. In our case, these loans from development banks are given by strange criteria to the sons of prime ministers, party ahbabs or brothers by business, and instead of loans for export companies, loans are preferred for inad towers, shopping centres and other less important, not to say otherwise, projects. We do not have any measures in the fog to promote a cost-effective demand and consumption without which it is illusory to expect, first, new investment, then an increase in production and, secondly, in recent months, we have reduced all measures to the mitigation of the consequences of the crisis, downgraded, so on stand Bay arrangements and agreement with the IMF, and on this in BiH, we are spinning and politics and economies and socialities, etc. But, I'm afraid, as we understand this injection, it's going to be a bit of a fudge. At this point in time of agreement with the IMF, I see the greatest benefit in what the IMF is going to make us do through conditions for stand-by arrangements in the face of the crisis, what we should have done ourselves. To be honest, of these adopted measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis, I expect nothing, because, no offense, these measures have neither head nor tail and woe to whoever is relying on them in the fight with the crisis. Instead of proposing a conclusion, I will finally state my opinion that the negative consequences of the crisis and recession in BiH are too serious to fight them this unseriously. To mitigate the negative consequences of the economic crisis and recession, therefore, only a strategy whose leadership is synchronised by the vertical and horizontal structure of the BiH government, not in this way as it is done in BiH, which not only does it not mitigate the negative consequences of the crisis, but I would say...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29903	Please don't leave the O.R., we'll lose the quorum. We're gonna lose the quorum, Mr. Jukić. I'll interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29904	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29905	Please pause for 15 minutes. 75 [[PAUZA]] We are constantly at the edge of the quorum, please be patient, continue, continue here and the initiator of this agenda has left, of course, the debate. Savo Erić. Here you go, Mr. Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29907	Thank you very much, Chairman. Most likely the commitment itself to this point shows that this story will go into the fog in some part, realistically speaking. That's why I'm gonna try to be as short as possible. Had it not been for this crisis, it would have been hard for BiH to find a way and save itself already in the crisis it was in, and therefore we have many indicators that would not be apostrophe. What is important and what we are calling on right now in our lives are resources, nature and such a life, but we have to say that we can definitely not rely on ourselves, that we have no resources in this respect, and thus we show that we are standing right now – that our resources are very small, we rely on the woods, and we've already cut them out, and we don't have much more resources to rely on, except for that communist phrase: the most water we have, the best rivers, we're the best in this, and then, when the indicators come out, we turn out to be little mice for all that story. What is indicative is that inflation has never been shown and that we are not showing it now, and I suppose it will not know the end, and it is one of the indicators of the current fiscal business. What's important to us is that our imports are still growing, that exports are no bigger, that banks have raised interest rates, that you can't anymore, that for a time it's a call that you can raise a loan without a jury or with one jury, you can't do that today, so that most of our population is due to the downfall of the economy came to the brink of collapse and most likely that we don't want to or will not see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29908	Let's listen a little bit, please. Sit in your seats so we can listen a little bit, man talks.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29909	I ask the question: Is the Ministry and the Council of Ministers considering tax cuts or are we still going to impose interest rates on the economy that is already at the end? If we have no intention of doing this, then we're really asking ourselves if we can get out of the crisis. I agree with speakers who have already said, so the global economic crisis is certainly not going to end in two years, I can really argue that, and we will last for at least a decade. So I suggest that we try to make a plan in one two years, the Council of Ministers and all of us here, and start by ourselves, to introduce austerity measures here in this budget that we have from a billion and 300. Can we save 200 – 300 million and try the most unfortunate population to help the most vulnerable population for these two years already on the road? That's some of my suggestions so I don't continue to be a philosopher. Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29910	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29911	I don't know how much this debate makes sense at all, but here, given the first seriousness of putting this point on the agenda. In fact, we have already postponed this agenda point twice because there was no Council of Ministers chairman here, because we expected the chairman of the Council of Ministers to talk about these issues, given the importance and role of the Fiscal Council in coordination, if nothing else, between the plans adopted at entity level. But here, I mean, in addition to this goes the conclusions of our commission that are really very unusual. Namely, the Commission has reached a conclusion that the Information on the measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis is being taken into account and forwards to the House of Representatives. So, the House of Peoples is under discussion with the presence of BiH finance and vault ministers, foreign trade and economic relations. The second conclusion is even stranger: "After the debate at home has been held, the conclusions reached will be discussed by the Commission for Economic Reform and Development". Therefore, what is least expected is that the Commission has its conclusions on this material, not that the Commission is waiting for any conclusions that will arise in the homes and that it will then consider them later. Secondly, what was also to be expected is that the motioner of this initiative also has the conclusions he will offer here to us, so that they will again be the subject of debate and subject, in a way, of decision-making. And, after all, here we are in this debate I don't see that (which we have spoken so far)... we have suggested some conclusions. So all of this is actually talking about the relationship to this issue, not talking about the very measures that I really don't know if it makes sense to talk about. But here, let's just say measures to alleviate the economic crisis, let's say adopted in the Federation of BiH, that the rate of growth of socially gross products is not less than 4.5% compared to 2008, so, well, GDP, then the employment rate should be less than 2%, and we've fired 52,000 workers so far this year. Of course, at the same time we have information that industrial production increased by 17% in the RS. Imagine, increased industrial production 17% and fired 20,000 workers! I have to say that probably the productivity rate we have safe among the biggest in the world today in RS, given these two indicators. So I'm not talking, let's say, I'm going to read you one measure: "I'm going to launch an initiative with the BiH authorities to reduce the price of advertising of public procurement." Please, this is a measure adopted in Parliament, means to address the global crisis, etc., etc. So that says enough how serious we have been and how seriously we will deal with these problems. So this is something we didn't welcome. This is something that we're going to welcome and escort. As much as this crisis is going to affect us, it's not going to depend on us unfortunately, it's going to depend on some other factors. We will not prevent anything, nor will we heal what we are. Thank you very much. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29912	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29913	So, I would like, given that we have more than a year of crisis, that we have proposed these measures, which we received more than a year ago, I think it's time that we as Parliament are looking for information from the Council of Ministers. And in that sense, I would like to propose a conclusion that we task the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the effects of measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in BiH, and the delivery deadline of 30 days. So those measures that they have proposed and they think that this global economic crisis can be resolved by those measures, let's see what the effects of these measures have been made by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29914	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I did not expect that the important item of this Parliament's agenda would be on the sidelines of the events, or the position that bears the greatest responsibility for the economic situation in BiH, as well as all others...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29916	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29917	...that global ones, because they need to adapt to the global crisis, Mr. Adem, means all the other factors that could have been useful today in discussing this information. In my view, this is a key factor, in addition to all that we need to meet for EU accession, because it is bad for us to join the EU unless we benefit from such information, or if we come into a situation for our population to enter into a financial agony, that is, a financial collapse. We can also say that we are saving and spending less, but it comes to you about when the host has 5 marks a month available, then makes a decision to save and he will probably end up with 5 marks and 5 family members in one month or two days in the cemetery, instead of making a decision on how to fertilize those 5 marks to get another mark so that he can survive that month. This information just doesn't show how we could warn this crisis, or what we should do more specifically, that this economic global crisis -- that is, they call recession, right, Mr. Minister, like it's a milder form of crisis and it hasn't gone into crisis yet, but it's recession, and I hope that it will go into crisis and that it will then be a more difficult form, unfortunately, I hope, I don't want it to be so – that we should warn it and see how 78 is more willing to welcome it. So, some kind of wave of problems is going towards us like a tsunami to some coast that is inhabited, of course, that this coast, or its population, should be ready to welcome that water wave, or to flee, or to make some kind of obstacles and dams. That's what asked me to say about the next one. In the delivery of this information, signed by Minister Vrankić, it says, "At this moment, we can conclude that most of the measures adopted by the Council of Ministers have been realised or their implementation is under way." Okay. Well, then in the parentheses that it is realising, says 'Central Bank measures, so increasing the level of deposit insurance, and then adopting the Act of Accises and using the funds of succession', etc., etc. I'm just seeing certain accusations here, and I don't see how you're forced to be reduced and the funds are otherwise, the funds that are going to blend into here, let me say, the economy and the economy of BiH. We can't have a strategy to ease the global economic crisis, it seems to me, just on this one, and that's to raise the burdens through, here's to say, excises, use of a succession, so that's something, that's some kind of means that we've been provided by earlier generations. And we don't have the right over the succession and the means of the succession that, here's to say by quotes, we do less work, while there's these funds we'll spend, so when they're gone, we'll see what we'll do and how we'll make it right, etc. So my proposal for a conclusion from all of this is that since this is a variable matter and there are good things here, I can't say that this is a material that isn't worth it, this is a material that's great for the basics and for the discussion as information that we're discussing right now, what's all done, but it's total inconclusive about this information. I understand that we cannot all be present at certain laws if we have no objections and come to a vote, but this is something that we are discussing as information and where we can give our contribution to improve the situation, then it should really be more serious, especially from the position that is most responsible for it. And that is why I propose that – since this is living matter as well as the global economic crisis, or rather, for the time being, recession and variable – the Council of Ministers quarterlyly updates adopted measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in BiH. So he has to update. If this is brought in and stood somewhere in the drawer, it will not be updated in accordance with some of the needs that may have come in or caused by an external factor or a domestic factor, then it will not have its effect, I think, in three months. So here's what I'm going to propose in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29918	Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29919	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, when all these discussions are heard, ultimately, raises one question: what is the purpose of all these discussions, regardless of how long they have lasted, which has tried to reach some conclusions, because it is stated that this agenda point comes exactly one year after the initiative and our discussions go in this direction as if BiH is a state with such ingenuity that it can implement certain things. One thing is clear, there's a lot in the hands of the entities. I'll do it for example, let's say, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: many things are just coordinated at the state level. We've been in a position to bring many surrogate laws here. Simply, such 79 laws whose effect is ultimately nowhere near planned, so maybe we should see what it really is that we can come from conclusions, which belongs to some state level, and where we can influence something. Otherwise, I get the impression that we're discussing something where there's no solution, because I'm sure of one thing, that this point was six months ago, eight months ago, that we have an instrumentation in our hands that doesn't allow us to do much more than we're going to do today. And what we can do is really very modest and perhaps one suggestion to try out what is at our disposal and really try to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29920	I, before I give Mr. Bahtić my word, hope that the initiator of this material is on the Internet, follows this debate and is in progress.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29921	Thank you. Here's Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29922	I'm one of the initiators and colleague Jovičić. When this initiative was how long ago it was and I won't have any discussion. In my opinion, it's a humiliation that a point like this deserves in a place like this, we first sought a thematic session, thematic or at least a first point. As we deal with this, here you can see, the measures have been taken, the effects are felt only by the Central Bank, and this second is all nothing, disaster, increase in unemployment, deficit. As we do, we're fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29923	Thank you. Some of them haven't called in a while. Here's Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, an economic theme. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29924	Thank you. I'll have unusual and, of course, very short. First, let me tell you what I'm proposing right now. To adopt immediately the Information on the measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects, because the Information is good. We have all the measures adopted by the governments, here is the Council of Ministers of March, or 21st. 4. bear the date of the letter, on both sides, so all 16 cartoons containing 14 measures, i.e. 12 effective measures, so on both sides. Also, this information contains a full six-page activity of the Economic and Social Council for the Territories of the Federation, which contains 11 objectives, not measures spoken by Mr Novaković, or 11 measures relating to the institutional, legislative and executive authorities of the Federation, which together with 34 measures of sectoral activities make up a total of 45 measures taken by the Federation Government to translate so. Therefore, on a total of six 80 pages, 45 measures and this information on a full 35 pages contains 124 measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which relate to measures in the domain of the national authorities of the RS. Then measures in the domain of the economy, measures in the financial sector and employment and social protection. So the information is comprehensive and I suggest we adopt it. What can we talk about about adopted measures adopted by governments? Or what did the writer mean by initiating this debate today? I want to believe that colleagues and Jovičić, who was so interested that immediately after his peaceful co-existence, when he spoke about this point of the agenda, came out of this room, just like his colleague Sado Bahtić, had really good intentions to initiate a debate in this House in the wake and ignorance of the effects of the economic crisis. How did we treat this initiative? You see, as an economist, I've followed every time before the ratification of whether or not we're going to have this agenda point. Here, look at these two previous sessions when it was, we had about that point somewhere before the ratification. With all the respect and order being released here, I just want to talk about the seriousness of our understanding of the economic crisis. We have not scheduled an extraordinary session, we have not invited the entity prime ministers to discuss here with the Council of Ministers and to see what this parliament can do. So, I'm talking about us now, and I apologize, of course, that before we immediately adopt this comprehensive information, because all of these papers and these measures, if necessary, I will elaborate in detail, which we are presented in this complete information. Now shall we talk about whether this measure is enough, whether the Federation Government has done well to accept the measures of the Economic and Social Council as its own, whether a comprehensive programme of 124 measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is indeed comprehensive or not. I mean, we can talk about it, but what effect does it make if this Parliament commits to someone? In whose hands is the instrument of battle, let Minister Vrankić say, the key fights, especially using the fiscals, say, an instrument for fighting the consequences or for easing the consequences of the economic crisis. I, let me, colleagues and colleagues, mention another detail. In December 2008, it seems true to me that it was December, initiated the debate and the proposal for a law on increasing secured deposits, because, as a result of circumstances, someone who was an economist, had perhaps a little more information, because this profession suggested to me, assuming what kind of reflections it might have on our banking sector, especially because of the sensitivity here and the problem of old foreign exchange savings, etc., and what reflections it might have here on financial and overall economic flows. Come on, let's remind ourselves of the outcome of that vote. And then why initiate? This information is excellent. Any debate in this House on the economic crisis should be quite different. And, admit, what's in the 19th place, after two delays, is,... after so long, after all the measures adopted, after, you see, I'm careful, so I added to this file relating to this item of the agenda and the answer to the parliamentary question that my colleague Kuzmanović asked to the Council of Ministers and entity governments and got a response from the RS, the Ministry of Finance. I don't know if you got an answer from these other two addresses. It didn't happen to me, maybe... But here's to say this, among other things, and this, if anything, is an informative character, at least we know what the letter of intent is so that one of us, as it has been in the media about some events lately, which concerns 81 fulfillment of the obligation from the letter of intent stand by the arrangement etc. does not emerge, which was the result of an elementary ignorance of things. That's how much this information is worth. And one more thing to add. I also put a paper in this file, which was distributed to us as MPs, which represents a letter from the Caritas of the Bishop's Conference of BiH, or a statement from the Participants of the Economic Forum from 18 September 2009, because I didn't know where to place this paper and that it had a specific weight, not just an informative character. Are we going to discuss these papers really in terms of maybe moving some things forward or not, or are we just going to find out here that governments are or aren't? adopt some set of measures, etc. I'm sorry, it may be a bit of an unusual discussion, but correct me if I've done anything wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29925	Thank you. You have read this opinion of our committee in charge of economic reform and development in which they agree that this information is, as usual, taken to the knowledge and that any conclusions that this House proposes are re-evaluated. I have in writing only one conclusion from the honourable MP Husein Nanić. I expect the conclusion that MP Okolić said he would deliver and we can hold a session and end it. I expect to get other conclusions by the end of the debate. Dear Ambassador Jerko Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29926	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, we here all have three of the most important problems that affects all of us and the citizens we represent, which are the economy, economy and economy. And about those three problems, here's how we treat them. This report is a good report, because we got this information about what was going on out there and what someone was doing, but what we should be particularly interested in are our powers, our powers, and therefore our responsibility for what we have powers, means that we use or do not use our powers and what effects we make of it. So, the express responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is tax policy, foreign trade policy and foreign policy. These are three tools that are almost the most important for each country's economic issues. And, I think it would be important that we get a report from these authorities what the Council of Ministers has done, what are the effects of it so far and what it intends to do next, because the financial crisis obviously didn't stop, but it's still going on, and the question is, how long will it take, because we have tens of thousands of companies with blocked accounts, we have over half a billion unemployed, so with the growth trend, we have a decline in exports in large percentages, although we have a very large deficit. I would suggest a conclusion to assign the Council of Ministers to deliver to us in the next 60 days a report on the effects of the measures it has taken and the new measures it intends to take. Thank you. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29927	The conclusion that honourable MP Husein Nanić delivered I think you already have on the tables: 'The Council of Ministers is in charge of providing the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the effects of the measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in BiH. Deadline for delivery of information for 30 days." You're also suggesting that we add new measures, so here, you and the Proposer agree, there's no problem. I'm closing the debate. Of course, I apologize, Minister Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29928	Thank you very much. I welcome all of you together. I'm glad this is being discussed today. I wish it had been before, in fact it wasn't up to us even though it was realized once that I wasn't present, but because of the other obligations I had, it was because of it, however, it wasn't said. Other colleagues could not answer the questions asked as well. What I want to say in short is that one question is being asked here – at the end of this debate they almost gave answers or maybe instead I shouldn't have answered any further, they were going to say it in the spirit of what I said – and I'm just going to try to paint it. In this signature you have my name and name, not even the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, we know that I am not going further into the profession now, that there is no monetary policy... only that fiscal part and that this Minister or this Council of Ministers has only 9% of the country's fiscal capacity, and here I am asked to give full answers to the economic situation or projections of leaving the country's crisis. I'm just saying as a matter of urgency, and what I thought was one step ahead, we decided to do, along with our associates, this information that was on the Council of Ministers, to unite what the entities were doing, to try to coordinate it and deliver that you have on your benches, so that we can discuss it metrically. And in the meantime, as an expression of all these policies, we made a stand by arrangement with the IMF, and that's another addition there that was. So, in order not to get into further discussions, I have to say that other countries, I had all their measures, so that I wouldn't be immodest, they look simpler and more benign than our measures, so, here's a way to say, that often times it doesn't matter how many times it's written, but how the measure and how it can be implemented and that, here, in such a way, we can also act, that that's how we have to do it. The BiH crisis was also without a crisis due to the financial crisis. When I spoke here for this speaker, so often I was called, that there was no financial crisis with us, and once again I confirm that there was no, that the measures we also took, and the Central Bank, and the Council of Ministers, and other control institutions operating in BiH, especially in the banking sector, did so to avoid the financial crisis, and it did in many ways that the dramatic consequences would not be worse when it comes to the economic crisis. 83 What you're following, and I can say that the world's economic downturn is stopping, that it's stagnating, I can say here that our indicators, in addition to having a downward trajectory for the first quarter, are already one quarter driving horizontally, and let's be optimistic, do everything we can to make it a little bit easier to climb, and in the coming year together, what we've projected with the IMF, we have so-called. a positive zero, so we'd go back to that zero growth. I believe that we can do that, with those measures that are together with all of us to apply them. Just for a little while, no matter what measures we take or write, or I don't know in which ways you expose them, I'm literally saying that we only have a few directions of action, which is to reduce public spending. It's a condition without which you can't, and it's no wise letter of what I'm about to say. Then, we need to create an ambience, an environment where there are several segments... of structural adjustment to competitiveness, so eventually, if you will, and a political environment. That political ambience creates us, what we were talking about in the financial crisis, interest: 3% of it is the only taste that has gone politically from the world market, so now you see how negative it is through that part. And in the end, I think all this together should result in investment and now, what Jerko said three times, what I'm saying now is just investing, investing and investing. It's the only place we can hire people and act that way. And in that context, I think that, in the end, we need to set things up and talk seriously, as the distinguished representative said to Azra, to recognize what is whose job it is. If I don't have the authority of the constitutional, why should I explain this matter, to go out here for competencies I don't have. Is that just to talk so we can fool ourselves, go home, and not do the job? We passed the Fiscal Council Act. He has a role to play in this coordination. This is a job for the Fiscal Council and, all of this you've addressed to the Council of Ministers, I'm asking you to just transform it to the Fiscal Council. And it's in charge of coordinating that entities do their work, that the Council of Ministers does their work, and that we all try together from these segments to put together one mosaic that will give us at least this 3% to go up to achieve those goals that we set in the IMF programme, and then it'll be a good basis for us to continue to develop as this economy can allow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29929	Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures and for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Development Agency The agency for the development of higher education and quality assurance is 11. Nine. In 2009, she asked the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to call a public competition and implement a procedure to elect three members of the Agency's Management Board for a three-year term. 84 The Joint College of both homes has established a proposal for a conclusion that we should adopt today. The proposal for the Prošireng College of the House is to name themselves from the House of Representatives: a) Sead Jamakosmanović, (b) Martin Raguž, (c) Branko Dokić. I'm opening a debate and asking if there are any other suggestions. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 21st point, Ad. 21. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29933	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have reason to resign as a member of the Special Investigation Commission in writing and will not waste your time repeating. On this occasion, I just have to say that the appointment and work of the Special Investigation Commission is an example of how the authority and dignity of Parliament and MPs are destroyed. First, that authority and dignity are being destroyed by the MPs themselves, and then it is being taken down by the executive institutions that should carry out our conclusions and service our work. I would, with a request for a resolution from a member of the Special Investigation Commission, give us a recommendation not to embarrass ourselves, not to take on other people's obligations and not to appoint a commission to do something we know in advance that will not be done. The job received by the Special Investigation Commission is the work of auditors and prosecutors, and we should have given this task to them and asked them for a report on the work done. This is how we embarrassed ourselves and this home and I, of course, do not want to participate in such work, and so, at least in this way, I want to express my opposition to such a way of working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29934	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: Ad. 23. Giving consent to ratification: a) Agreement on funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities for the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a cross-border co-operation component under the 2008 Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA); b) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a cross-border co-operation component under the 2008 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA); c) Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro on the basis of the cross-border co-operation component of the IPA Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) for 2008; d) Credit Agreements on the cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro – between the European Union and the European Fund for Rural Fund for R & Bosnia and Bosnia and Bosnia and the European Union, with regard to the European Union's security of Europe, the European Union, the implementation of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union and the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union and the European Union and the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union, the European Union and the European Union for the European Council and the Council and the European Union and the Council and the European Union, the European Union for the European Union for the Council and the Council and the Council and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council I suggest we unify the debate on all ratifications, if that's okay with you. You agree. Here you go. There's no one to argue, I'm closing the hearing. We're going back to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency (Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29937	Just one explanation, so no big discussion. You have the Report and the Supplemental Report. The report plus the updated report is a complete report, and I'm saying this because there is an amandman I. in this report that we adopted, so amandman II., and in this supplement there is an amandman I., and that is actually the third amendment, so that those who are making the law are, therefore, three amendments and nothing more. That they know what we're voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29938	Thank you. So we're talking about the total adoption of three amendments by this committee and that they became an integral part of the law. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, when it comes to this law, two things are about him. One of the most significant is that he is our obligation from the Map of Way,...it is one of the most powerful messages, and another of the worse ones: only the expectation of this law which, as it is made, I am not sure that he will essentially make some kind of shift. But this first condition makes sense, so if we fill the map of times, and fill the map of times makes sense if we cancel our visa regime. One without the other, so it wouldn't work. Since we've had some discussions regarding the adoption of this law, regarding other conditions, and that these are... our remarks that were previously related to this law, and to clarify them, I, in the meantime, and since we are at the end of the agenda, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-14-0.u29940	This is a business obligation and I would now ask Dom and the president of the SNSD Club if you agree to leave after that and the time to vote and, let's say, at 1800 we vote and end it all. I thank you for the 1800 vote. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, first of all, I would like to inform you that the voting control unit is not working, so we're going to have to, in the meantime, be done, through the computer to work; that was one of the reasons I asked to extend. At the same time, we have agreed in the consultations that, at the same time, the SNSD Club will not open a debate on the agenda point if adopted by 127. Rules of Procedure, we're not opening a debate, which doesn't mean the others can't answer. And I expected MPs Mirko Okolić and Adem Huskić to agree on point 19. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
