ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5037	Please take your seats nicely, we'll start working. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats, we'll start working. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow representatives, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected ministers, representatives of the international community, gentlemen of the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Just to let you know that today's House session is attended by all 15 MPs from all three clubs of five representatives. Before we move to discuss the agenda for this session, I would just like to give you one piece of information, which we all know, which is that Mr Rudo Vidović, our distinguished minister, resigned from office on 24 June at the House of Peoples, because at the 56th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24 June 2009, was appointed to a new duty, the office of Minister of Communication and Transport in the Council of Ministers of BiH. It's home to the people, day 25. Six. In 2009, the Central Election Commission of BiH submitted a form to determine the termination of the term of office to the representative/legislator, Mr Rudi Vidović. The Central Election Commission of BiH is 8. 7. delivered the Decision on the termination of the term of office of Mr Rude Vidović and the Decision on the granting of the mandate to Mr Dr. Božo Ljubić as the next qualified candidate from HDZ 1990 (Croatian Community). I call on Dr Ljubić to make a solemn oath before the House of Peoples, after which he assumes all the rights and obligations of MPs/legislators in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I will read the text of the oath, and I ask you to repeat the oath after I read every sentence. 'I swear I'll be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5039	'I swear I'll be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5040	respect BiH Constitution, 2
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5041	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5042	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5043	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5044	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5045	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5046	Thank you very much, Dr. Ljubić. [[APLAuz]] Thank you very much. I congratulate Dr Ljubić once again, welcome to the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples and by your oath you have made a commitment, and from today, after your oath and signature, you are doing your job as fully as we have come just before you. We're moving on now, here's to Mr. Ljubić receiving congratulations from the Serbian Club, the Federation did. I welcome Mr Belkić, president of the House of Representatives who joined our work. We now move to the agenda of the 32nd session, for which the following is proposed
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5050	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present colleagues, welcome the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, guests. I received two answers to two questions at the previous session, at a session of 29. 5. The first is the data: 'Is there more than 3,000 prison convicts in BiH waiting to be punished for lack of accommodation facilities, and what is the justice ministry doing about solving this problem?' 5 The answer I received from the Justice Ministry contains accurate data, in terms of the existing situation where it is found that on the basis of the data collected, it has been found that in the territory of the Federation of BiH 1,205 convicted persons are waiting for the execution of the prison sentence, and that only those convicted on the basis of the judgments of the Federation of BiH and the Court of Justice of Brcko District of BiH. So the question had a basis. What is being taken at the level of BiH in terms of accommodation facilities, I think that measures that are really necessary and urgent and necessary. These existing measures, which the Ministry of Justice is currently taking in terms of building a state prison capacity of over 340 places, and entity ministries in terms of capacity building in Banja Luka, the KPZ in Foca, and in some other places, above all in Bijeljina, in terms of building a new prison facility capacity of 150 persons and in the Federation, in Busovaca, or Orasja and Kozluk, I think that the measures that will make a significant contribution to resolving this issue, but still insufficient, and therefore I propose that the Ministry of Justice, in terms of all that is stated in this response, take even more important steps to address this issue. The second question... that I asked at this session of the previous one was: "When will the BiH Council of Ministers agenda find the draft law on the Fund for the Fair Compensation of the Destroyed Assets in the War in BiH?" I got an answer that, in most parts, I'm happy with, and I think we're at the last session when we discussed this strategy, the revised strategy for the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Accords, we had one such answer, so that we could discuss a very different strategy that was on the agenda at the time. This is where aneks vii. was established. Dayton Peace Agreement: 'Article 1. All refugees and displaced persons shall have the right to return the property that has been seized from them during their hostilities since 1991 and to compensate for assets that cannot be returned to them; Article 11. Requests for immovable property of BiH can be submitted for the return of property or for a fair compensation instead of repayment; Article 12. Anyone seeking compensation instead of reimbursements, which the Commission finds to be the legal owner of that property, shall be granted a fair compensation to be determined by the Commission's and Article 14. Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which reads: 'The Property Fund for Refugees and Displaced Persons will be established at the Central Bank of BiH, which will be managed by the Commission for Displaced Persons and Refugees' (the establishment of the Property Fund for Refugees and Displaced Persons). Not to read any further, the answer I got, I say, in most parts I'm really happy with. If we had such an answer at the previous session, I think we would have discussed and discussed and accepted those proposals that we... from the order of the Serbian people suggested that the revised strategy be complemented by the right to compensation. In this way, they would open up the possibility that everyone displaced and avoided the person, in an acceptable way, would choose the place of life and the means of the compensation for the damage he suffered on the housing unit to resolve his rights. Of course this model needs to be worked out. First, well record the situation and needs, and then make it possible to draw up regulations and action plans to resolve it. In this response, therefore, there are certain suggestions and certain thinking in what sense we could, by supplementing the proposed strategy, at one of our next sessions, simply find a way out for what 6 of us were in a situation in the last session that we could not accept such a strategy as proposed by the Council of Ministers. So I say, I accept both the answer but I propose to the Joint College and the College of the House of Nations that, in terms of this response that we have received regarding the implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement has simply tried to take an additional step to adopt this strategy with the proposed amendments, precisely in terms of this response that we received from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5051	Thank you very much. I do not think it will be necessary for both colleges to deal with this because we, at the previous Joint Joint Committee/Committee of both homes, have commissioned the Council of Ministers to put the revised strategy back into parliamentary procedure and I believe that it will have in mind and give the answers that you have received when it comes to parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5052	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, all present, I have received the answer to the question asked. Basically, I got what I expected. I did not even aim to get an exclusive answer to this question, because I wanted to problem what is called the BiH military diplomatic representations in the important, let's say, cities or those countries because it mainly decides on our future path to both the EU and NATO. And it's a good thing that the answer to that plan was, in itself, a problem of what I wanted, because it wasn't just a problem, the cause was Berlin, but the essence of the question was non-resolvement, the general non-resolvement of this problem from Washington through Vienna, NATO mission in Brussels, etc. Anyway, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5053	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrn. We're moving on to new questions. doktor Ivanić, then Adem Ibrahimpašić, then Šaraba, and we will record the order of the announcements further. Here you go, Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5054	Thank you very much. It is known that BiH has concluded an agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which has given significant financial resources to BiH authorities and should be made known this year. At the same time, various levels of government were obliged to reduce budget levels, with seven rebalancing down. The most difficult situation regarding budgeting is in municipalities. And there's a level of budgeting from the municipality to the municipality from 65% to 70% and some in less. My question to the Ministry of Finance is: 'Since the budgets have been cut, and additional funding has been provided that was not planned at all at the beginning of the year, which means that the budgets have more space than they have so far, are the funds provided for in these talks to support municipal budgets and, if not, for which purposes will the funds achieved by the IMF be used?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5055	Thank you very much, Dr. Ivanic. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5056	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. I referred the question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade, but I will also direct it to the representative of the European Commission in BiH, Mr Dimitris Kurkulas, OHR and the ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to BiH. Question: "Why does Croatia interfere with exporting this product to their partners in Croatia, with which they have signed contracts on the production and delivery of barley?" In particular, it is about partners from Nova Gradiška, a agricultural and food complex, i.e. "Slavonia malt" from Nova Gradiška. Obstruction is manifested by the denial of the issue or the untimely issue a year ago of import licences introduced for barley into Croatia. So, the harvest doesn't ask when and if that barley on the trucks will stop, the harvest is suspended and there will be great damage, and it's CEFTA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5057	Thank you very much, Mr Ibrahimpašić. Mr. Šaraba, please move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5058	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, esteemed gentlemen, therefore, I would first like to express my dissatisfaction because in the Council of Ministers, I have several parliamentary questions waiting for an answer and I ask at least to be answered that I cannot get an answer, because some of these questions are waiting for more than half a year. And my next parliamentary question is very brief. I direct him to the Ministry of Security and Resort Minister and it reads: 8 "When will the Ministry of Security and Resort Minister, since he is in charge, set up a liaison officer at the Central Bureau of Interpol in the main office of Lyon?" I do not think that any particular explanation for this issue is necessary, since it is a strong and significant place and since it is one of the places that is not filled by BiH institutions and, certainly, its fulfillment will allow certain tasks, which are in the jurisdiction of this officer, to be performed both better and better and quality than they are now, in particular what seems to me, we have a situation that certain jobs, which are to be done by this officer, are performed by other persons without any consent and without approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5059	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5060	Dear colleagues, I have for the third time been troubled by a problem called CEMT licenses. I'm glad I'm having this problem the third time that the former minister is here with us and I'm even more pleased that our former colleague is a new minister, whom I deeply believe won't wait long for my answer. So, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at a session of 29. 1st unanimously reached the following conclusion: 'The people's home asks the Ministry of Transport and Communications to deliver within 15 days to the House full information on criteria, procedures and how to distribute CEMT permits for 2009 to domestic carriers. The information should include the number and reasons of the complaint of the carrier, as well as the appeal procedures under way.’ The first emergency for the delivery of that information came in April of this year, but I didn't get an answer. Therefore, since that deadline, when this question has been asked, six months have passed, I ask the Council of Ministers Chairman to allow, through the Ministry of Transport and Communications, full information on the criteria, procedures and method of distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 to domestic carriers. I expect an answer in the short run. I would like to thank the Minister in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5061	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. I've got a exhausted list of people reported. Is that all for today? I'm closing this agenda. Moving to point 2. 9 Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 31st session You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'll put it on the record for the 31st session. Who is “for” the proposed record? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the minutes of the 31st session of the House of Peoples. Point 3 is Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5066	I have no need, you have here all the report from the Committee's session, a proposal from the Commission and set yourself up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5067	Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces in the second reading. Who's "for"? All unanimous. So there are no votes "against", no "abstained". We're moving on to item six of our agenda, that's ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH It's about another reading. You've reached the report. The Commission accepted this report with one amendment, adopted the draft law with one amendment. I'm also asking President Branko Zrn if he has any needs. Here you go. So there's no need. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5069	I am obliged to say a few words concerning both the Joint Commission's report and our position. So, as can be seen from the Joint Defence and Security Commission Report, the amendments in this second amendment phase were submitted by Šefik Džaferović, one amendment, Hazim Rančić, who did not invest within the prescribed deadline, and I, Dušanka Majkić, meant seven amendments. During the vote, so we unanimously supported the amendment Mr. Džaferović submitted. And of the seven amendments I have submitted, none are supported. I mean, and I'm obliged to say that the three amendments were acceptable to the Ministry, which, according to us, would improve. Since we do not have the opportunity to pass any of our amendments, I would like to inform the House that we will vote against this law. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5070	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5071	Well, I think we should do everything we can to get this law to agree, if at all possible, that we shouldn't bring it down right now at this stage. I would also ask the Joint Commission to see or delegates whether we can once again return to this commission, try to reach some agreement, especially if some of these amendments, which Mrs. Majkić mentions, are acceptable to the Ministry and if they do not endanger the content and essence of the agreement, I think we should try to make some kind of agreement to come out and adopt the law, because I think that would be very significant. Here, I would ask all the delegates and presidents of the Commission to tell me if there is any possibility? If necessary, I could also ask the club president, if he will respect me, even though I am the opposition, to take a little break and try to reach some kind of agreement, because it would be very important, in my opinion, for this law to be passed. And I think there's very little missing to make and that we're not going formally into decision-making.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5072	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Dr. Ivanic. We can try to get out of this situation. I would ask the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, Mr Zrn, to show himself about this proposal by Dr Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5073	I absolutely support what my colleague Ivanić said and the shame is that this law ends here at our home. It seems to me that from principled or unprincipled, it doesn't matter now, the reasons for the amendments and coming and going and not passing. I mean, it's not, but if there is, and there is an exit, return to the Joint Commission this law and try to agree at the level of the already proposed amendments, agree to the final proposal text and return it to our home.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5074	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5075	It would be best if it could come out like that, is there a practical problem, the law ended the second-reading vote in the House of Peoples and there in the House of Representatives and he passed there because there were not enough Serbian votes "against". So there weren't enough physical people present at the session. What it will mean if we make such a decision to make a concession, at least in 13 of these three amendments, to show good faith that we have the opportunity to influence laws at all. If our club has no chance of correcting, no amendment to adopt ours, then what's the point? Is that supposed to mean we're thinking next time: yeah, that's Jaferovic's amendment and we'll vote against him! So that's not the principle we're handling, we're looking at what the amendment is like. Although these... three amendments were acceptable to the Ministry, there was really no reason why... they would not be accepted. So, what happens now if we put them back on the Joint Commission? So, there's already a House of Representatives done the job, and we're going to have an agreement and again by some members of the House of Representatives... it's going to end the same way, so here's what we can do if there's a good will at least to show that we're ready for each other's concessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5076	Thank you very much. We also heard Mrs. Majkić. I'm not denying anyone the right to say anything about this to get out of the situation. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5077	I mean, we're, like, six times back from the State Border Control Act. I mean, if we have a home, and we have this business opportunity to get back to the commission...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5078	The House's decision is above the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5079	Of course. So, to return it to this committee, to agree and to accept it or, if we already have a formed position that we will not accept these amendments, it is indeed without any need to return it to this commission. It's just watering and seducing people, like we did with that law. Then let's go break the law today and finish the story. Let it go back to the procedure, although I believe there is a possibility that two or three amendments that are here and that after that, I don't think there should be any trouble in agreeing. That's what I personally think, because there really is nothing in this law, my people, debateable and nothing questionable. This isn't one of the so-called. Risk laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5080	Thank you very much. I will conclude just like this, self-critically, on behalf of our home, it is a characteristic of the Parliamentary Assembly, so we are not adorned by some large amount of adopted laws in the Parliamentary Assembly, and it would be a shame if we are at home to lose this law. I'm here to try to find a solution again. It's never a problem for the Srbin klub to stop some law. Whenever this passes the House of Representatives, they have two levers and can use 14 of each other, we are aware of it, but let's try to find a solution. If someone has to give up on those who are not acceptable, they may be able to find some kind of, not rigid, sort of... determination and about the amendments themselves, perhaps by redefining and reaching some acceptable solution as Mr Ivanic spoke of. I would ask, therefore, if there is anyone else to answer; if not, to accept this suggestion and return, to postpone the decision in the second reading at today's session until another attempt to find a solution on the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Who is "for" this solution? So, let's get the Joint Commission back on board... once again. Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? One vote “against ” and 14“ for. ” I find that we have returned,...please, without dialogue form, that we have returned the Joint Defence and Security Committee to the re-determination of the controversial amendments that prevent us from adopting this law today. Let's go to point seven, point seven is Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language in BiH (first reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives The proposer is the House of Representatives who accepted the bill in the first reading. We don't have Mr. Belkić here, don't stop us from opening the debate if he has a relevant commission. Mr. Jović, please. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5082	: Dear Mr. Chairman, co-chairs, esteemed colleagues and all guests today who are present at this meeting of our House of People, very briefly. There is one before us, I would say, the law that includes us and the foundation of it among the EU countries that are recognizable by the fact that they want and want to have and bring, in fact, bring and have laws that are in line with the needs of man. That's why I'm glad this one short, I'd say, and not so extensive and broad a law came to our benches. I would appeal to my colleagues to accept it in this form in which it is, so that we can enable people who are deaf and deaf to be involved in everyday life and work, whether in their jobs, whether in the needs of life and work in the private part, because this is the law from that set that contributes to non-discrimination and contributes to the information of the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5083	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. 15 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5084	If I can just make it up to you. And associations organised for deaf and deaf people in BiH, with whom I am in contact, are very pleased with what this solution offers, and I hope that we will do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5085	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5086	So, really BiH should be proud to get one of these laws. So we have seen that this is a small law, contained in only 26 members, which enables one of the significant human rights to be fulfilled, it is the right to inform deaf people on them with customized techniques. We have seen that in the world, in different countries, this problem is solved in different ways, that the problem is standardised, that it has been done to make it possible to inform deaf people and that BiH itself had to do something in this field because we have noticed that in television shows, and often in courts, geist language interpreters, who do not have an adequate certificate that would allow them to do so in a quality way. By introducing, or adopting this law, the most important thing is that gesture language interpreters will have to possess this certificate and be entered in the register to be led by the Ministry of Justice. I think the first dictionary will come out soon, I think, in Banja Luka, to prepare the first dictionary. And it is interesting to note that deaf people do not know three languages in BiH, they say it is the language they speak, so the first dictionary will be called the Gestual Language Dictionary, our gesture language. It will soon come out and will also influence a certain part of the problem from this area being standardised, and thus increasing the number of interpreters of this speech language that will allow... to be employed in courts, on television and allow adequate information of deaf and deaf persons, so that I think it is a good thing that we get this law and that we adopt this law and that its principles should now be supported. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5087	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? So we're talking about principles. I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the proposal for a law on the use of sign language in BiH, in the first reading. Who is "for" the bill on the use of sign language? Mr Ibrahimpašić, are you up to this bill? I find that we unanimously, with 14 votes, have accepted, because one representative is out of the question. Moving to point 8. 16 Ad. 8. Annual Security and Intelligence Policy Platform – applicant: BiH Presidency The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Platform with the proposed add-on, which is one amendment to the Joint Commission. What's the matter, I'd like to ask you to bring us into the story of Mr. Božo Rajić. There you go, Božo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5089	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I am in charge, as the first deputy chairman of the Joint Committee for Supervisory of the Security and Security Agency of BiH, to report on the reasons for the adoption of a small, short-term amendment-shaped intervention on this Annual Platform and to point to several elements of our dissatisfaction on the Joint Committee, expressed in front of the behaviour of the legal and constitutional holders of the procedure for the adoption of this platform. Namely, as in earlier years, it has been shown that there are three entities involved in the process of adopting the Annual Platform on Security and Intelligence Policy, so the initiator, the initiator of the Council of Ministers' Initiative, the BiH Presidency approves the Annual Platform, and adopts the BiH Parliament in both homes. And, like earlier years, no legal deadline has been respected, because this platform must be adopted by 1 November of next year. And we got this to consider half of the current year, which not only represents a derogation from the law of prescribed deadlines but seriously challenges the implementation of the primary tasks of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. We hope that in the third year of our intervention, according to this capital document, all BiH citizens will have their obligations and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers will launch their activities in time and offer us this platform within the legal deadline for 2010. As already mentioned by the chairman, the House of Representatives accepted an amendment relating to Chapter III. The terrorism and radical action, subtitled Radical Action, where two points are placed behind the word 'on' in the third row, and it comes first to 'work against the state of BiH', because on the Joint Commission we have assessed that the first place is to threaten and fight and threaten BiH's interests, and then citizens come, institutions come, etc., as already mentioned in the text. For these reasons, regardless of the important delay, we call on this House to accept the Annual Platform with this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5090	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. 17 Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the Annual Platform with the accepted amendment as set out in the Report and accepted by the House of Representatives. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that, unanimously, with 14 votes "yes" (so much is present in the hall) we have accepted the Annual Platform on Security and Intelligence Policy in BiH. And we're going to point 9, that's ad. Nine. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2008 I am very pleased to welcome BiH's chief prosecutor, Mr. Milorad Barašin, who will monitor our debate and be of assistance if it is necessary for MPs. The House of Representatives discussed this information and received this information. As the relevant Constitutional Commission, I ask the Chairman if he has a need... There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5092	In accordance with the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office delivers the report to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and provides the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the work. I can tell you that this information... from the point of view of its comprehensibility, in order to understand it correctly, I had to use that part of the material that the D.A. sent to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. There it was much more neat, much more precise, much clearer, and this material that came into the Parliamentary Assembly would need an interpreter for the individual tables the prosecution had set up. I was wondering for a moment... since there are no comments that would explain the individual tables, I was wondering if that material should also serve to be understood or not understood. I watched a little bit from the point of view of the approved 2008 budget and saw that the D.A. had an understanding of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which gave him practically more than he asked for. And budget execution is 86%. It will be less understandable in that part when we start considering next year, that is, when we ask why the budget for next year is not approved in the requested amount, because that is probably the principle that applies to everyone, if you get the funds that you don't plan well, then it's logical that next time you get less, so you'll try to make better plans so you can get as much money as you need. 18 Now, a few data that... manifests the state of the D.A.'s office like this. During 2008, 26 domestic and 10 international judges were involved in the BiH Prosecutor's Office's proceedings. It would be very interesting if I could see in this review how many cases have been processed or processed by domestic judges, and how many of them by foreign judges, because it is about the place where our thoughts on the efficiency of foreign judges are clashed and the need for an extension of their mandate, which is publicly expressed by the chief prosecutor and the president of the BiH Court of Justice. In the case of criminal charges, a total of 1,342 criminal charges were in the paper during 2008, of which 698 were transferred from earlier years and 644 received in 2008. So, a large number of criminal charges, with the emphasis that 468 applications or 33% were completely resolved in 2008. The D.A.'s efficiency is 33%. 874 applications were submitted to work in 2009. It's data that says enough that nothing in particular needs to be interpreted. So, only the BiH Prosecutor's Office states that in 2008, it will continue with the trend of increasing the number of pending cases, so that we do not find it unusual when we adopt the report next year. As far as the investigation is concerned, during 2008, the D.A. ordered 285 investigations, with a total of 795 and a total of 257. So the 538 investigation has not been resolved. As far as the charges are concerned, the total number of charges brought is 176. Of these 170 were raised in 2008 and 6 raised in the previous period: 89 total confirmed for 2008 and 2007, and unsolved charges, meaning, dating from these two years. The prosecution's work has recently been very closely monitored; according to some media reports in BiH, more than 90% of the indictments have been dropped, which is in favour of the prosecutor's poor work. Every year, here we are, and this second home, working within the Finance Commission and the budget analysis of the audit reports. For five years, I have been in Parliament, and in those five years, I have not heard that the prosecution has filed charges in any case, and there have been cases that could have been made in favour of the irresponsible availability of public money. So, all these reports that go to the D.A. remain unresponsive and it is unclear, regardless of our understanding, that the audit reports are not forensic reports, we expected that at least the D.A. could have done so much and said for so many years, the Parliamentary Assembly, or the review, should have done so and so that the audit reports could be accepted and that the prosecution could work on them. So, there's not a word, these reports aren't good, so we can't work on it, these reports should be added to it, and we should do it and we can work on it. So, no attitude, no movement, never for any offense for the five years I've been in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. There have been very difficult charges against the prosecution's work in the sense that both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office are under the direct influence of the AIDS Paraintelligence Service, as there is no one to launch a dispute in the war crimes cases committed by members of the BiH Army. It was even said that certain items and certain witnesses were hidden so that the part of the truth would not be made public. There is something that, perhaps, has the greatest importance in all of this, which is that the institutions of the judiciary, by many, bear the greatest responsibility for bad international relations, and this speaks in favor: if the processing of war crimes, everyone should respond, it is a famous story, but if mainly the representatives of the Serbian people are being processed, then it cannot speak of... good international relations which the prosecution solidly cooks. I ask, I mean often, the question is, what's 19 about the Dudaković indictment? It is a question that Srbin have often asked, but never received an answer. There is one more thing that has been shown lately, and that is that the poor work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH makes other countries' institutions run processes because they do not process them. So we know the story of the Voluntary and Tuzlane Colony. Finally, it's hard for the D.A. to defend two things. The first is: that's their independence that they're talking about, and when it comes to taking a look at the strategy for staying foreign prosecutors, made by the prosecution, and seeing who decides on their independence, so whether it's OHR, or the OHR Legal Department,... if it's donors, who they really are... from whom they are independent. And another thing I can hardly defend: the issue of staying foreign prosecutors. It is known that there is an agreement on the transition of the judicial system signed by the former High Representative and Mr Tihić when he was a member of the presidency. It said... foreign judges and prosecutors can't be on the posts they've been appointed to for more than five years, that's 2009. And then I look at the part that explains why it is necessary to extend the mandate to foreign prosecutors and judges and then says that they should convey their knowledge and experience to the domestics. And then we come back again who are domestic, who are foreign prosecutors and judges, and then we see again the story we talked about here: about Prosecutor Hari Furlan, who came after the affair in Slovenia and became prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and conducted the procedure in the same way he ran from in Slovenia from whom he fled to BiH. Countless mistakes have been made by the international community in this country. But one of the greatest reforms of the judiciary is that it will certainly leave the deepest mark. This remained the unfulfilled desire of Mr Pedi Ešdaun for the judiciary to be reformed and to be approximately in line with how it should be in highly developed countries. I liked the statement by Džefri Naisa, who recently said that the BiH Court is a hybrid institution. I think hybrid institutions are all the ones where judges and prosecutors are strangers. According to the information we found: the salaries of judges and prosecutors range from 10,000 to 30,000 foreign marks and domestics are 4,000. And legally completed cases: out of 52 cases, only 10 indictments are filed by foreigners, and domestic 42. We are wondering where the responsibility is, and where is the quality spoken of when trying to explain that foreign prosecutors should stay in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5093	We've already broken time, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5094	Here I go. The chief prosecutor has also made a strategic plan that I have also said for the further involvement of international prosecutors, and he says, "The Special War Crimes Department needs four international prosecutors, four international legal associates." So legal associates should also be foreigners, four international investigators and four international trainees. We will no longer receive any trainees from this country. We'll bring interns from abroad. Four international prosecutors, two investigators, etc. 20 What do I want to say in the end? So, the sentence that ends the strategy says: "The BiH Prosecutor General will immediately take the steps to maintain foreign judges and prosecutors after obtaining an opinion on the strategy with the registrar and the deputy chief prosecutor as well as after certain meetings with donors and representatives of the OHR." So that's the independence we've been talking about and I suggest not to accept this information about the prosecution's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5095	Thank you very much. You've been through exactly four minutes. Because you're a lady, I didn't mean to interrupt. Mr. Tihić, in order, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5096	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to discuss it, but here, in a way, Mrs. Majkić's discussion asked me to say a few words. It is known that she gives qualifications without arguments. You know, and what's been said today, I wouldn't comment, but I have to point out this one incorrect assumption that in time, Tihić signed this agreement with Ešdaun on the introduction of foreign judges and prosecutors, I don't know what. Sulejman Tihić was then chairman of the presidency but signed this agreement on the basis of a presidency decision involving all members of the presidency, not that... something personal I did. And I don't think it's a good idea for us here at this home in any way to have a negative impact on the work of the D.A., on their professional relationship. We need to create conditions that law enforcement institutions can do their job under the Constitution, based on the law. I think that the Prosecutor's Office and the Court, in addition to certain remarks that certainly exist, which they are doing over time and period, because we are building these institutions, these processes are under way – we need them to enable them to work and yet to achieve good results. I wish there were more cases that could be done both when it comes to organised crime and when it comes to war crimes. However, it is obvious that many complex objects are involved and that it is not easy to increase that number to the extent of the inflow, or it is difficult to reduce these gaps. But since we are in the construction phase, strengthening these institutions, we need the help of international judges and prosecutors. I don't know why anyone would have any reason to suspect the bias, objectivity and professionalism of international judges. International judges and prosecutors need the same as the international community has always needed in this process and after the Dayton Agreement, the process of integration of this state, the arrangements of everything else: The Court and the Prosecutor's Office are one of the upgrades that are very important for law enforcement, for the achievement of all those objectives that make the courts exist. We may not even be fully satisfied, perhaps someone expects more from the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, but it is not the Supreme Court, it is not the BiH Prosecutor's Office that could be doing those jobs that the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office are doing in all countries. I hope that sometimes the time will come for us to have these courts soon, but these are both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and we should give support if we are committed, and I think we are committed to fighting organised crime, to combating war criminals, and we do not need to look at the nationality why... such 21 structure is ethnic. That could be more reason why we have, I wouldn't be going in now, because there would be some other political debates and controversy right now, why there are more one and fewer others, etc. Let's let these people work, that's one tough job. You know, they're, they're, they're exposed to various statements by some, so let's take some irresponsible ones, so to speak, politicians or once in the media or by various individuals, but we as Parliament have to be serious here, we have to be responsible. We have to work and do everything we can to keep these institutions in line with the Constitution and the law. We need to create conditions so that they can do it in such a way, with all the things that courts and prosecutors sometimes do wrong. We sometimes see that there are acquittals, you know, and there are other states of acquittals in large cases, so it's no wonder it's in BiH. They will certainly work hard and try to make it as small as possible, so that as few individuals as possible who will be brought to court, their personal and social reputation will eventually be freed. But let's not question the support of these individual cases for the work of these institutions. I would support the conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives: that we receive information, as they have said, to the knowledge, and has a High Court and Prosecutorial Council that will now go to that analysis, I don't know you, that expert section that should possibly make any remarks and something else points out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5097	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. We've got five other people on the table. Please respect Article 63. The Rules of Procedure, which says, no longer than 10 minutes -- let's frame ourselves at that time. Next up is Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5098	Thank you, Chairman. I have carefully read the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and, behold, I cannot agree with Mrs. Majkić that the information cannot be understood. I also think that these tables are quite transparent regarding the work of all three departments in the D.A., which is the Department of War Crimes, the Department of Organized Crime and Corruption and, thirdly, the Department of International Legal Assistance and other forms of crime and all other crimes. I don't know where Mrs. Majkić read that 90% of the BiH court rulings are liberating. I couldn't see it from this report. Most of the charges, true, have been filed in this third department, which includes this general crime. So that's logical, that's where these slightly easier crimes come in and most logically these procedures end faster, and the prosecutor in these cases for a shorter period of time can press charges. And here I see that there were 118 indictments, that's on page 26, of which there are 95 convictions, and only four liberating. In these other two departments, it's the Department of War Crimes and the Department of Organized Crime, we've had fewer indictments which are logical, because in the Department of War Crimes, not one investigation, I don't think can be completed in a year, especially because there's a lot of witnesses. The prosecutor stated in the Information that some of the witnesses are uninterested in the testimony, that they are inaccessible to 22 law enforcement authorities, do not want to report to the Court, are located on the territory of other states. Another thing is that often war crimes suspects are inaccessible to law enforcement authorities because they have the citizenship of neighbouring states and are located on the territory of those states, and we know that the indictment cannot be brought up until the suspect is heard. It's a newspaper in our criminal law. By 2003, we had the possibility of a trial in absentia. We are, I think, one of the countries in Europe, rare countries in Europe, which respects the principle of the suspect's presence in criminal proceedings. So there's no charge without the suspect's presence. You also know that the UN tribunal is accusing people of not even listening to them. So BiH is a country that can't accuse anyone until it hears it, and that's why we have in the War Crimes Department a relatively small number of indictments and in the Organized Crime Department which is very, by structure, a delicate crime and requires extensive investigation. And that's why I think the D.A.'s report is very good. Ms. Majkić made a lapus, she said there are 26 domestic and 10 international judges in the prosecution, and there are no judges in the prosecution, prosecutors are in the prosecution. I believe it's a lapus, because you know the work of this institution. But what concerns me is the absence, and that's what the prosecutor said in his report, quality records of war crimes cases. So we have a situation that by 2003 we had the processing of war crimes at all levels in BiH. We had formerly the main prosecutors in the RS, the Federation district prosecutors, and now we only have the cantonal and county, the Federation cantonal, the RS district, and we have the RS prosecutor's office, the Brcko District and the Federal Prosecutor's Office. So, we don't have quality records on the processing of war crimes, and I'm worried about that, and I think that at the level of BiH, such records must be established. I am concerned about the unsatisfactory degree of co-operation at regional level when it comes to the processing of war crimes. Here, we now have these parallel investigations in neighbouring countries, we have parallel processing, and I think that here, as a state, we need more political and international co-operation to make sure that no parallel investigations are conducted, because this is expensive for all countries in the region, and I think we need to respect the principle of local jurisdiction, the principle of the crime scene as the primary principle in the processing of war crimes. And here, I think it's very important, and the prosecutor said it in his report that you don't have any quality norms, that you haven't yet set up working norms. Whoever dealt with it, who worked in the judiciary knows that every prosecutor against certain norms needs to file so many charges in one month, every judge to make so many judgments and, of course, whether the acquittals are one minus in his career and they need to be evaluated by the relevant institutions, and I mean, in particular, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I have analyzed this report of yours, in light of a report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council which is an independent institution, and I think BiH has gone far ahead of the countries in the region. I would also like to give a brief look at international judges and prosecutors in BiH. Who had the opportunity to see an article by esteemed professor Miodrag Simović, who is also the judge of the BiH Constitutional Court and professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law in Banja Luka, in his article, concerning the development of an impartial and independent judiciary, says that the existence of international judges and prosecutors during this transition period should contribute to the creation of an independent and impartial judiciary. And I think it's something that will eventually be the past in BiH, 23, but at the moment I think they certainly allow courts and prosecutors to work impartially and independently and be free of all political influences. And we, as Parliamentarians, are trying to free you from political influences so that you can do your job quality and professionally, and we are all certainly agreed that it is not easy to do this job and thank you for doing it in quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5099	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, of course – although we are authorized to take this kind of report to the knowledge, inform ourselves of them – this kind of report triggers discussions, to come to the surface of some thinking that can come from our heads, and can come from the tower, because every institution, especially the judicial ones in BiH, have its own perception and reception. Perception towards institutions, especially the judicial system, is not good and they are probably also aware of the gentleman in the prosecution. It is one of the parties in the process, as it is often identified, unfortunately, it is often done with The Hague court to identify the prosecution and the court, which is completely wrong. The court is the Supreme Court of Judges, and the prosecutor is one party to the dispute, the defence, or the defendant to another, and we should once resolve the issue and realize that it is the prosecutor's job to find evidence to accuse those who have committed serious crimes, and that the court is there to assess it all, and the defense to defend itself, to prove that it is not guilty. However, perception is so and we should not run away from it and I hope that most of it until the debate, it was likely so at the House of Representatives, will speak in good faith, in order to help the prosecution as an institution of special importance for BiH and its citizens to do their job with as little objection as possible. And I will immediately be manifested, therefore also as a representative and as a member of the HDZ 1990 party, we absolutely support the further stay of both judges and prosecutors, international judges and prosecutors, as well as the institution of the international community here operating in BiH, helping, because we are deeply convinced that without the adoption of a new constitution, a complete, comprehensive constitution, without legal certainty, without changing our behaviour, we cannot be sure of what the institutions of the judiciary would do only in the composition of the domestic forces. So that's why we don't have doubts, we haven't even had it, until we're able, until we get a state that's a regulated legal, constitutional order, so far we need good help from international factors, and that's how we experience and respect it. So, we essentially support the prosecution's work as a very important link in the BiH judicial system and what we notice, what we want to say publicly is in good interest to remove, under such thinking, some objections that may be partly justified, and perhaps partly pre-relianced from a subjective experience. In this country, BiH, everything is complicated, everything is difficult, especially after the war and it must be taken care of that no matter how we cannot make a criterion in equal..., if not the perpetrators... the perpetrators of the most difficult works, then the victims should be – according to nationality should be treated equally. He objects that it's not exactly like that. Every time he's here, he's got it. I would not engage in the quantification or qualification of these objections as far as they are founded, but any victim, especially the one who died in the war, would also have to be treated in the conduct of domestic justice. 24 Of course it would be good if we got the data here. I expect that the judiciary can make additional efforts to act balancedly, to make it nationalally balanced in relation to the victim, not to the perpetrator, and to rank acts in some order of production, not necessarily, but it would be normal to first process what happened in 1992 and not 2007. Well, good. It doesn't have to be a rule, but it's such a logical requirement to try to follow some order in all of this. I haven't noticed, I'm not saying that I've seen well, the data on the personnel structure haven't had as much data as the personnel structure, according to its qualifications, meets the complex demands of this job and I'd be glad to have data on the national composition of all the employees in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because there are always complaints, there are arbitrary interpretations that it's like this anyway, and I won't say it's like this either, but the information would be complete if it had that information. There is an impression in the public that the charges of organised crime, particularly for the abuse of the position of power, are very superficially declared in public and that such disputes are often lost. I don't know, I didn't look at the data that Mrs. Čolo was talking about, but the preparation of charges for such acts would probably be in the function of preventing these acts, because the public is spreading a bit of a feeling, you know what, that's the indictment that will come and that in a month or two, three, people will be freed, because organised crime in BiH today, along with these measures of economic crisis, must have passed one of the greatest dangers in the future. All in all, I will conclude my review – so absolutely, again in good faith – to work: to support the work of the Prosecutor's Office, to support its staff, its staff and education, and as a member of Parliament, I will always advocate that, regardless of being directly competent,... we have our tasks High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to ensure the material and financial assumptions for the work of this body, and I hope that next year we will have a report that will be much more satisfying than we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5101	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5102	: I see we don't have any quorum from the Bošnjak order, I don't know if we can continue. _________(?) It's a discussion. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5103	You've seen it well, the quorum is three plus three plus three. We'll call someone, and you can stop with your debate. We'll be patient. I think two phone calls outside are important. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5104	Good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5105	Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the beginning of the opening of this point, I was appointed president of the Constitutional Commission that discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5107	No, you're in charge of the discussion. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5108	No, no, that's right, I want to explain that, so I thank you for that, for understanding. As chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I didn't have it, because we said it in our report, and now I'm reporting as a member of this house and we have a report in front of us, a report on the prosecution's work. I also had some views at the meeting and at the session of our Constitutional Commission and that this is the time and opportunity to say about them, mainly when it comes to what happened this calendar year and what happened in this home and on my part is certain questions asked to this institution. I'll remind you. At least two of the questions I asked were about the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that of that war crimes department. I am very excited or irritated or discouraged by a sentence I read here that "the BiH Prosecutor's Office can highlight the successful work done to process war crimes cases which has been largely achieved thanks to continued and successful co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia." Why has that been making me sad for years? And at least twice I went to The Hague to point out to the people there that what they're doing was not good. And what's wrong with that? Yes, none, but not a single crime committed against Hrvat in BiH has been prosecuted! And it seems to me that it has been passed on to this BiH Prosecution. In this country, I say for a hundred times, 43% is missing from one nation. Thousands of killed and expelled, and no one is to blame. That's why I don't agree with my distinguished colleague Rajić that things are important for us to change the Constitution. I am just afraid that, based on the work of The Hague and the domestic prosecutor's office, there will be no further process of BiH's future based on such bad judgments, poor procedures and bad solutions. 26 It is not good and the usual judgments to comment even in this high house, but I will remind only one thing. Just a few months ago, we had a situation that for war crimes in one camp, where no deaths were processed, a group that was responsible for the camp, and it comes from the order of the Croatian people – they got 80 years in prison. And I wouldn't allow myself to comment either, but on that same day and the same hour if it wasn't a group that was responsible for 13 concentration camps in Bugojn, you know you heard well with the prefix of concentration camps, of which the stadium most notorious, where selected intellectuals Hrvat were taken in an unknown direction, and registered at the International Red Cross – they are the same outside released from the Court and home, and the result is fear of Hrvat, leaving and moving even threats to witnesses. And I made it public and in a meeting, and I can explain it, I told the prosecutor. Why and why are two different approaches to such difficult things, and what are the answers to the future of this country? I was also asking a question to the esteemed president of the D.A.'s office. For a year now, an investigation into the terrible crime in Uzdol has been completed, and the prosecutor - the case is with an international prosecutor - and I say here in front of this high house: there will be no indictments as Hrvat have been killed there. I also said that in this country, these hands, because I was in this situation, unfortunately, in such a situation that I would let the Egyptian general pick up 38 women and children of Križancev's villages, Croatian nationalities, Šantići, Buhina's houses, in 100 meters these villages, hundreds of people were killed but there are no, my people, no one reacts to what I'm saying. But I won't shut up. Why? Because I love this country. Because the right decisions of the court and the prosecution can build a future. And this kind of freak that has first and foremost shown the Hague Court, which I do not see in court, I'm afraid we will go to another extreme and it will not be good for the citizens or the peoples and for the future of this country. I apologize for being a little frustrated, but think about what I said and find the counterargument of my wrong thinking. And one at least deserves a case to be prosecuted. No, not one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5109	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5110	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. I particularly welcome Mr. Belkić, who is with us today from the House of Representatives, and especially Mr. Barašin as the chief prosecutor whose agenda is now on the agenda and which we are talking about. Let me go from what Mr. Tihić has addressed in his address. We can't have a negative impact on the prosecution's work. I wouldn't comment any further. Yeah, I totally agree with that. 27 However, here I am listening to some of the comments here at this session today, we are witnessing many reactions in the public, we are also witnessing the perceptions that Mr Rajić was also talking about when... these institutions are concerned, here is the prosecution, that I am not telling these others, I am not sure that there is no influence. He may not be here amongst us, and I believe he's not among us, but outside of those of us sitting here, in another, perhaps beyond this space, so I'm having a dilemma, and I'm not sure that this influence on the work of these institutions isn't. It's hard to prove, so, but I have a dilemma present. Furthermore, when we see statistical indicators that are inexorable when it comes to the work of the Prosecutor's Office and these other institutions, aware of what has been going on in these premises and what is happening today, means today and aware of many major reactions on the ground, the dissatisfaction of a huge number of people, then we come into a situation, look, when it comes to us, we were MPs or delegates or people who are more or less in politics, whether we should keep quiet or talk about it all. So if we talk, then it gets connotations to affect the work of these institutions. I have no intention here, but I can't say my position and my vision, so at the end and the remarks that I think are meant to mean that it's not something good and that it's not right when it comes to the work of these institutions. All of us, here we are, and many other institutions, people who work in other institutions, under one big bang and under one great observation of our public. Under such a big glass and surveillance, the prosecution is safe, meaning other institutions. So I'm asking Mr. Barašin to make sure that what we're saying doesn't get the wrong idea that this applies to him anymore, so I don't have that intention. I believe that's not what anyone was up to, but it means one look and seeing the whole thing that's going on. If we look at the BiH Prosecutor's Office's internal organisation, we see that there are three departments in the prosecution, as Mrs Alma said, and each of them is dealing with specific issues and problems that burden BiH to a lesser or greater extent. A number of issues and problems that are present and burden BiH are problems that burden all countries of the world, somewhere less. So we know that, and we're aware of that, too. Unfortunately, BiH is burdening one problem that does not burden other countries of the world, which is also the issue of war crimes, and is related to the latest unfortunate conflicts, meaning in BiH. The issue and problem of war crimes in BiH is important, meaning very complex and difficult, but we must recognise the extremely sensitive issue for BiH that must be answered, which must be answered. Last year, we also had information about the prosecution's work for 2007. Comments and views on the Information were different, as they are today. We see, a number of remarks were made publicly on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and on the methodology of the production of information, raised several questions concerning the processing, the verdicts on war crimes and the nationality of the accused, the processing, the judgments made. We can't get away from that statistic. Here's what Mr. Jović was talking about, and I want to mention it. We can't escape. When they held a discussion last year about the prosecution's work information, we got one material from the Civil Initiative Center that I have here today, which is related to the processing of war crimes. It is an NGO, of course, an organisation, so... and this material was several NGOs, it is a survey conducted among BiH citizens on the issue. The poll results are clear views and reactions are recognizable. Perception is 28 negative, as Mr Rajić said earlier, on the issue in public. We can't get away from that perception, or those attitudes, meaning the opinions of people ordinary. Today we are discussing the Office's work for 2008. Compared to the 2007 Information, which I also have here, there are certain differences in the number of cases in certain categories, but unfortunately the second issue that bothers us, which is the most painful and most sensitive – remains practically the same. Basically, in the work of the D.A., nothing has changed, regardless of all these open issues, regardless of all these reactions on the ground. All of us sitting in parliamentary and delegate chairs are witnesses and we know that both Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin died in the war in BiH. But obviously and unfortunately, we don't all want to say it, and we don't all want to admit it publicly that's the case. And you, gentlemen, in the Prosecutor's Office, here I will mention the Court, although the subject is not about the BiH Court, who you are from BiH, you know the same thing and do what you do in the way you do and the figures and names say how you do it. I'm not going to comment on it any further, so that's what he's saying. Foreign prosecutors and judges weren't here during the war. Someone was telling them, and they're probably talking today, what's been going on and how it's supposed to be sued, and probably how it's supposed to be tried. That's my opinion. Is it, I apologize for asking this question now, I have no intention of provoking you, nor anyone else, but here I will be free to ask this question: "Is it known to you gentlemen, and clear that you, your accusations, means by your work, should you contribute to the reconciliation of the people of BiH?" And the second question is, "Do you really think this is what you do?" If you think that's it, I think you're wrong about that. So you're not contributing to this process, which is very important for the functioning of this country. I'm that kind of persuasion. For a long time, I am not going to open a special story here that can be very dangerous, but I will still mention it in a certain way, but I do not want to comment on it further, which is that you are blaming one people with your work, that you are using your work to distort the image of conflicts in BiH, that you are creating a basis, which is very dangerous, meaning for the wrong and distorted history for a new time, etc., which can be very dangerous for this country. Why does it continue with this practice? You don't have to answer to me, but be sure that you or someone else in these institutions will have to answer thousands of people in the RS who cry for their dead, missing, means unhappy, the same way they cry for their crying in the Federation. So, the ones crying in the Federation, they're crying the same way in the RS. So when I say in the Federation, I mean the Bosniaks and I mean the Hrvat. So it's the same accident, it's the same tragedy, and everyone has the same right to seek one truth. I'm not going to talk about this problem any further, but what I said, when it comes to my position on this information right now, and it means my position and opinion on the prosecution's work, I think it's clear, because I've said enough. Let me just hold on to one more question for a little while, which is Section III, so within this Section III I see here, I read, that a special task force has been set up to fight terrorism and strengthen the ability to fight terrorism. I've read this part of this information, and I'm just going to comment on it for a little while. The anti-terrorism task force was established in 2004 and in this report I see nothing significant in their work except that they worked on tracking, detecting individuals, 29 groups, financial flows, etc., etc. It's very interesting that there's also a suspension of compensation here, so this task force for their work. Why did I mention this? Because I mentioned this earlier, because I didn't see them do anything special about this matter except what they were following, so I don't know what they were doing next. I'd be interested here, in this information on work when it comes to this task force, if they've stopped anything, if they've noticed anything to tell us. Is there any of that, means they followed, or they didn't? Here in Information, they didn't tell us either, but only that they were following. However, since we have been in a situation that we have had, to say in a situation that we have followed both the information and the reports of some other institutions and agencies that are also dealing with these issues and these problems, it means in BiH, there are certain indications in these negative phenomena. So there are certain indications about these negative phenomena, and since this is a task force, meaning in jurisdiction and formed under the prosecution, and I see that here under the direction of the prosecution, under the supervision of the Ministry of Security, I think there should be something more concrete about this matter in this information. I thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5111	Thank you very much. Just a small two, just to hold back, that all three constituent nations live in the Federation... that's one small grudge... and I think you've been overly apologizing to someone for your word. We have no weight, nor can anyone put a weight on our tongue in Parliament. The thought of a Parliamentarian is, she flies like a bird, so she's free. There's no verbal delinquency, and we can't have any prosecution, nor can there be a chief prosecutor who's listening to our debates and free of charge, and even this D.A.'s report, we can talk about it. I was free to say this, because in fact, very often we have to apologize to someone for our free thought. Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5112	It would be best, Mr. Chairman, if I gave up my discussion. Because a lot of things have been said already, so I'm just going to say a few sentences. I still thought we'd stay more attached to this report, but you said, absolutely agree, every story can be opened in Parliament and in Parliament we can discuss everything... So there's no topic that's taboo on the subject, and there's nothing that can't be mentioned. However, it seems to me that we have at least considered the information on work. Next, we don't say anything about her, as far as I know, we just take her in, because this isn't a report. I've been through, not as detailed as those who still have a profession, this information. In what she's offering, she's, I have to admit, no matter what's attached to her, she's in her own right. We can discuss the methodology of making, and we often talked about it. Information like this, whether she's good or not, we'll never agree that she's good or that she's totally bad because one thing's a little better and the other's a little worse information like this we understand. That's it. 30 However, this information actually offers what was done in 2008 and we can be satisfied with the done or dissatisfied, and everything else, I think, belongs to yet another sphere and asking questions and solving, in principle, solving certain problems. After all, we can also request the addition of existing information from the BiH Prosecutor's Office if we are dissatisfied with its width, its scope or vice versa, its lack of coverage and its content. So that's the possibility we have of... I think (I wouldn't go into stories here because we won't solve this problem) we can ask questions about foreign judges, foreign prosecutors, stories that are simply part of the system. We cannot resolve them here unconstitutionally in a parliamentary debate, although I say again, we have the right and we can, we can discuss everything, we can discuss absolutely everything. But I'm saying, where are the achievements of our debate and it seems to me that we're slightly and politically thinking differently and that's why I'd like to remain satisfied or dissatisfied with this information. So I'm saying, we need to accept this information as information. If we need it or if we can attach a request to supplement, to do and the time to do so, I am. And all that is mentioned outside this information can be the subject of another debate, can be the subject of future, hopefully, changes and changes in the complete system. And, when I read this information, then in constitutional circumstances, we can also spread the subject, the constitutional circumstances in which we live – then this information is extraordinary, and the work of the prosecution is also. I wouldn't go any further, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5113	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. The list of reported has been exhausted. I'm not closing the argument, I'm asking if there's anyone else. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5114	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We really had a chance to hear a lot when it came to Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work in 2008. I wouldn't repeat what we already had the chance to hear. At the meeting of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples, which we had ten days ago, I also asked certain questions to Mr Barašin, which I received partial and individual answers to. However, on this occasion I would refer to this page 17 which discusses the problems facing the Special War Crimes Department, where the first sentence says "Effective regional co-operation is one of the basic preconditions for the conduct of criminal proceedings in war crimes cases". Of course, an undeniable sentence and correct. I ask the question to Mr Barašin: 'Did the non-processing... after 17 years of war crimes committed in Dobrovoljaka Street and Tuzlana Colony, as well as in the Dudaković case, have the Tužilašve's relationship with these cases contributed directly to the violation of interstate relations with neighbouring Serbia?' Exactly, because here's a little while ago we had a chance to track down what was going on with the warrants and everything that followed them. I think these are really questions that I should be looking for and hearing from Mr. Barašin on this occasion. Of course, it is likely that for a year and a half, it is in a particular hand and will not be able to answer all the questions about 31 why it has waited so long, and therefore it has never been an absolute procedure in terms of uncontested war crimes. I also ask a number of other questions that come from the order of the people I represent in this home. First of all, it's very difficult to explain to people why and how our prosecution treats certain cases. Is there a certain selectivity in solving cases when it comes to war crimes, do these cases, which I have mentioned a number of other cases, create doubt and simply one mistrust of the Serb people towards the BiH Prosecutor's institution? First of all, because of the fact that over a thousand years of prison sentences have been imposed on Srbin, which in The Hague, which, in the Court of BiH, is for war crimes, and for other peoples, these figures are significantly, significantly lower and incomparably lower, and it is undeniable that there have been crimes on all sides and that every crime is a war crime. Also, certain shortcomings in the management of war crimes cases listed here, on this page 17, I think the issues are very important and to which the prosecution should pay more attention. Simply one co-operation with the surrounding countries, Serbia, Croatia and other countries, which are directly interested in resolving these particular issues must be significantly, significantly better than it has been so far. I would also ask Mr Barašin here, of course, if we have enough time, to give us answers to certain questions that we have had the opportunity to hear from the debaters at this session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5115	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mrs. Čolo. Here you go. Is that a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5116	Replica. I have one brief intervention since this information does not contain the individual names of suspects and accused persons. I don't think it's correct to ask the prosecutor a question to speak at what stage of the investigation is against certain individuals and whether there are any such investigations at all. You can, on the basis of the Law on Access to Information, ask the Prosecutor's Office to give you certain information, you can ask a delegate question, but I don't think today is the place to discuss individual investigations, estimating, above all, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, because the prosecutor has a certain discretionary right and our investigations have a certain degree of secrecy. If Mr. Koprivica, as a lawyer, does not know this, these investigations in BiH have a degree of secrecy since 2003. So, as parliamentarians, we don't need to know how far the criminal proceedings took place when it came to the initiation of an investigation against certain persons. And I don't care how long the prosecution has come into a particular criminal case, but I am interested in, globally speaking, what has been done in investigations against all suspects and accused persons in BiH. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Anyone else need a word? I have one suggestion that we might be able to get out of this situation. We have heard here through the debate a large series of very different questions addressed to the prosecution and to the chief prosecutor, Mr. Barašin. ... There have been questions of a variety of nature and including entering certain specific cases, mentioning certain cases which have been completed by the prosecution, brought to the attention of the hearing in court, so I would suggest that we do not now expect Mr Barašin to go in line, although I see that he has carefully recorded all the reflections of all the debates, it would far lead us to the fact that he is making and selecting what he wants, and what he will not answer – to send a stenogram from the debate of the dom today to gospodin Barašin, the Prosecutor, with a request that, to the extent that it is possible to answer each representative to the questions asked, give answers to each representative individually. Could it be a way out of this situation? Please, nice. Does anyone have a different view or are we going to ask Mr. Barašin if he is now ready to give answers to all the questions you have heard from the representatives in the O.R.? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5118	Just a few short sentences if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5120	Dear chairman, distinguished representatives, guests, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, listening to these comments today, I understand and I know that they are all all guilty prosecutors, especially the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I thank all those who gave positive criticism and positive remarks, and I thank those who criticize our work. I would only ask you in the future that the prosecution respects its basic principle in its work, the principle of legality and the principle of independence. And today's comments in front of this house show that we're on the right track and we're doing the right job. The BiH prosecutor's office is the sui generis prosecutor's office and it is a young institution. It's one of the domestic staff and foreign staff conglomerates. I have heard from a respected representative, Mrs. Majkić, that she is directly asking a question about the strategic plan for extending the mandate to international colleagues. When we hear your comments as a representative of the people, all three peoples and others, we realize that there is yet another time for international colleagues to attend, but in a new form and under the control of the Attorney General's Office. The BiH prosecutor's office and the chief prosecutor at the head of the institution are the institutions. For your work, you understand well, they match the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and they match the citizens of BiH, because we are the ones who represent the state at a given time. 33 As a young institution, the War Crimes Department has existed since 2005, which is four years. He's done enough. Don't think I'm as chief prosecutor satisfied with all the results. The solution to the case is 33%, however, it is extremely good results and at this point I am telling you that the BiH Prosecutor's Office justified the purpose of its existence. But when we meet here, whether it was me or someone else as chief prosecutor, in this same place, you'll see that the results are much better and much more successful. As far as war crimes cases are concerned, this request and the position of all three peoples' representatives that we approach selectively in the processing of war crimes cases is not true. And I can make that argument and explain it to you. Dear Representative Čolo has noticed this well because it comes from the same profession, because the BiH Prosecutor's Office, since the entry into force of the new BiH Criminal Procedure Act, has been secretly investigating, which does not give any information to the public. At this point, I can't tell you what cases we're working on, either, at which stage the investigation has come. Often, individual subjects are of interest to a particular political situation, to the interest of a particular people and to collect certain political points, certain items appear before the elections. As chief prosecutor, you might have noticed, I'm not making any comments about the cases that are active through my public appearance. Because the subject cannot be initiated on one piece of paper, which is submitted by a certain prime minister, with a few sentences, that someone has committed a particular crime. Gentlemen, the crimes that have been committed will be for them by those who have done it. However, do not burden the BiH Prosecutors' Office and prosecutors that they can play a negative historical role if co-existence does not occur in these areas. Co-existence exists, the prosecution is working, but no one is asking where the tužilaštvo's work was before 2003 when this prosecution did not exist at all, especially the War Crimes Department. We need to be realistic, look at all the situations. I've carefully written down all your questions for active subjects. You'll get some answers, and you won't get some, because I can't hurt the secrecy of the investigation. You have to understand that at this point. Then, this is a democratic society and there must be... a liberating verdict. You have to understand that co-existence and time do their part. In war crimes cases, there's a problem, it's a witness problem. I point that out... witness. People just don't want to testify. They come to the D.A., tell one story, when they appear before the Court, tell another story, and we know what the case is before the Court of Justice of BiH regarding the Criminal Procedure Act, because it is only believed that evidence found before the Court. I had a situation where a witness who was a protected witness: before the Court gave up his testimony. What can the prosecutor say at that point? I'm not going to say that we're all prosecutors bright spots, but if there's evidence against us that we're not working professionally, since one of the MPs here said there are rules, we need to establish norms. If there are a number of acquittals or reluctances, the question arises whether this man is capable. However,... the standard of our work is confirmed indictments and indictments brought before the Court. This is a democratic society, at some point there must also be acquittals, and every acquittal by the prosecutor is being brought to justice. Now, there's this problem that's a new system. Whether we have a three-step system of legal remedies or not, but they're not prosecutors. Give the prosecutors... the prosecutors will use them. Then, as far as the budget is concerned. We budget, as much as we asked, got reduced to the prosecution's work, but we're satisfied. We contacted the Minister of Finance at the Council of Ministers, there are 34 budget rebalances and it is not true that we do not achieve our purpose. The purpose of the BiH Prosecution is justified and I think that in this information that I have filed and which you have carefully, I see, which I am pleased, read and read all the valid data, you have even recorded from the Internet our report that we give to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and you have done comparatively, you have compared the methods of our work – believe that this information and our report are a real state of affairs in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and none of us are aware of the fact that the data, although statistics, do not like it when told them, is a collection of incorrect data. Because we, as prosecutors, are not alone in the chain of prosecution. There are other agencies here, we don't collect evidence ourselves, and that's for some other thematic session, maybe this home, if the issue is applied, and these are subjective and objective conditions that lead to the resolution or non-resolvement of war crimes cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5121	Thank you very much, Mr. Barašin. We've got a lot of exhaustive answers. I believe not all the questions asked. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. So we neither accept nor reject this information, and I suggest we take it to the knowledge of it, the way the House of Representatives did. I'm putting on a plea. Who is “for ” to receive this knowledge? That's 10 votes "yes". ‘Non’? ‘Non’ two. "Retentions"? The "against" is three, "abstained" two votes. We don't have entity support. Please, do we have a need to consult a little bit and agree on a change of opinion? Let's go to the second round... The second round is that we must not have votes "against" more than two-thirds of an entity, which means four votes stop this information. I ask again who's "for"? "For" is 10 from the Federation. Who Is “against ”? Two and three "abstained" from the RS. Information is supported, we've received it. Moving to point 10.10 is: 35 Ad. Ten. Manuel's Human Rights Information for BiH on the state of play in 2008 and the activities undertaken in 2009 Just to let you know. ... The press is leaving us, the rest aren't interested. Thank you very much for following our work so far. Therefore, the House of Representatives took note of the Ombudsman informacija and adopted the conclusion proposed by the Joint Commission. First Vice-President of the Joint Committee, Mr. Koprivica, do you have a need? Here you go. You don't. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Majkić is a lady and we'll give her the word, and then Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5123	The Ombudsman Act therefore provides for the obligation to submit an annual report. So, the report is submitted to the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly, the RS Assembly and the Federal Parliament, and we have this information ahead of us. We understand why this is information, because Ombudsmen didn't have the elements to make a quality report, but he made such information that he was quite concerned about us. We should ask ourselves how the institutions work, when this is the institution we had: every year we've been reviewing her audit reports, someone should also consider her work report, and what the new Ombudsman found is so alarming that we need to seriously imagine what kind of trust we have in the institutions and who they're even justifying their behavior and their way of working. I'll list some of the shortcomings that the new Ombudsman has seen. He says, "The absence of the Internal Organisation and the systematization of jobs." Imagine you, an institution that's been working all these years, and she doesn't have this internal organization and systemization rule. The lack of an office in Mostar, which is a legal obligation, the lack of an orderly accounting department, was performed by a person under an act contract. That's terrible! Sweeping the frame, in the Brcko office led the intern. An unresolved question of office space. Imagine, please, for renting space in Sarajevo, Banja Luka monthly costs amounted to 11.700 marks and plus overhead costs. So imagine you're the ombudsmen's behavior, what a wasteful behavior that's been and, look, I'm sorry the prosecutor's not here to listen to these stories right now. Accreditation of an institution carried out in 2004, with the obligation to recredit in 2008, but not done. They don't care what happens to an institution! Unsettled internal business, no entry of the case has been established. Imagine, the subject's register, so that's what the farmer's cooperative has written down, and the Ombudsman's institution doesn't have one. We know what the audit reports were like, so I don't talk about it. The planned budget does not monitor the functioning of the institution. A huge budget planned and a 30% execution. And the scariest thing is, there wasn't a run electronic database, even though there was a program. So you don't even know what 36 of the most common complaints about human rights violations are. So we're wondering what the Ombudsmans have been doing for four years, I think, is it four years, how much, six, six, worse. What's the status of the entity ombudsmen now? The Federation adopted the Law on how the Ombudsman Institution ends its post in a transitional period, during which a transitional period is not clearly defined. In the RS, the Law on the termination of the Ombudsman's work has three times been withdrawn from the agenda because it could not pass the assembly committees. And objectively, the former Ombudsman has assumed a new function,...the institution does not exist. So the situation with both entity ombudsmans is very problematic. I really respect what the new Ombudsmans have done, and it gives me hope that the new Ombudsman, I hope, will soon be complete and will do what we haven't done all these years ago. So, I respect all of this that you have done to adopt normative acts and regulations that you have, yes, and I very much advocate that this conclusion, adopted by the Human Rights Commission, is indeed adopted and supported and that it sits down with the entity assemblies and arrangements in which the future Ombudsman Institution will function in the first place. So, I suggest that this report be taken to the knowledge, or information to be taken to the knowledge, that next year we expect that the report will be what... should be in accordance with the law and... that the situation which is a disaster in this institution, perhaps one of the worst institutions, that the next report will speak much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, compared to Mrs. Majkić, I have a different opinion on this information. So, I don't think this is good information and this is one bad information, and I'm going to give you a reason why. It looks like some kind of lawsuit to me. So, the ones that were so far were the bad guys, the ones that came now were the good guys. So, the fact is, and this is Mrs. Majkić's good point, that there are certain things in the Information that have been found that have not been done in the past. Therefore, no internal organisation regulation has been adopted and personal files have not been established in accordance with the law. The office's technical equipment is bad, but I don't think it's a significant flaw. So these are deficiencies that can be eliminated and prove that it was not in previous times that was being done with some attention that was supposed to exist. But they're not significant shortcomings. It is far more important, far more significant to me that the Ombudsman's institution has not quality-solved the accommodation for this period from 2003 to today, that we have a central place or central Ombudsman institution in Banja Luka which is six years of tenant. In Sarajevo too, in Mostar as well. 37 And then the logical question arises: Should the Ombudsman Institution be located in these three cities, or are there other environments in BiH where certain state institutions can be well-resolved? If it can't be Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, can it be some three other cities in BiH, where it will get quality space, where it will be qualityd and, most importantly, that no amount of money will be paid for it? So we make a decision and at our leaders' meetings, the headquarters of the institution will be there, the law is passed, it will be in those three cities. In the end, we get an institution that can't be perfectly settled. I have raised the question before, I am now doing the same thing: Do all our institutions have to be located in these three cities, or can certain institutions be well placed in Tuzla, Bihac, Tomislav City, Trebinj, Zenica, anywhere else? So this is how we slave, these three cities, we bring in institutions that are in sub-optimal relations and where the citizens of this country pay huge financial resources for their accommodation, which turns out to be very bad. And of course, another remark to this information. On page 17, where future activities of the Ombudsman Institution are listed, instead of following these shortcomings, which are evident, establishing precise obligations and deadlines for their removal, it seems to me that the Ombudsman, without some special right, is entitled to criticise the adoption of appropriate laws that have been passed in the parliamentary procedure and the solutions contained in those laws. I think the Ombudsman should turn to his work, not to criticise the appropriate solutions that have been made in the laws that have not yet entered into force, such as 'The Law on the Parliamentary Military Commissioner'. We should wait to see how the proper law will apply and what consequences it will be, and only then enter the proper criticism, and in that case I do not think it is the obligation of the Ombudsman and his right (rightly is, we all have the right to speak and to present the relevant criticism), but they should turn towards their work, because there are many unresolved cases in the Ombudsman Institution that need to be arranged and done. So my central observation is how the institutions in BiH are being installed and that in this way we are simply creating unnecessary and large costs, of course, that go on the shoulders of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5126	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Tihić contacted before that, Mr. Jović, and then Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5127	"I've got the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5128	You should have said so right away. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5129	Thank you, Mr. President. Just as the esteemed colleague and envoy Šarab spoke, I immediately raised my hand, because in this report that we have in front of us on page 3 and 4, it is enough to look at a sentence in the 38 that the Mostar office has never been opened and the funds from the 2009 budget are not planned for this purpose. The whole debate mentioned Banja Luka, Sarajevo and Mostar, etc., I think we know what this is about, so it's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5130	Thank you very much. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5131	I wouldn't want to talk much about the information itself, so, because we're taking it to the knowledge, we can be more or less satisfied. Normally, I'm not satisfied that there was no unification of the Ombudsman institution. Who's to blame is the National Assembly of the RS, the Federation Parliament, if it's our fault that we chose the Ombudsman for a year, and in one, another, I don't know, what attempt we've just been able to do. I also agree with the fact that Mr. Šaraba spoke about the headquarters of these institutions and should continue to take into account that when we do dislocating and determining the headquarters of institutions, it does not have to be just these three cities, other cities, especially if they have certain advantages or conditions. But why did I answer my word? Here, when it comes to this conclusion of the House of Representatives: 'point 1. It comes to the knowledge of the Information, point 2. It says: 'The Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is invited to hold a meeting with the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Parliament of the Federation of BiH and propose solutions to the problems in the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH and on the basis of information'. Look, if we were to take it from our colleagues, if we made one of these precedents, if our colleagues were to now follow the law enforcement, if they were to participate in, I don't know, law enforcement, that, that, then, that would be one lot, to say, a dangerous precedent, and a stand-up is not our job, you know. Law enforcement... deals with executive power. I don't know you, states, entities, some or other Council of Ministers and Governments who can generally do this job. So I answered, and I don't think this second conclusion should be adopted, so that we can adopt the first conclusion, receive information to the knowledge, and put in charge, possibly, if we should be in charge and agree with the House of Representatives, to do so by the competent ministries. I mean primarily the BiH Ministry of Justice and Entity. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5132	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5133	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5134	Yeah, I've been accepting that. Is there anyone else in need? 39 So we only have one suggestion here. On the one hand, we've got the Manchester Information and at the same time we have the proposed conclusion in two points. The intervention agreed on by Mr. Tihić and I, here I have consulted Mrs. Majkić, is in this sense that instead of colleagues, it is to give it to the executive authorities for discussion. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice of the Entity, or the Council of Ministers and the Government of Entity, should propose solutions in connection with and thus continue with the second part of this solution, and free those obligations that are not relevant to the colleges, because they would engage in something that is not our task. We pass the law, and implementation: the obligation has an executive power to implement these laws. That's it, that's one change.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5135	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5136	Wait a minute, the ombudsmen are here to help us with the information and everything else. Mrs. Džumhur, do you have a need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5137	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you for a correct discussion in the assessment of the work of the Ombudsman institution, although this is information and I am glad that you tried to put it in context, indeed, in which this institution is acting at some point I will first start with this proposal concerning the issue of resolving... the unification of the Ombudsman institution to the executive authority. The problem is that RS has not yet passed a law on the termination of the functioning of the RS Ombudsman Institution, which was due to be passed by the end of 2006 under the Law on the Ombudsman of BiH. The transition period ceased in December 2006. This stopped, in some ways, the mandate and entity ombudsmans both in the Federation and in the RS. The Federation passed the Interruption Act, however, in its Article 3rd said that the real functioning of the institution would finally be and at the same time, not putting what it means at the same time, likely, assuming that such a law would not be passed in the RS. We have asked BiH's ombudsmans for the opinion of the Justice Ministry about explaining the question: at the same time and finally, and we have never received an explanation from the Ministry of Justice. We spoke to the Federal Parliament and the Federal Parliament, instead of the original interpretation of the law, made, the College of Parliament concluded that it was beginning to exist to the institution of the Ombudsman Federation. So the College of Parliament has put itself above the law itself and above Parliament. In the RS, we had a meeting with the chairman of the National Assembly several times, and we were given the assurance that one legal path would still be taken, not politically, which means if someone had doubts about whether in its law, the BiH Parliament could, in some way, order entity authorities, the entity assembly to pass the law, that it would go as a matter of assessment of constitutionality as legal issues, and not that further political debate would be conducted. 40 Unfortunately, we now have a situation that the RS has formed a Manchester for children of the RS and that Mrs. Nada Grahovac, who acted as the Ombudsman of the RS, is now the Ombudsmen for children. And we in the RS only have one deputy Ombudsman who in 2006 stopped his mandate or in 2009 in every variant, no, in every variant in 2008. In this situation, the Commission for Human Rights has therefore concluded that parliaments meet, because we have a situation that we do not have a legal instrument, the law has not been passed in the RS Assembly. About the other comments, if the chairman would allow me two minutes, for space. We really wanted us not to pay for space, and in the Federation we found a building, which is ruins, in Wilson's promenade, and we asked the Federation government, or the Ministry of Science, Education and Culture to make that ruin available to us, and we provided donor funds. We got a negative opinion. In all contacts with the Federation Joint Service, we have indeed encountered a high misunderstanding. In RS, we had meetings with the mayor of Banja Luka, and we didn't result. And now we're in a very ugly situation. When we talk about the Central Office in Banja Luka, we really want it to be central, because that's what the law obliges us to make the public call we've issued, but we've only been contacted by the owners of private houses. Putting BiH's institution in a private house is the dilemma we were facing. As for the institutions in Sarajevo, the Sarajevo Office, we moved to the Unioninvesta building so we are in a new space, where we pay less rent. There was a public call in Mostar. We have already selected space, but our request for additional funds from the budget reserve has received a negative opinion from the Ministry of Finance, here is Mr. Šakota, and we have referred to the Council of Ministers with such a negative opinion and a positive attitude of the Committee on Internal Policy and we will see what happens Thursday. As far as field offices are concerned, it's planned to keep the entity offices and I have to tell counsel Šarabi, unfortunately, everyone pays rents in municipalities, and in Prijedor, and in Bijeljina, and in Foca, Livn, all the entity ombudsmen have to pay rent and in municipalities, no one in this country for nothing. So about that, maybe I left something out there, and I'm very happy to answer, and I'm really using the opportunity to ask you to name our third colleague as soon as possible, it's very hard to work when we're not in the set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Džumhur. You've been more than exhaustive. After your explanation, I have further strengthened my belief that, in point 2 of the proposed conclusion, it is not a place for colleges of state-level and entity-level parliaments, but it is exclusively the tasks of the government that propose laws and propose amendments to the law, although they are not good. Therefore, I ask that we remain at this position to redefine the text in point 2 of the proposed conclusion of the Commission or to delete point 2 which will in itself produce the need for governments to consider resolving this problem. Then let's stay on redefinition to call on the justice ministries, the council of ministers and entity ministries of justice to propose a solution to get out of this situation. 41 So I do not conclude the debate, I have made only a comment on what we have heard and strengthened the position of the proposal that we have heard before. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea, so let's get first information to the knowledge. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? ‘Contained’ one. We received information from 13 votes in total. Now I ask that this conclusion of the Committee on Redefined Point 2, in the way I have already said it – put it to the statement. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? So, I agree that we unanimously accepted the redefined – unanimously, is it so, Mr. Šarab, thank you very much, you have bowed down to this majority – we unanimously accepted the redefined conclusion of the Commission in the manner proposed by Mr. Tihić. We're going to point 11 and that's ad. 11. Security information in BiH in 2008 The House of Representatives had this story on the agenda, received information and adopted the conclusion proposed by the Joint Commission. I'm asking Mr. Zrn if there's a need. Here you are, the committee in question, the chairman, Mr Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5140	I don't need to, and I suggest this home accepts this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5141	About the state of security.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5142	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5143	Thank you very much. 42 I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? The first one's pulled nowŠaraba but we'll give you a head start. Look at the way we're really in the mood. Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5144	I have been thinking about the purpose of the debate on this agenda point for which we, members of the Defence and Security Commission, have had a lot of work and have been doing it for a long time and we have been dealing with it a few years in a row. Reason and rationality tell me that at this point, when the issue is expected to finally be resolved by the Minister of Sadović inside of the SDA, I hereby declare that I will not settle on the subject of this report, although I have prepared myself for this point. I'd have something to say, but I don't want to do it right now at the moment when that question has to be solved at last. So, all this debate would help me less than to act on the findings of a competent commission that says that it will put the situation on the agenda when, together with the minister and all the security agencies, I have interpreted it together with the new minister and the security agencies, which will be able to propose a specific action plan on how to get out of this situation that is related to the security sector. So here I am now saying that this proposal, i.e., we need to accept the information, because I hope this is the latest information submitted by Minister Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5145	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, therefore, I think it is appropriate to say something about this information that reflects the situation of the security situation in BiH. And what Mrs. Majkić said, we have been on the issue for a very long time at Parliament to remove this information internally and that it took a longer period of time until in the end it really came to debate in full capacity. So that all persons who wish to make an insight into this information. And I still don't know why the Ministry kept this information with a certain degree of secrecy, because there's information inside that, in my opinion, needs to be made available to everyone. What I'm saying is that this information, I think, is another number of information coming from this ministry did not have the proper degree of specificity that the conclusions should have. I believe that, when one specific or one correct information is made, this is one information that is a taxing list of events in this area, then the conclusions at the end of this information must be very precise and concrete, obliging certain persons or certain institutions, because it is the only way to remove the relevant deficiencies that occur and which should be eliminated. So conclusion number one, number two and number four should be written far more concrete. I don't know if there's anyone here from the Ministry, but I believe that in 43 future times, the Ministry must make concrete conclusions and thus make a commitment either to an institution or to an individual who will work to remove the relevant perceived shortcomings that it really has in this information. And secondly, here I already think that this is the third year, 2006, 2007, 2008, we in the safety situation information can see that the appropriate forms of crime are on the rise. One of those who unfortunately is on a steady rise and who takes lives to BiH is an increase in the number of car accidents. In BiH two years ago, it seems to me that we passed the law, but unfortunately this law did not, in my opinion, produce adequate results and do not produce results, and I therefore believe that they should be found urgently in the revision and entity laws, and therefore remove all the problems that exist in that area in order to reduce the number of these accidents, and in my opinion, in any case, there is a lot of space. So my concrete remark, I will repeat once again, is in conclusions, proposals for measures and actions that are given in this information and that do not correspond to reality as they should and should be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5147	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Who wants another word? Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5148	Well, I'm worried about the rise of some type of crime in BiH compared to the previous year. Here, I'd just like to point out page 12 is about the increase in the registered crime of stealing motor vehicles, especially in the Federation of BiH, where a total of 1,401 were recorded last year's crime of stealing motor vehicles, which is more than 15.8% compared to the previous year. But what worries me even more is the brightness of these crimes. It says only 10% of the perpetrators of the theft of motor vehicles in the Federation of BiH have been found. It is a slightly better situation in the RS, because it is said here that a chain of organised groups from Trebinj, eastern Sarajevo and Banja Luka has been cut. What I object to is that there is no measure to improve the detection of criminal offences and how the competent institutions, from SIPA to those at the bottom, will mean to the cantonal MUPs and MUPs in RS, the way they will act to cut the visible organised chains that participate in stealing motor vehicles on BiH territory. So, we don't have these concrete measures, and so we as BiH citizens need to make peace with the fact that motor vehicles are being stolen in BiH and that only 10% of the stolen motor vehicles, the perpetrators of these crimes are being discovered. I don't know how as a citizen, I can accept such a state where we're helpless and no one can help us if tomorrow we become victims of the execution of these crimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5149	There are solutions for thieves. There is a death penalty to be imposed. 44 Who wants a further discussion? I'm closing the debate. Please, first we'll get word of the Information, receive it to the knowledge or refuse. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? One "abstained", the others received information; 13 votes "yes". I ask you to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion in two points given by the Commission. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Committee. We're going to point 12, that's ad. 12. Ostensibility of the House on a proposal from the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly to address the colleges of both homes to the High Representative for BiH to give an opinion on the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics You have received a proposal to conclude both homes and I only remind you that this conclusion came from a question asked by our distinguished colleague Mr. Šaraba, which refers to persons who have been replaced by the decisions of the High Representative. The House of Representatives adopted the conclusion on the conclusion of the Joint Committee, which I have already read to you, and the agreement is to declare both home and home. That's why it's in our house. If the House agrees, then the College will send a joint act to each other, so ask Mr. Šaraba, and we will wait for an answer. Here, I guess that's very clear now. If this issue is very cumbersome and clouded, so until you explain it, it is not clear to everyone who did not participate in the process of discussing the proposal for this conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5151	I apologize, this is the third time I've appeared today, and it's not the custom because they have delegates who should also participate in these discussions, but here we have on the agenda a question that goes beyond a simple one, so to speak, a conclusion that is proposed here. It's about the powers of the High Representative and you know that under the Dayton Agreement, the High Representative in Annex X. - Malten, in every annex, he has some authority, some right to, I don't know, suggest something, to give consent, to arbitration, in the end to be a top interpreter, so 45 and to make, you have seen, through certain interpretations that have been made, to change decisions, to ask, to replace, here, this question that is also here. I believe that the issue of OHR power is a matter that needs to be resolved by the Constitution, certainly before the Office of the High Representative is closed. Because if that happens not to be solved, we will have one void, a legal void where everyone will, in their own way, be able to interpret these powers of OHR that are allocated by, maltene, to all annexes of the Dayton Agreement. And the particular danger is the role of the Supreme Interpreter of the Dayton Agreement, and it is also a danger and what Mr. Šaraba has initiated when it comes to the decisions on shifts, the denial of certain human rights, but we have a series of laws that have been passed, we have a decision that changes the Constitution of entities, etc. It is a conglomerate of various issues and problems that need to be discussed and debated both here and in some other places, but this issue can only be settled in a constitutional manner. Through a certain amendment to the Constitution, we will say, I don't know, the Supreme Interpreter is determined by the Constitutional Court or by some other question, here, as may be suggested here, perhaps an Ombudsman or some other BiH institution, normally, which will not again be subject to some kind of blockades, etc. In a particular case, as far as I know, and I trust most of you, the High Representative has recently changed a lot of those decisions when it comes to individual sanctions. And he does so on the basis of the initiative of him who is punished, according to whom the decision was made. When he has the opportunity to simply examine those decisions, I guess like all other decisions, to have a decision and where it's gone wrong, where it may have gone too far, but we can't put ourselves in the role of lawyers, I don't know you, the representatives of all those people who have been replaced. They should write a request to OHR, state their arguments, they know why they were punished and in that case the High Representative is being shown whether he respects the request or refuses. We should not, as Parliament, interfere here in this part of the job in this way. I think we should, not this opportunity but the second time and in more places, talk about the OHR's power problem. I know these people have been hurt, some of these people that they've certainly and violated human rights and here they are since '92. '95. The year was injured by the right to life, health, freedom of residence, movement. Normally and this right is certainly significant and must be taken into account, but I think that it should be done by individuals to whom those sanctions have been imposed that they address the Office of the High Representative and that the Office of the High Representative afterwards makes a decision on, as it has so far made, putting aside a series of decisions that have been taken. Parliament should not, in my opinion, be involved, I, therefore, have been to the College against this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5152	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. I'm asking who wants the next word. Mr. Rajić, Dr. Ivanic. We'll give šarab our word later.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5153	I understood Mr. Tihić's presentation in two parts. In the first part, he spoke of the need to transfer the current powers of the High Representative through the constitutional definition of powers, following the 46th termination of his term of office, to BiH institutions, if I understand correctly. If we're talking about some time professionally, it'll be tomorrow. The proposal actually speaks of the current acute moment in which there are a number of BiH citizens who are limited or deprived of some rights, in particular political rights, and in this sense the initiative and the proposal took place. I am also deeply aware of what Mr Tihić stressed that we do not have a mandate to forward in any way with the Office of the High Representative in terms of his decisions as to how he will make them, except that in a certain way we can say that we have been reached by such voices, demands and requests to encourage and pray to the High Representative. I think that would be unproductive, if there was really no need to do that. Maybe the best way to give up on this conclusion. I join this opinion, but should in some way inform, through the media inform those people whose rights are limited by the decisions of the High Representative to have the opportunity to turn to them on their own and probably come up with some solutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5154	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5155	If I understand correctly, the Commission here asked the High Representative to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion before voting on the conclusion itself. So she asks him for an opinion. Before we vote on this conclusion to initiate an initiative to shut it down and I don't see at all what's problematic in the advisory position of the High Representative. We ask him what he thinks of that Commission conclusion, if I understand correctly, the chairman, right. So there is no attitude, there is no attitude, but he consults before a statement. And if he says you have no right to, it's my exclusive, you won't vote. But I don't see what's problematicly political, even for those who, above all, Mr. Tihić, yes, politically what's problematic to hear the opinion of the High Representative, because we have it as a problem. We actually have it as a problem in this country. Now whether it's ours, his, the Constitutional Court or anyone else's, I don't know. I therefore think that this attitude is that he should ask himself, to be delivered to him, to say what he thinks about the proposal – quite correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5156	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5157	Then I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5158	Wait a minute. We'll get out of this problem. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5159	Because here, I from this, which says, 'after the debate was held, the Joint College has spoken of a proposal to be sent to give an opinion on the conclusion of the Joint Commission'. [[Common discussion]] I understand that the address, the document is addressed to me: 'The statement on the Joint College's proposal to address both homes to the High Representative', I am not talking about this conclusion. Well, look at the title. Title of the text: 'A statement by the House on a proposal from the Kolegijum to address the College to the High Representative'. Well, I really think that, before we make a statement about the conclusion, it's a normal thing, if we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5161	My colleague Ivanic!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5162	I really suggest we address the High Representative to tell us what he thinks about the conclusion, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5163	My kolega Ivanić, I heard you, we all heard you, and I suggest that we get out of your dilemmas in a way that I will now give my word to the author, the source, so the source is best drunk, so to the author of the motion initiative, so this conclusion that has passed all these stages and came to Dom. Please, Mr. Šarab, explain to Mr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, after a year and a half of my personal struggle here in Parliament has finally defined one conclusion or one initiative towards a high representative who has one single goal, which is that in a certain way he is willing to begin to reconsider his decisions that he made exactly five years ago. Last shift decisions, the largest number of shifts was made on June 30th 2004, when 60 officials were replaced. The fact that there were shifts before that, and at this point there are around 150 people in BiH who have been denied basic human and civil rights. People don't have a chance to work in their former firms where they worked before, they don't have a chance to get into their own company, they're banned. So, a man must not enter his company where he worked for 20 years before becoming a certain official, then being removed. So he was denied the possibility of achieving one of the basic human rights. People don't have 48 options and the right to report to the Employment Bureau to get the amount that belongs to people when they're out of a job. They can't verify the medical book. So my initiative and my request, when I first submitted a parliamentary question a year and a half ago to the Office of the High Representative, was, therefore, not to return political rights to people, but to return basic human rights to them. The right to work at a workplace where he was a reference officer at a company and what he was before that. So that he could be registered to the Employment Bureau, that he could verify the health book. And I'm saying all this from my experience because I was one of those 60. And she's right, Mrs. Majkić, when she said earlier that the international community has made numerous mistakes here in BiH. One of the mistakes is this way of changing. So all these people turned to the high representative and asked to reconsider their decisions, and no one got an answer. So, simply, one wall of silence. So, this is an initiative by the Office of the High Representative to say, here, I accept to reconsider my decisions that I made, because after five years, it's logical that if I replaced someone, I denied them basic human rights, to tell them whether you're guilty or not. If you're not guilty, at least let him do his basic job, so he can live. So, people are on the verge of misery, on the verge of existence. Now, that was my initiative. So to bring back to people the basic human and civil rights that have been established in the BiH Constitution and nothing else. So to allow them to live, and they don't, these 150 people don't have the basic rights set out in the BiH Constitution. Either the High Representative says, eh, he's willing to give it to some institution so let her decide whether people are guilty or not. So no one here will say, gentlemen, it's your fault that you did it and that, or to say, gentlemen, no, it's not your fault, no guilt. Anyone can make a mistake, including the Office of the High Representative. And to allow people to enjoy and achieve that basic degree of human rights, which is the right to work on that job where he used to work or the right to be registered at the Bureau or, here, that he can verify the health book, because people can't do that either. And I think it is the duty of the High Representative to do and I think this is the minimum that Parliament could launch, so it is fighting for the basic human rights of the citizens of BiH, because there are both Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat. They've all been changed and replaced over certain periods, and this needs to be found on the High Representative's desk and sent us an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5165	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Here, we'll hear from the human rights expert. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5166	Oh, I'd just like a brief one impression from the Human Rights Commission. You have seen, this conclusion was signed by the chairman, Mr Sadik Ahmetović, who is not a member of this house. But during the debate on this proposal, which Mr Slobodan Šaraba gave, they were representatives of the OHR at the Commission's meeting on two occasions, and they gave their written statement that all those who had been replaced by the decision of the High Representative who had submitted a written request for review and that the decision that the High Representative had reconsidered that decision and in justified cases, where there was a basis for such a decision to be put out of force – that it had done so. And we've received such an act and we've considered it on the Commission, so what Mr. Slobodan Šaraba 49 says is that with their demands they come across a wall of silence, I don't know that it's because, believe me, we got such paper from OHR, in which it's said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5167	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here to take your word for it? Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5168	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think Mrs Alma's right. It is true that the discussion on the Commission has run in this direction and that we have received certain notifications from the OHR gentlemen in this regard. However, practice confirms a completely different state compared to what we had the opportunity to hear. I am also personally familiar with several cases where people have submitted requests to OHR, and for more than two years they have been waiting for any answer. There's just no answer. Shut up. So, in this sense, I do suggest that we still support this conclusion, which the Commission, or the House of Representatives, also accepted, and the Human Rights Commission to send a letter to the OHR, that they simply seek their indication in terms of the human rights of persons removed by the High Representative, because in countless cases there is no answer. So, simple, silence and silence. It's a practice that's not good. And I think this way this home would certainly make one contribution to simply seeing what these people are doing, so that the simple state of things doesn't go on like this forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5169	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5170	I don't know, it seems to me that this can be very easily misunderstood, so we're going to divide into those who are for human rights and for those who aren't. It is that, we all know, the decisions of the High Representative of the irrevocable, the legal remedy against these decisions have been spent, it has passed, and this today may be one request that the High Representative, or his office, if he wishes and if he finds the elements to do so, reconsider some of his decisions. So that's the point. I personally think that the High Representative is not obliged to react to our initiatives, because he is autonomous, he does not have to consult the BiH Parliament or anyone else in making his decisions. It is known to whom he accounts, it is the Governing Board of the Peace Implementation Council, and it is nothing new. I don't mind letting this initiative go, but it seems a little illogical to me, and it would be much more common for me to reach a conclusion and make it public that Dom was having a debate about this issue, that he was calling on those citizens of BiH who were having problems with having a written address to the Office of the High Representative, so if there was another silence of the administration, then 50 I was about for us to manifest ourselves in such a way, and not to be misunderstood now: as well, we are one for the return of human and civil rights, the other we are not. I think there's a little bit of a rush here to qualify for what rights have been taken away. Most of the political rights have been taken away. It's my first time hearing that it's about taking away work rights. There may be cases somewhere, but if someone is removed from a particular job, with certain reasons, can't claim to return to the same place. And it's no longer a loss of labour rights, it's a loss of right to work, it's a completely different qualification. But I don't want to spread the story about it. So it's all right for me. We can accept this conclusion, forward it to the High Representative, but we are not invited to call the High Representative for action. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5171	Thank you very much. Is there anyone besides the promoter, Šaraba, who is now the third round of proposings, that was on the Committee, and then at the House, and so it came to us, you are no longer a proposing but you are in the initiative of the original one who suggested it. So we'll wear out the wishes of the debate counsel. Does anyone else have a need? Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5172	In short, I just wanted to tell Mr. Rajić. So, Mr. Rajić, people have frozen accounts, so here's what I didn't mention. So they couldn't get what they privately earned to collect. So there was such a measure. So it's a very wide range of rights that have been taken away from people. So this is just a fight for those rights. So none of these people asked for political rights after that. They were looking for life rights. And now they're looking for life rights. And this is a struggle for the rights of life, not for the political rights of those people. So the struggle that any of them can exercise basic life rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-13-0.u5173	Thank you very much for this clarification. Is there anyone else that needs to be discussed? I'm closing the debate and putting it on the line, so it's the will of every one of us to make a statement about it. I would like to make a statement, so I would like to suggest: 'The House's reading of a proposal from the Joint College of both homes'; therefore, the essence of this House is to address this House with a question of the High Representative, that is, the request that was made by Mr. Šaraba. Who is “for ” such a proposal? That's five, two, five, and three is eight; eight is "for". Who is “against ” Five“ against. ” "Contained" Two votes. We don't have an entity majority in the Federation. I'm asking if there's a consensus. There isn't. 51 We will repeat the vote. There should be no votes "against" in the Federation more than seven, that's two-thirds. Who's "for", please? "For" is five and three is eight. ‘Non’? Five. "Retentions"? Two. We were obvious to send a high representative a question on behalf of the House. Thank you very much. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13 to Ad. 28. Granting consent to ratify the proposed international legal acts I have a consensus in the College, a consensus in the College, please give us the consent to ratify the proposed international legal acts from point 13 to finalise with point 28.
