ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6279	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session is attended, for now, by 14 delegates, of which 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serbian people. Mr. Mladen Ivanić is justifiably absent. For today's 39th session, I suggest a harmonised agenda, as you received in the invitations. ♪ No, no, no, no ♪ ♪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 38th session of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of PSBiH; 6. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: House of Representatives (second reading); 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: House of Representatives (second reading); 9. Proposal for a law on general product safety – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Market Control in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 2 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 15. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the opinion of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of Nations – Proposer: Representative House; 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 18. A report from the meeting of the political directors of the Adriatic Charter Member States, held on 20.9.2009, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol. This agenda has been agreed on by the College of the House of Peoples. Just before I give my word, let the House know that we agreed to hold another session of the House of Peoples by the end of the year, 30.12., at the usual time at 11.00 p.m. By that time, we expect that the House of Representatives will address some issues so that we will be fully up-to-date by the end of the year. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions? If not, we can determine that the agenda has been adopted. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions Answers to the delegation questions were raised: Dušanka Majkić, asked at the 21st session and asked at the 36th session of the House; Zoran Koprivica, asked the question at the 37th session of the Central Bank of BiH and the Banking Agency of the Federation of BiH and asked at the 38th session of the House; Hazim Rančić asked questions at the 21st, 35th and two answers to the question asked at the 37th session of the House; Sulejman Tihić, asked at the 38th session of the House; Slobodan Šaraba, asked at the 38th session of the House; Ivo Miro Jović, asked at the 35th session of the House; Božo Rajić, asked at the 38th session of Dom and Adem Ibrahimpašić, asked questions at the 37th session of the House. 3 Are delegates satisfied with the answer, yes or no? Let's get this straight. Dušanka Majkić. It's just, I apologize, before you plead whether you're satisfied with the answers to the questions asked, I would like to remind you that you stayed in our last session to plead whether or not you are satisfied with the answer to the question asked, which concerns the issue of a CEMT permit, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6281	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. So, I've practically got three questions to answer. The first question that I couldn't answer last time because of the material's abundance, you saw how big it was, but here, I want to say a few words about this material that's caused significant public attention lately. So, we're talking about the distribution of CEMT licenses for 2009. I would like to remind you that this home, 21 January 2009, adopted the following conclusion – the House of People asks the Ministry of Communications and Transport to deliver within 15 days to the House of People full information on the criteria, procedures and method of distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 to domestic carriers. The number and reason of the complaint of the carrier, as well as the ongoing appeal procedures, should also be included in the information. Since there was no answer, on 22.4., at the 28th session of the House, I referred the first emergency, and then on 13.7., at the 32nd session of the House, I referred the second emergency to the ministry only in 6.11.2009. Here, we could soon celebrate the anniversary of the conclusion of this House. What did the analysis show for the documents that were delivered? So, I got partial answers. I have not received all the documents and I believe that the complete state of issue of the CEMT permit for 2009 will need to complete the investigative bodies, and the BiH Parliament will do in that jurisdiction what is its, and that is to join the Commission that is already working within the House of Representatives and that this job is done so that the situation that took place on the CEMT permits for 2009 would never happen again. What's this about? It is precisely prescribed how CEMT licences are issued. When I analyzed how the requirements for CEMT permits were received at the Ministry, then I saw that in different ways it was misused. So, for example, in the record of the applications received for the granting of CEMT licences for 2009, 406 requests were received in the Ministry Protocol. Two others were subsequently sent, and this was so written that on page 8, under the regular number 198, was written to number 407, and on page 15, below the regular number 401, submitted number 408. An additional 10 applications for the CEMT authorisation were submitted subsequently, which makes up a total of 418 applications received, subject to the condition that they were all accepted in accordance with the prescribed procedure, which I could not establish. How did the division of the CEMT permit take place? The carriers received CEMT licences for 2009 in a material called Transporters who received them and who did not receive them, and it says that 342 carriers received CEMT, and in the list of carriers that did not receive CEMT, it is 62. When these two numbers are summed up, you get 404, and the ratio between the requirements received and the number of carriers that got or didn't get CEMT is 14. Get lost, there's no sign of what's going on with those 14 licenses? What could have happened to them? 4 They could have been distributed to the carriers, for why no explanation was given could have been omitted for an unexplainable reason that could have been called negligence or something else. Objection to the carrier. In response, the Ministry notes that the CEMT Allocation Commission was granted 130 objections, 100 of which were rejected as unfounded and 30 of which were settled in favour of the carrier. It is incorrect, since the examination in the accompanying documentation found that 126 of the carrier’s claims were rejected as unfounded, that 5 of the premature, unclear categories were not mentioned anywhere in terms of prematureness and that 37 of the established ones were resolved for the benefit of the carrier. So there are 168 objections, not 130, according to the ministry. So more for 38 than they say. We have no information on these 38 objections, as they were completed, whether they got, under what conditions the carriers got. Secondly, we have no information on the composition of a commission that shared CEMT permits, so it was obviously both first-degree and second-degree commission working in the same composition, which is also difficult and impossible to understand. What does a certain international institution called the Paris International Transport Forum say? He says BiH has issued 848 CEMT licenses as a regular contingent, namely the series, and 283 CEMT licenses as a reserve contingent. According to the AITEF Report(?) 40 CEMT permits were cancelled and replaced for some reason they had, and only 21 CEMT reported to them by BiH. And now examples of manipulation. Example 1. – prevoznik “Mitraševićć” Brcko reported the theft of the licence, serial number from 28.12. on the same day, by emergency procedure, without request, publication in the Official Messenger, status registration and registration in the AITEF database(?) the company has been granted a new licence by means of a serial number 10048 in the upper right corner, the number of replacement licenses entered and the date of issue of 10011, issued 15.1. However, when I checked the number 10011, it was found that the holder of that license was the “Tiger-trans” Laktashi company which used the license until 2009. Example of manipulation 2. – On 15.1.2009, the theft of CEMT license number 0366 of 28.12 was reported by the transport company Asimkomerc Gradac, which also issued a replacement licence 10019 of 15.1. However, the actual carrier of this license number is a completely different company called “Lužarka” Gradačac. Example 3. – The license form 10045, 10116 was crossed with a chemical pen and written “mistake”, although the forms are completely clean without any dot ink. So, a copy has been crossed, and the original is probably somewhere in use. The authorities need to check where they are. There are other examples, but if I didn't bother, it would be too much to read all the examples of manipulation with CEMT licenses. Analysis of the materials achieved, I also noticed that seven CEMT licenses issued were not reported to AITIEF(?) to update the list of stolen CEMTs to prevent their abuse. This means that a conscious disrespect has been carried out, and this is suspected immediately of criminal acts, international conventions signed by BiH, because the carriers use these seven permits as double. In the Official Messenger, they were reported stolen, but that doesn't mean anything unless they've been reported to this international organisation in Paris. So, the ministry said in the report that a total of 283 replacement permits were granted. So, replacement licenses, I remind you, are only used when these regular licenses are obtained, when they're stolen, cancelled, something happens to them, only in that case they're being issued substitutes. So, in the report, the Ministry stated to me that 283 replacement CEMT permits were granted, that 5 were replaced by 134 permits for theft or other reasons, which means that there were 149 replacement permits left, which no one believes. It is very likely that they are all divided and the key question is why is it of this 134 replacement AITIEF permit(?) reported only 21. I need someone who's making an investigation... to get the authorities to determine where it is. So it's 64 licenses that haven't been reported to AITIEF(?). If it is known that on the black market one CEMT license can be sold between 5 and 10 000 euros, then it is very easy to calculate the size of this error. And one more thing to say, what are the consequences of BiH, domestic carriers, what could it be in case all of this is reported to AITEF(?) in Paris. AITIEF(?) means as a European organisation, it prescribes very strict criteria that must be respected by all the countries that work with CEMT permits. Due to non-compliance with these rules, AITIEF(?) BiH could punish the exclusion from the CEMT resolution, which means BiH would be under sanctions for two years. This again means that 418 BiH carriers would not be able to transport goods across Europe. Since the transport industry is making significant revenues to this country, it is a pure foreign exchange inflow, it does not need to be stressed what that would mean in general for the disappearance of the transport industry, and what it would mean for the country's position at all. So, the ministry did not work in accordance with the procedures of the CEMT permit and, accordingly, instead of a delegate issue to which I could later... I would like to propose in the follow-up the initiative I proposed a year ago when I spoke, so then Mr Tihić said, let's first see if there is any basis for any investigation committee at all, so I suggest I offer the House an initiative to set up an investigative committee to determine the circumstances for issuing CEMT licences for the year in BiH. And since the House of Representatives has already formed an investigative committee, my suggestion is that four members of the House of Nations just join the commission. So under 1. – To form an investigative committee of the House of Peoples of three members who would join the already formed Research Commission of the House of Representatives. The commission's task is to determine all the circumstances surrounding the issue of CEMT licences for 2009 to domestic carriers. The Commission's findings should be notified to SIPA and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Under 2. – To launch an initiative on the ban on participation in the distribution of CEMT licences for 2010 to all members of the competent board of the Ministry of Transport and Communications who shared the permits for 2009. Within 3 months of the constitution, the Commission will draft a report and deliver it to the homes for consideration and adoption. So, as part of the answer, which is complex because it's complex and extensive material that I got, I also offered this initiative. I expect the House to determine this, as soon as a campaign against corruption is launched a few days ago, and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should set an example to show that it is in agreement. The second question is the question addressed to the Ministry of Defence and has been related – on the basis of which legal acts has Assistant Defence Minister Ahmet Omerović drawn up a decision on the use of a BiH Armed Forces helicopter, which suggested that the use of the same by the Islamic Community be approved? How is this act sanctioned by the Department of Defense? I'd like detailed written information on the same. 6 And secondly – How did it come and who is responsible for causing scandals by BiH Armed Forces members from Bihac, by emphasising the Islamic religious community's banners on the Manjac polygon? How are the sanctioned defendants of this incident? So, what are the answers? None. There's no answer to either question. I've got a lot of things written here. What I would like to remind all of us that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is exercising democratic control over the Armed Forces and all BiH-level institutions, that it is also considering the use of the Armed Forces and I, not only as a delegate, but as a member of the Defence and Security Commission, have the right to have a quality answer to that question? And what did I get? That the Defence Act, according to the ministry's reply, and other laws establishing the area of civil military co-operation, explicitly neither approve nor prohibit the use of BiH Armed Forces helicopters, nor define the end use. And I would now like to say that the minister forgot that in the Law on Defence, in Article 44, it states that the Armed Forces units can be deployed to assist the civilian authorities only in the case of natural and other disasters and accidents, in accordance with the instructions brought by the defence minister. So I didn't get the answer. And as for the other issues related to the emphasis on the Islamic religious community, the question was practically not answered, because it was said that the gathering of information was under way, but I received another information, not only was the flag of the Islamic religious community in Manjaca, it was also the second flag of the BiH Army that was in the tent, and the person passing by wrote a report on it, two flags, only this one was in the tent, it was not so visible, therefore, the flag of war, and the trip from Bihaq was called “The second time for Banja Luka”. So, I shouldn't say the consequences of such behaviour within the defence forces can be for BiH at such a delicate moment. And the third I got, when I set it up, at the 21st session, means, since 17.9.2008, from the Ministry of Security. Apparently, the deputy minister was cleaning up an old archive that was in the Ministry of Security and found it appropriate that one of the delegates from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was left unresponsive, so he made an effort to explain. I'm not satisfied with the condition. I am grateful to him that I have received the answer at all, for we will soon be grateful to all those who provide us with the answer. On that principle, this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6282	Thank you very much. As far as this proposal concerns...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6283	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6284	Sure, go ahead. It's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6285	7 Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests. I have a need, and it seems to me a parliamentary obligation to respond to my colleague Majkić's comment on the answers she received on the questions she asked about the request to use a helicopter by the Armed Forces. In a response, she said the answer was unsatisfactory and that it was not an answer and called for another part explaining under what conditions the Ministry of Defence puts at the disposal of a helicopter or not. However, she avoided explaining why she had asked us, not hypothetically, whether it was asked by the Ministry of Defence to use helicopters by reis-ul-ul-ul-leme, but found that the Ministry of Defence had requested the use of helicopters from the Reis-ul-ul-ul-ul-ul-ezema Mustafa Cerić and asked for a response to the sanctioning of the procedure, I don't know, Deputy Defence Minister. In response, it was clearly stated that Reis-ul-ul-Ulema Cerić had not made any request, that the Ministry of Defence had not received any oral request from the reis-ul-ul-ul-leme, and it was correct, since the press had also informed the issue that my colleague Majkić had put in place, in a manner of finding, in a way that the reis-ul-ul-ul-ul-lema had requested the use of a helicopter, and we can see from the defence ministry's answer that there was no such request at all. And it was time for my colleague Majkić to explain to us, the BiH Parliament, and thus to the public, on the basis of which she asked for an answer to the question, as she asked, and the question was therefore referred to the finding, not a hypothetical question, but a conclusion that the reis-ul-ulema of the Islamic community, Mustafa Cerić, requested the use of a helicopter and that the deputy defence minister prevented the implementation of the request, which was to be carried out by Mr Ahmet Omerović. This is about the most incorrect representation of things and I think Mrs Dušanka Majkić was obliged to introduce us on the basis of which she misinformed both us and the public with the question she asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6286	Well, you see, like this, just a little bit to clarify about these questions and answers to some of the questions, because even the Rules of Procedure is not clear to the end, how long can it take to comment on the question, how long can it take, we have seen that it can last for a short while, and can it take an extremely long time to last, and do we have the right after such a comment, do delegates have the right to ask questions, correct the wrong allegations and everything else?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6287	... business intervention right on the subject. [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6288	Here, we are here, the secretary suggested that I read, about, how we should behave here in the future, on some principle of analogy, it is not clear to the end, but, the envoy, he says, would ask a three-minute question, then the BiH Council of Ministers and the resolution minister would get a word in the same duration. After that, the envoy may comment on the answer or ask a new question in 8 minutes. So that's about how we should behave. It's not anticipating some of the blames and controversy now, because I'm afraid it would go too long then. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6289	I welcome all colleagues and colleagues and all present. So, this is a business intervention that's partly now said in this, although this is not happening to us at the beginning of the session, it could lead to this business provision. It is a business provision that speaks of sessions, MPs ask, delegates ask, and the BiH Council of Ministers responds, which the Rules of Procedure regulated to be held twice a year, so every 6 months. By analogy, this could be applied, but what has now happened, we have never had this in the BiH Parliament, in the House of Peoples, to ask a regular, according to the Rules of Procedure, questions to certain institutions clearly specified in our Rules of Procedure, including the OHR, to come to the answer that the representative who asked the institution's question gets a replica of one of the colleagues here. How's that supposed to be business, what Mr. Tihić read now? The MP asks, answers the institution, the MP has two more minutes' rights, therefore, in relation to the institution issue, and the institution, or individual, or the resolution minister who follows it here, ends with a newly appointed response within two minutes and the story is over. It's a dialogue between the MPs and the questioner, whoever he is. For this reason, I think it is inappropriate, and businessly unsustainable, that the representative, after a statement of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the question he has raised and the answer he has received, should replicate someone as the third person in that dialogue between MPs and institutions. So that's what I find unnecessary and business injury. I ask you, if you respect this explanation, I have not said anything but brought you into the frameworks of the Rules of Procedure and I ask that we continue to respect it until we regulate it in a different way. And immediately, according to this story, I would also like to comment on Mrs. Majkić's proposal that we here today declare an initiative in relation to the award of CEMT licences for international road traffic. I think it's also contrary to our regulations of the Rules of Procedure. It's absolutely legal and legitimate to ask, we've already heard the contents of this initiative, this initiative has to give us all enough space to see what's going on before the plea, that's one thing. Secondly, it must be a regular item of the agenda, it must come to the College, perhaps for the next session, until then to all MPs of the initiative and that we can then discuss whether she, first of all, will decide whether she will go. I think she's legal, legitimate, and I don't know why we should stop her from going into the agenda, and when the initiative's on the agenda, then we'll discuss her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6290	Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić also reported, probably around the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6291	9 Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies, military commissioners, media representatives, international organisations, respected guests. Yes, it's about the conduct and respect of the Rules of Procedure. So, we're in our session, the agenda is set. This is one of the agenda points. It is true what you said, the chairman, about asking business questions, but it is also true that in the Rules of Procedure, in Article 64, at each point of the agenda, it therefore foresees the possibility that each MP should speak about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and the correction of the quotation. It is, therefore, the right of MPs to have both a replica and a business intervention at each item of the agenda, including a point called – Answering by Answers and Asking Questions. So, especially considering the fact that, here, as a colleague said, the commentary answer is as it is... done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6292	Then I'll have to. If there's an open polemic, then I have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6293	Okay, here you go, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6294	The Ministry of Defence has prepared a decision to use helicopters based on an oral order from the defence minister. So, the documentation exists, for the next session I'll bring it to you. And if the minister hadn't gone on the road, that decision would have been signed and no one would know anything about it. Unfortunately, his deputy was then the only one in the ministry and he refused to sign the document. So it's not a story by heart, it has a document for everything I've said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6295	Here, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6296	Well, look, when we open a debate like this, I also need to say something. I believe that, regardless of the interpretations of the Rules of Procedures of distinguished colleagues who have more experience in parliamentary life than I do, the unresponsibly spoken by the speaker must not be irresponsible, no matter what quality and what occasion it is given. I agree that we shouldn't be responding to just asking questions, but to the comments on the answers I think that the envoys here, the delegates, we have the right to answer. However, there was one thing that bothered me here that Mrs. Majkić said in this other reaction, which is frightening to me. She said, therefore, on the oral order of the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6297	That's what 10 says.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6298	Who is this, how do you know what a warrant is, what the minister said orally?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6299	I'll show you the document. I'll show you the document.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6300	Okay, let's move on. It is true that comments sometimes require the reaction and corrections of the wrong allegation, but it is in the course of the making of the Rules of Procedure, so we can also make this question, these points of the agenda, as some specific points, even more precisely regulate, so that we do not stay too much on these issues. But it is also important that all delegates be as concise as possible and that they may not create a cause for controversy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6301	If it's all right with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6302	You can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6303	Thank you very much. Let's just end this story. I really had a good intention not to open the debate, because that's what the Rules of Procedure prevents. It prevents the Rules of Procedure from replicating questions and answers and from opening discussions that do not involve the one who asked the question and the one who gave the answer. It's the only two participants in the dialogue form who can discuss it. Our Rules of Procedure is a lex specialis for us, I would warn my colleague Rančić, I respect his legal knowledge and experience, but here is not enough. So we should look at our Rules of Procedure, every act, every provision of every law. So when we want to challenge, commend, or modify a norm, we need to look at how the issue is fully regulated. We have Chapter VIII, look at it in Rules of Procedure on page 100, article 144 speaks of envoy questions, not to mention, we know how to ask them. Article 145 speaks of the submission of questions, 146 on oral answers. Article 147 speaks of the answers in the manner in which they must be in writing, in which they are delivered, when the chairman receives an answer as to what he does with it and says in paragraph 5. — If the answer is not provided within the time limit set out in paragraph 3 of this Article, the applicant may request from the College an entry into the agenda of the next meeting of the House. And now we have complete procedure. The article before is very important for what I want to say to you, when the president receives an answer, he sends the copy to the envoy who asked the question. The answer with 11 questions is made public. The president gives an opportunity to the envoy, who asked the asked question for a written answer, to indicate whether he was satisfied with the answer. See further, if the envoy is not satisfied with the answer, this is the point, paragraph 149 of this Rules of Procedure shall apply. And Article 149, paragraph 1 says – Questions are explained as follows. The envoy asks a question for up to three minutes, please, then the Council of Ministers of BiH or the resolution minister gets a word of the same duration, please. After that, the envoy can comment on the answer, so whose answer, so the BiH Council of Ministers or the minister or institution he asked, or ask a new question for up to two minutes. The BiH Council of Ministers or Resorm Ministers shall be given the same duration after which the chairman concludes the debate and gives his word to the next person empowered to speak. No replicas and no injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6304	So, we have Božo Rajić so Hazim Rančić, Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I intend, if I may try, to cut this series we started. So, regardless of the legal aspects of what colleagues are talking about, I believe that in every item of the agenda, a representative has Bogo-given right and duty to correct an incorrect assumption. And there can be no controversy about it. From my point of view, no norm in the Rules of Procedure should limit it. But that doesn't give us the right to compromise with the views of a representative who asks a question or comments on the answer. But the right to correct an incorrect quote is at every point, it's my opinion. I think, Mr. Chairman, the essential issue here is to make sure that MPs ask the question and comment on the answers received within the limits of the time that is assumed, let's turn it into an exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6306	Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić, then Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6307	Thank you very much. The esteemed deputy chairman, Mr Filipović, well started this last speech, but did not finish it as it began. He said that there was a need to take care of the application of the integrity of the legal act, which I absolutely agree with. And that means, when we do it all the way, that in the course of the session, well, here, and at this point of the daily question, it's not just Chapter VIII that applies. which reads - Department of Delegative Affairs, and I do not dispute what he insisted, but also all other general provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the course of the session. This is one item of the agenda, the course of the session, and it's fine and precise in 12 articles, as I told you, that in article 64, it's a general provision, that in every item of the agenda, it corrects the wrong quote, does business intervention and talks about it. So, the bottom line is that. And on the side now all of this, practically, for those who didn't apply this, every answer, anyone who asked a question, gets all MPs, all delegates. Why? To read, to get to know, to inform, but also to be able to react, to be able to participate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, not just for that. So, I can't, when I comment on my answers, I can't say incorrect allegations that aren't contained in that answer. That's why you all get it so you know what I get in answer. You get everybody else to know what's out there, so I can't tell you some stories that aren't answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6309	Mr. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I think that the moment you gave the word to your esteemed colleague Neimarlija you violated the Rules of Procedure and that you kept doing it by giving a word to everyone else who appeared in this story about the delegate question asked by Ms. Majkić and who had both the right and the ability to make a story and to discuss with the representatives of the Ministry. Everything else is absolutely unnecessary. It does not comply with Article 147. Rules of Procedure and Articles 149 and 150, which can be analoguely called upon when discussing this issue. So, I think it's absolutely unnecessary and that the chairman, giving the word in this way, even to me, continues to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6311	Okay. Thank you very much. Here, there's a difference of opinion on who's as right as possible. Perhaps through an amendment to the Rules of Procedure that is under way, we can resolve these issues too. But here, now, so I don't make a mistake, or, if I've already committed it, let Mr. Koprivica say so too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present to this session, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected colleagues and guests, media representatives. 13 I will propose that we reach a conclusion on this matter – to assign to the Constitutional Legal Commission that, in cooperation with the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, a concrete question of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the House of People, these questions, when it comes to asking questions and getting answers, i.e. replications on these issues and violations of the Rules of Procedure, we bring to that session of the Commission of One and the other home. And that in the procedures of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, among other things, and these controversial... that these situations in which we were in the future are not happening, that is, to propose appropriate additions to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6313	Okay. Thank you very much. And I think that's a good suggestion. Now let's move on, Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6314	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6315	Dear Ljubičić, do you want this first one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6316	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate you on taking the presidency of our House. I welcome all colleagues, colleagues, ministers, distinguished guests. I volunteered to simply give my comment and opinion on this question. I'm not going to slow down the interpretation of lawyers around the Rules of Procedure, I see we have a little bit of different attitudes and views on that side. However, listening to all these discussions, and listening primarily to Mrs Dušanka Majkić, her question and comment, I have the feeling that we are running away from the essence of the questions that Mrs Dušanka has asked. For me now, the essential question here is whether or not the helicopter was used under the Armed Forces Act. What I heard, what Mrs Dušanka commented, in my opinion, was not. So, for me now, that's one essential question, use, here, so these technical means, or, I don't know what to call now, simply, everything else by the Secretary of Defense. Is this used under the Armed Forces Act or not? What I realized, I repeat, is not a fundamental question to me. All the other comments for me here are just running away from the essence of the questions Mrs. Dušanka asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6317	Not to comment further, I'm not challenging new polemics. Here, let's go, Zoran Kprivica. Asked a question at the 37th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6318	So at the 37th session, I asked a delegate question concerning the taking of special measures in banking and credit policy in BiH, in addition to making a decision on the possibility of 14 reprogramming loans to citizens who lost their jobs due to recession, i.e. legal persons who are in an extremely difficult situation due to credit over-indebtedness and economic crisis. First of all, these were measures to align interest rates with the EU, to carry out excessive profits outside the country, the liquidity of banks in BiH, more favourable loans for new employment, conditions of credit to the economy, subsidisation of business credits, agricultural credits, funding of priority sectors of the economy and the development of micro-energy projects, and credit to export-oriented production, and especially to prevent banking greening by already realised loans, the practice of applying variable interest rates. I asked the central bank of BiH and banking agencies. I received an answer to this question under the responsibility of the Central Bank of BiH. What is found here, the Central Bank of BiH undertakes to ask the first next coordination meeting with banking agencies – whether they intend to propose other measures to facilitate the consequences of the recession for citizens and legal entities in BiH; as well as the response from the Banking Agency in which it is said that, in order to further mitigate the negative effects of the global crisis, the Agency intends to make a decision on the temporary reprogramming of credit commitments and legal persons, which requires the consent of the IMF, as a condition from the signed stand by the arrangement. These are the answers to those questions. I can partially be satisfied with these answers, of course, if what is said here and continues to be realized in practice. That's the first question. The second question I asked was the repeated delegate issue from the 33rd session, I referred it to the finance ministry, i.e. the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate, and it was about the procedure for goods taken from border crossings in BiH, because they have some information that large quantities of these goods fail at the headquarters of indirect taxation, although its value, according to some data and some information, exceeds over 50 million KM. I asked the question – How valuable is this goods, how much has the Administration held an auction for the past five years? I received an answer in the sense that the IRS has a total of 9.574,000 KM value of goods at the warehouses, and for the remaining unrated goods, commissions for the assessment of the same are formed. That's exactly what the main problem is. Therefore, if the correct information is that there are about 50 million goods in the warehouses taken in customs procedures, that it is located in warehouses, that deadlines go by, that goods fail, that no activities are taken that are prescribed by those acts which regulate the instructions, that is, sublegal acts, the instructions to be carried out by the sales procedure, or the destruction of the goods. And concrete measures have been proposed here in the sense that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is tasked with proposing criteria for the distribution of income from indirect taxes. Of course, under these criteria, the distribution of this goods that has been seized has failed to be sold at auctions. I think these are very important questions. This response, therefore, can be partially satisfied, however, I request and request that these procedures, which are prescribed by these acts, be literally in practice and implemented. Because if it is true that the values of these goods, which fail at the warehouses of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, are 50 million marks, I think that measures must be taken urgently in terms of regulating these issues, speeding up the procedures of auctions, and also the distribution of goods, especially wide-use goods that are so necessary for many categories of socially endangered people in BiH, refugee centres and others most needed, so that these goods do not fail at warehouses. So, in part, I accept this answer, but I really think it is necessary and necessary that the Board of Direct 15 Taxation, in accordance with these acts and regulations, speeds up these issues. In order to determine the exact value of the goods as soon as possible, only 9 million values of the goods have been found here, and the remaining unrated goods are not mentioned at all, i.e. only in principle. And I think that question really needs to be resolved in the future as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6319	Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6320	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I've got the answers to three questions. I'll start by commenting on this which is the oldest in the time of the appointment. So I got a response after 15 months from the BiH Council of Ministers. I asked the question on September 17, 2008, and here's the answer for this session. The question was – What is the BiH Council of Ministers doing to protect foreign savings, especially for foreign exchange savings they had in non-domestic banks, such as the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka Belgrade and other non-domestic banks? Of course, I'm not happy with the answer, and here's why. And after waiting, then, for 15 months, they failed and took some measures, to which they were obliged, and neither did they make the right answer. In the first part of the answer, they claim that this problem is legally not regulated. This is not true because the Law on the Alignment of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign exchange savings account, therefore, the Law published in 2006, the amendments in 2006 and 2007, stipulates, therefore, in Article 1 of the BiH Council of Ministers' obligation to take measures, therefore, the provisions of Article 1 prescribe the obligation to take measures, to provide all necessary assistance to these citizens who have old foreign currency savings in non-domestic banks. So, the law also refers to the old foreign savings related to BiH, but it also prescribes the obligation of the BiH Council of Ministers to do everything they can to protect these citizens from enjoying their rights. The second thing, at the same time, the BiH Constitutional Court, considering a measure of certain citizens' appeals, for the purpose of seeking an old foreign exchange savings from the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka Belgrade, took the view that there is no, therefore, responsibility of BiH for paying off old foreign currency savings to the Ljubljanska Banka, but that BiH is responsible for failing to effectively protect the rights of applicants for the peaceful enjoyment of their assets. The ruling is AP 164/04 of 1 April 2006. So, besides, here are the provisions in the law, we also have a ruling from the BiH Constitutional Court that they are obliged to take measures to protect citizens. They didn't do it. The BiH Council of Ministers also tried, a rule of some working group, had some initiatives, and at one of its meetings, at 56th session, since 24.7.2008, the Council of Ministers adopted an initiative and conclusion that it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and the Refugees that within a month of the day of adoption of that initiative, therefore, it was April 2008, meaning that their deadline was final in May 2008, to prepare, the said ministries, the proposal for a strategy of the moderation and how to resolve old foreign exchange savings at the Ljubljana Bank, the Invest Bank of Belgrade and other non-domicile banks. They didn't do any of that. They are bound by law, bound by the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling. Here, and they even, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, took certain initiatives, but unfortunately they didn't do anything about it. 16 So I'm unhappy, the answer is incorrect, they said this isn't legally regulated, and it is. I cited the facts and they didn't do anything about this question. I'll ask one more question. The second answer is, my second question was – Is the BiH Law Department College working? They wrote how they work. The point is that in a year, in these 14 months, they held 16 + 3 sessions of the College. So 16 of those who make up the College, the Attorney General and two deputies, and three sessions of the Expansive College. Although, according to their act, according to the Rules of Procedure on the Labour of the Ombudsman and, according to their September 2009 conclusion, they should have had between 50 and 60 meetings of the Colleges by now. This is important because, according to their Rules of Procedure, all important issues in the handling of the Ombudsman are being debated, i.e. they need to be discussed, at the Advocates' College. Instead of 50 to 60 sessions, they made a commitment to hold sessions each week, and each month extended, they held only 14 sessions. I hope they respect both the law and their rules of procedure in the future. And I'm going to put up with an initiative about this, because I saw that there was no legal regulation of the defense attorney's actions in the exercise of the defence function. Third answer comment. The question was – Does the Board of Appeal, as a second-degree body, have a rule on organisation and systematization of business in the procurement process? I got an answer from both the Justice Department and the Board of Appeals. The Office's answer is on some 27 pages, I didn't know it was such a difficult question, it's simple to answer the question – do you or don't you? There's a way to process how to get that act. And believe me, I don't get it from this whole thing again. So the essence of the Justice Ministry's response is that the Board of Appeals did not follow the BiH Council's conclusion of the 11th session since 2007. So he did not install any remarks insisting on the BiH Council of Ministers and since he did not act on the orders of the BiH Council of Ministers, so they do not have this very important act for their work. The Justice Ministry's reply has been since 18.11.2009. However, in response to the Office for Appeals, the BiH Department of Justice, 29.9., argues, when sending a letter to the Office for the Review of Appeals, so – to end the procedure for the application of the Internal Organisation of the Office for the Review of Appeals, we again inform you that the BiH Ministry of Justice has discussed the harmonised text of the Proposal for a Regulation, and thus concludes that the Office for the Review of Appeals has acted in the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Justice since 2007, in line with the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers which has been given consent to the text of the Regulations. According to this second act, they claim to have acted in the Office and they have a rule. I mean, after so many answers and writings, it doesn't seem clear to them either whether there's this act that's a condition for the operation of this second-degree body. I will not insist again, I hope, on this issue, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, the resolution ministry and the Board of Appeals will finally resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6321	Thank you very much. Now, it's my turn, isn't it? 17 On my question of ethnic representation in the main positions of BiH institutions, I received an answer that clearly shows that Bošnjak are represented in 21 positions, or 31.82%, Srbin 27 positions, or 40.91%, Hrvat 16 positions or 24.24%, and remained in two positions or 3.33%. I am satisfied with the answer, I am not satisfied with the situation, because I do not think it is in accordance with the Constitution to which there is a need to ensure proportionate representation and it is obvious that there is a national imbalance here at the expense of Bošnjak, which should be corrected in future work. Now I give my word to Slobodan Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, I want to ask one question, what's the point of our commenting on the answer if there's no representative of the Ministry here? So, with whom I comment, with honorary colleagues, with you, Mr. Chairman, and with no one from the Ministry, or with those who should be here and with whom I should share the criticism or share the satisfaction of the response delivered. So, just because I'm absolutely unhappy with the answer I got from the Department of Refugees and Displaced Persons, what does that mean if no one sits here? Who can take it and who can say my dissatisfaction? That is why I, Mr. Chairman, will express my dissatisfaction with my answer, but I am also asking to retain my right when representatives of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons are present at the next session, to tell them what these are problems in southern BiH, in the Municipality of Ravna, where there are huge problems of refugees and displaced persons who are not being resolved and which I was thinking today might ask another question. But I will wait the next 15 days to look at all the problems they really have down there, whether representatives of the cantonal ministry and representatives of the municipality will get more involved in their resolution or I will ask for help from the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent ministries. So, I'm absolutely unhappy with the answer I got. Unfortunately, I have no one to pass it on to, because the Ministry's representatives aren't here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6323	Thank you very much. Ivo Miro Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6324	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Co-chairmen, distinguished colleagues and all of you who are at this session today, I warmly welcome you. I must conclude, unlike my colleagues, I did not get an answer, but I got a paper that should serve as an answer. I wanted to wake up a sentiment, I thought there were people in this country who felt the tragedy of people. And when you get from an institution called the BiH Council of Ministers, in which it says that they only call me, it says that the State Agency for Investigations and 18 protection of available investigative capacities in the area of war crimes has made me available to the BiH Prosecutor's Office in connection with this, but also with others in the BiH area. That's all the answer. And my question was, we were witnesses recently, and I expressed my satisfaction, not by being dead, but by finding his remains, General of the BiH Army Avdo Palić. We all know that with the help of OHR, NGOs, civil society, the Council of Ministers, the Institute of Missing and all human rights institutions and agencies. And thank Bog, I repeat, it's done. But I also expected it, with the same mare and the same relationship, to be done and accompanied by General HVO in Bihac, General of the Vlade of Šantić. Instead of this initiative of mine, for the sake of justice, justice, equality, and it seems to me that we Hrvat are not welcome in this country to be equal. And, here, at this point I am practically lonely, although there are at least five people in this hall who can answer those three famous questions – who, when, where and what has he done? So, who took him, where did he kill him, and how is and who is this man who killed him? And I think there are tens of thousands of people in BiH. Interestingly, that's just not what the court and the prosecution are interested in. Since no case where crimes have been committed against Hrvat is interested in this famous BiH Court, in which, behold, foreigners and, I think, everything that has more foreigners is worse for us, I mean the Hrvat, because they haven't processed anything. Except that they are taken or accused, and then after two months they let themselves be defended from freedom in order to intimidate witnesses, and then the Hrvat must move, to places where they live under pressure and intimidation. So here, and this time, expecting to include OHR, the Council of Ministers, the NGO sector and the Missing Institute. The government of Šantić has no, his family, comrades, can't even light a candle, nor can flowers lay on earth's remains, and I said, and we all in this country know it. I have the right, here, to say this my suspicion, if it wasn't for this nationality, it would have been over long ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6325	Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question coincided in the same day, that what I wanted to finally be resolved, that BiH and its institutions would get the authentic text of the Dayton Agreement available, is the same day, according to an earlier initiative by Mr. Živković and some others, in this country, the most important document on which the entire life of this country should be organised. Now from the answer I received, therefore, I am pleased that this document finally came to BiH, but the answer did not give me details that would make me satisfied. Why? Because it is said in response that the Dayton Peace Agreement has been forwarded in the original English language as well as in the official languages of the constituent peoples in BiH, and that the annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement have only been forwarded in the original English version. So, I don't want to ask any new questions, and this is how I address the College of this House, and I hope that, if not now, at some other time, I can answer what I'm interested in, that my curiosity will be fully satisfied. So, if it is said that translations into all three 19 official languages of the constituent peoples in BiH have been delivered, I am interested – who made the translation, are these authentic translations that could be accepted as such? Secondly, it's... [[Shortly turned off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6327	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6328	I apologize, so - who's going to run a check on whether these three translations into official languages in BiH are essentially identical because there is a reasonable doubt that these translations are fundamentally different? Next, who will translate into the official languages of the constituent peoples of all the annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement, so that they can be credible as such? Furthermore, how is it intended to ensure that the original English text of the entire Dayton Peace Agreement and its full translations into the official languages of the constituent peoples in BiH are available for use in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. both at home? Perhaps these questions cannot be satisfied with the answers at this time, but I hope, Mr. Tihić, that you and your colleagues from the College can give me these answers at some other opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6329	Thank you. Sure. I have partial answers, but we'd better wait for the next session, so you have a complete answer. Now Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, that's the last comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6330	I thank you, Chairman. I'll just remind you a little bit, the issue was about proving excessive imports of certain goods into the BiH market. I have about received an answer that some answers are missing, because both in CEFTA and domestic legislation, there are requirements on the basis of which one such arbitration is brought. So, I am satisfied in part with the fact that there is now one three or four data to be provided. However, the data is very difficult to answer, and there is no prescribed methodology for how to reach them, and then manufacturers are forced to improvise to get some information and to deliver it here. Since there is no methodology for the production of this data, then you are left at the mercy of the clerk in some ministry, specifically here at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. A month ago, a broad meeting was scheduled here, so it was called by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, because he was assigned by the House of Representatives to present to the House what needs to be done and to help these people in production, so that this didn't go into the helicopter this way as it went. To make valid answers, the minister called on one commission, which he formed to protect domestic production, called on representatives of both parliaments, namely, the home of the BiH Parliament, I was in that capacity and was there at the meeting; the chamber one, the other and the third, etc., and some other important producers. One of the conclusions was that it absolutely had to simplify this way of proving excessive imports, as if it were an atomic bomb, you know. It says what to do, there's this in the VTO, if some imports are 25% higher in a given year compared to... imports over the previous three years, then imports are excessive, it's a quantity. But it's so complicated, here, practically, a year a group, which is well paid, can't get results. One of the conclusions at the meeting was that it had to be approached, therefore, that going to the House of Representatives would go as a conclusion, among other things, very important, to simplify the procedure of proving that excessive imports. Why did I tell this whole story? That's why, but here's why I don't have a talker, as Šaraba says, we're saying it to ourselves, but, here, to finish my job, there's no one from the Ministry, as far as I can see here, for foreign trade and economic relations, but I sincerely hope that this conclusion will be carried out now and that it won't wait a year to simplify that procedure. In the meantime, let's take another billion marks of damage. There, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6331	Thank you very much. Here, we've finished this part of the answer to the delegate's questions. And we had 15 questions. If we'd stuck to the Rules of Procedure for two minutes, that would have been 30 minutes, but, look, we've passed the hour, and now we're going over the questions. Here comes Mr. Hazim Rančić, then Slobodan Šaraba, then Zoran Koprivica. Here you go, Hazim.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6332	So, about the answers I got, I'm going to ask one question and one initiative. So, my delegate question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, since, with the initiative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, since 24.7.2008, they have been in charge of developing a strategy for the modality and way of resolving old foreign exchange savings at the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka Belgrade and other non-domestic banks – Why and after 20 months, their deadline was a month, they did not form and propose a strategy to the BiH Council of Ministers? When will he propose a strategy for the moderation and way of resolving old foreign savings, and what were they obliged under the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the 2006 old foreign savings account, according to the Constitutional Court of BiH, AP 164/04 since 1.4.2006 and the BiH Council of Ministers' Conclusion of 24.7.2008? 21 My initiative is according to the Council of Ministers of BiH – To be in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up a bill on the handling of the Ombudsman in the exercise of the defence office, which is mandatory under the Law on BiH's Defence. By way of derogation from Article 17(1) of the Treaty, The BiH Law on the Defence of BiH, it is prescribed that BiH's Rules of Procedure should be governed by the BiH Attorney's Office's conduct in proceedings before courts and other institutions until the relevant law is passed to which these issues will be settled. Since it has been seven years since the adoption of that Law on the Defence, it is necessary to pass a law governing the conduct of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6333	Mr. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer my question to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, which is – What are the persons in BiH who provide operational security services? The report on the work of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, which we recently discussed at the Commission's Defence and Security session, found that there are 19 persons in BiH who provide operational security and security services by place of residence. Since they haven't listed their names, I'm asking the State Investigation and Protection Agency to get their names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6335	Thank you very much. Mr. Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My delegate question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Justice, and that is -- When will BiH and Croatia and BiH and Serbia sign bilateral amendments and amendments to the Agreement on mutual enforcement of prison sanctions, in order to permanently make it impossible for convicts in these three countries of the region to avoid penalties that have been imposed on them? It is evident that dozens of prison sentences have fled to another country of the region, where they have residence and citizenship, and thus, practically, escaped prison. By signing these amendments to the agreement, in the event of escape, the State which imposes the sentence may request that it be executed, and the convict will have to maintain a sentence in the country where he is or will return to the country in which he is convicted. This is of enormous importance for justice in these areas, as 22 questions are already being asked with full law whether it makes sense to impose sentences in courts if the convict will escape, using the current situation and legal regulations in the region. According to latest information, activities are under way to sign the agreement with Serbia, while the same agreement with Croatia is not being signed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6337	Thank you very much. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6338	Mr. Chairman, at the beginning, I would like to congratulate you on taking over the presidency. I have three parliamentary questions to ask. I ask the first question to the BiH Council of Ministers, in particular the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – What are these competent institutions and other institutions doing to encourage and ensure the conditions for the sustainable return of exiles and refugees to RS, i.e. what do they do to prevent obstructions of the return and the exercise of the rights of returnees, especially in the municipalities of Bosnia Posavina? Short explanation: After a long period, in half of 2008, from Slavonski Brod, citizens' books and books for Croatian settlements of Dervent, Bosanski Brod, Shamac, Modrič and others were returned. Unfortunately, even today, Hrvat cannot get a conviction about citizenship, birth certificate and other documents. When they come, for example, to the Dervent municipality counter, they are sent in tens of kilometers away by the parent office in the Serb part of the municipality, as previous parent offices were moved from where they were earlier. They don't find a mothermaker there on a regular basis and they don't find it in a circle. In the Dervent municipality alone, there are over 20,000 citizens, and tens of thousands are measured in Posavina territory. In Dervente's territory alone, more than three thousand Hrvat voters were removed from the voter lists and the vote was disabled for past local elections, the Central Election Commission's decision. Neither did the repeated committee questions get a satisfactory answer, let alone a solution. I ask questions – How can these people apply to biometric passports tomorrow? This kind of behavior of administration is actually a continuation of ethnic cleansing by other means and in other times. I ask the second question to the BiH Council of Ministers, especially the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and to the Government and the Assembly of the RS – What do these institutions do to ensure the inalienable right of property of persons, exiles and refugees from the RS who have not returned for various reasons, cannot return and thus are unable to use their property, especially land property, and the law forces them to pay taxes on that property, with the possibility of losing it. Namely, in the RS, there is a new Land Act which obliges individual owners of the country to report their land and property on it, in order to... property tax. The deadline by March 31st is two thousand ten years, so three more months. The law makes the difference between 23 owners and the country's users, and even the possibility that, over the course of 15 years, the user becomes the owner of the country. I think, at the very least, the areas that were destroyed in the war, and the residents being exiled, should be excluded from the law, because the entity should ensure the restoration, allow productive use of the property, and only then seek a tax on property. Otherwise, this cannot be characterised differently but as a continuation of ethnic cleansing by other means and in other times. I remind you that there have been attempts in the Republic of Croatia to pass a similar law and, as far as I know, Mr. Pupovac's intervention has been suspended. The third question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of the Council of Ministers of BiH – Was there, during the distribution of CEMT and bilateral permits from other countries, for 2009 the application of selective criteria to carriers from two entities, i.e. whether the carriers from one entity were favoured or damaged in relation to carriers from another entity? We have also witnessed these days of campaigning from the RS entity, which lasts for almost a year, which is trying to show that RS carriers, during the distribution of CEMT and bilateral permits for 2009, are damaged by carriers from the Federation of BiH. And these days media pressure is being made, even through political parties from the RS, to step down from the regulations and the application of so-called. ‘guaranteed quotas’ for carriers from one and the other entities, independent of the criteria. I'd say, and some questions and campaigns in this House here have a completely different background than they're trying to present here. I want to make it clear that I do not want to amnesty in advance to anyone who works in BiH institutions or commissions. After all, according to my information, the SIPA is investigating the allocation of CEMT and bilateral permits for the period until 2006 and is already investigating it for 3-4 years and has not yet come out of view. And today it would be prejudge here in this home to make a pre-declaration of irregularities or worse crime, until the competent institutions do their job. And I will absolutely support all initiatives, and even in this House here, which will enter the procedure in a business way to make this Parliament known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6339	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6340	Thank you very much. My first envoy issue is heading towards the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At a meeting of delegations of committees for European integration of parliaments of the Western Balkan and Southeast European countries, held in Belgrade on 27 November and 28 November this year, it was offered by the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Croatian language of 150 thousand pages of law and other legal acts from EU member states, believing that such an offer could facilitate those countries that would take over this materials for free in order to make it easier, faster and simpler for their countries to use these documents to bring their legislation into line with the European one. 24 Several members of delegations from the participating countries accepted with joy, Serbia and even Macedonia, although not the same language or close, accepted such an opportunity and thanked. The EU Parliament's present representatives enthusiastically accepted the proposal with a comment on an extremely expensive and long-term job that can make it easier for countries in Southeast Europe. However, after a few days, in all presses and electronic media, BiH Deputy Foreign Minister Ana Trišić Babić declares -- Serbian from BiH is not the same as Serbian from Serbia, and Croatian BiH is not the same as Croatian from Croatia, referring to the language, noting that BiH in Europe will not have the right to three cabins, thinking of translation services, when we are one day, if Bog does, to an EU member. I am interested, since when does he become an expert on the issue of language, justice and justice and the application of justice in BiH, and whose view on the right to use the official language in BiH is this excellent linguisticist? What language is Croatian in Croatia and which Croatian in BiH? Is that different we have dictionaries, do we have... morphology, do we have different standards, do we have different spellings? That's what I'm asking the Ministry to answer, because I don't know whose name she's on? What solution, in its view of one cabin, does the lady offer to unit BiH, one nation, one language and one state? It is likely that such proposals at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs count on the spending of huge financial resources that they will also control times. However, neither finance nor time, we must admit that BiH is not there. My second question was, above all, the Office of the High Representative, the Election Commission and the Government of the Federation of BiH. A year ago, municipal elections were completed, so I ask – When will the Constitution of the Federation of BiH cease in the Municipality of Gradacac, in order to realize the solution that stands in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, that not the head and chairman of the Municipal Council can be of the same people, as is the case now in Gradac. Namely, by amendment 54 to the Constitution of the Federation of BiH...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6341	Just turn on the microphone. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6342	...to the Amendment, meaning 54th, the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, since 15.4.2004, Article 6(3), paragraph 5, clearly specifies this obligation at the level of the municipalities. The chief, therefore, and the chairman of the Municipal Council cannot be of the same people. According to the '91 census. In the municipality of Gradac, there were 56,000 people, 59% of Bošnjak, 19% of Srbin, 15% of Hrvat and 5% of Jugosloven. After the 2008 local elections, Mr. Adem Hamić, Bošnjak, won the mayor of the Municipality of Gradac, and that is fine, which then required the chairman of the Municipal Council to be from another constituent people, but Mr. Fadil Imširević was elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6343	The other way around. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6344	Thank you very much. So, also the Bošnjak. I want a hasty response if they haven't responded in a year, and above all I mean OHR, Election Commission and the Federation of BiH Government. Also, in order to avoid confusion, a report of the 2008 municipal elections ballots found that Mr Hamić and Imširević, in the section of nationality, pleaded as Bošnjak. I would like to note this 25 for the reason that, after the first constitutive session of the Municipal Council, the public was told the truth that the chairman of the Municipal Council came from the order of the Others, that somehow he pleaded otherwise. However, I own ballots for elections in which both are Bošnjak. And it's not a dispute, though, but this injustice needs to be corrected. And my third question concerns the BiH Council of Ministers, but I would like all ministries to answer that, which I doubt. Namely, the Council of Ministers made a decision on the conditions and manner of admission of the exercise class VII in 2006. I ask them a question, to all ministries – How much they respected this decision and Article 3(3), paragraph 3, provides for the obligation of all BiH institutions to receive no less than 4% of the total number of civil servants' posts and other employees of the VII level of professional training. It should also be noted that the same decision, in Article 4, and the receiving of volunteers is understood, but if we are in such a situation where we need, in a limited part of the spending, I would understand... But I would also point out that my question, my interest in this, is how to ensure that young people go into a more active relationship with the future of BiH and how we would rather tie these young people to work than to the street and go abroad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6345	Thank you very much. Here, I join this issue of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović, when it comes to the Mayor. I, truth be told, if I could be free to comment, set it up in Gradac and asked it to be respected, however, they then explained that the administrative boundaries of the municipalities are now, due to the entity line, different and that the national composition of the population is different than it was in '91. years, but it is best for the Election Commission to take a position on this and make the right decision. Here, we ended up this way all the answers to the delegates' questions, the questions asked, we need to finish this item on the agenda. Two initiatives have emerged. One initiative by Mrs. Majkić on the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the circumstances for issuing CEMT licences for the 2009 transport to BiH and Mr. Rančić's initiative on foreign exchange savings, I think. In light of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, and in consultation in the College and with the Secretary, I believe that these initiatives should go to the College or to the agenda for the next session, directly at the sitting itself, when it comes to, behold, delegates... But we can take and consider the College and then put it on the agenda for the next session, if we accept. We shouldn't be making any decisions under this point, in that sense, about forming a commission or anything else. So this will go towards the College, and the College will determine the agenda for the next session. And the conclusion, about, arises from all these discussions, that this matter of the Rules of Procedure, i.e., the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the different interpretations that have been heard today, is being delegated to this committee, which is done by the Rules of Procedure of this House, that is, the entire Assembly, to remove these certain differences that exist between us and that this item of the agenda would also be reduced to those frameworks that need to be done by the Rules of Procedure, both on time and in any other way. Can we adopt a conclusion like this? Who's in? Do you mind? 26 Detained? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. The adoption of the 38th session of the PSBiH People's House Is anyone answering their word? If no one answers, we can vote. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the same text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Ombudsman
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6348	Fellow delegates, you have received a report from the Commission and I, in accordance with the content of the Report, invite you to support it, as did your colleagues from the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6349	Thank you very much. I'm putting the report to the vote. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. 27 I agree that we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the same text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Commission on text alignment. The joint committee for text alignment has adopted five amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the bill. I give the word to Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6351	I also propose, Mr. Chairman, since the report all mentions the five amendments proposed by the Joint Commission to the House for adoption, to accept this report and to adopt this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6352	Thank you very much. I'm putting the report to the vote. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I also find that we unanimously adopted this report. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples In accordance with this Article, the House shall decide on a request for consideration under a shortened procedure after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the BiH Council of Ministers for the draft law to be considered under a shortened procedure. 28 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? He's not answering. _________(?) We lack quorum from the order of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6357	Okay, well, I haven't done well in these papers yet, but I'd say next. Our Committee held its session of the Constitutional Commission on... with the BiH legal system, Proposal 29 of the Law on the Agency for Prevention and Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. It's still 13.10, I miss the leaf, so I'm stuttering.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6358	Is there anyone else with the Constitutional Commission... IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6359	Wait a minute, I'll do it now, but I think it's my colleague Koprivica who's in charge of this, so that's why I wasn't getting ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6360	Okay, no problem. Here, then, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6361	Here, I'll do it for you. You have all received a report on the Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency and we have previously agreed that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law, that the Law is in line with the Constitution of BiH, that it may be referred to a further procedure. At the last session, the House discussed the Law, and we returned the report to the Commission for review. At that session, we accepted a total of 11 amendments. You have received in this report the text of these amendments, all of what was the subject of the debate at the last session. Those remarks that were, we have considered and suggested to the House that these 11 amendments, this report finally accept and accept the Law in the text as delivered for this session. So I don't need to explain individual amendments individually. I think that the main amendments tabled by Mr Rančić, i.e. the amendments tabled by the other delegates, were accepted at this session. So, we need to make a decision, or we need to make a decision, I suggest we make a decision on the adoption of the law with these 11 amendments and set up a committee to bring the text of the law with the commission to be appointed by the House of Representatives, since they have adopted the Law without any amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6362	Thank you very much. Before I open the debate, I give my word to delegate Hazim Rančić, since he has an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6363	Thank you very much. So, based on our discussion and the debate at last session of the House of Peoples, the decision of the People's House extended the amendment phase, and me and my colleague Ivo Miro Jović submitted amendments to this law, and they concerned the determination, among other things, of the place where corruption can happen, by definition of corruption, corruption. So, the local level was kicked out and I made amendments to the number of deputies, as well as to the authority of the deputies, since in the basic text of the law, no word was prescribed what the deputy was doing. Through the adoption of the amendments, I think one colleague of Ivo Mire Jović was included in my first amendment to the Constitutional Commission. So it also covers the local level, the level of the municipality and the city. And the second, third and fourth amendments didn't accept me. Here, I decided to, first, second and third amendments submit to the House to try again to defend. Of course, I said last time, and this time, our club will support the adoption of this law. And why I chose to submit the amendment, I'm going to say a few sentences about it. So, my first amendment refers to Article 3, paragraph 1, point d), is about the meaning of the term in the Law. And according to this law, only the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations are considered under budget. My amandman I. extends the meaning of the word of the budget, not only to the Budget of BiH, but also to the budgets of entities, cantons, Brcko District, municipalities and cities, as well as the budgets and financial plans of administrative organisations, services, institutions with public authority, public enterprises, public institutions. Why? Because if we want to have an agency and if we want to define corruption and if we said that it can happen at all levels of government, state, entity and so on down to municipalities and cities, then these things can happen and touch the budget. Not only BiH states, but also entity budgets, cantons, etc., etc. Otherwise, interpreting and giving meaning to certain terms, if we don't accept this first amendment of mine, and it doesn't make sense because the budget is only mentioned here and it says what the budget is. Well, I guess by the budget we mean other budgets, because by the definition of corruption, it can happen at all levels. The second amendment refers to Article 12(2), in order to delete number ‘2’ behind the word ‘have’. Therefore, the accepted amendment by counterpart Ivo Mire Jović is introduced in Article 12 that the director has two deputies. Why did I propose an amendment? Because according to the Administration Act, the Agency we establish has the status of administrative organisation, in the Administration Act, is in Article 7 – The authorities of the administration ensure the proper national representation of civil servants and employees in accordance with the national population structure, and according to the latest census in BiH. So, in the authorities of the administration, in administrative organisations, and the Agency that needs to be established, we need to have a proportionate representation, not a parity. This provision of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act is contrary to Article 7. The law on administration, which must also apply to the Agency. The other thing, in essence, why I am against the introduction of two deputies is that in the text of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in Article 16, or in any other member, Article 16 speaks about the Deputy Director, it absolutely does not write what the Deputy will do, in any single word. And what that means now, we're introducing two deputies, none of them are doing anything, and God Bog they're just waiting for a vacation or God forbid they're replacing him. And what's he gonna do these other 11 months, it doesn't say anything. So, basically, there's no need for two deputies to exist and it's contrary to that law. It's amandman II.. And my amandman III., which I have endured, here I repeat it and now, is talking about a complete replacement of Article 16. Therefore, Article 16 states – The provisions of this law relating to the Director of the Agency also apply to the Deputy Director of the Agency. Last time I explained, you can't apply a member of the 12th Director to the deputy. Why? Well, because it says here that the Agency is run by a director. So if Article 12 applies to the deputy, does that mean that the deputy is also in charge of 31 of the Agency. Of course he can't, the director is in charge, and only in his prevention or absence is he replaced by a deputy. And so the following, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth positions, therefore, cannot be applied to the deputy. Only the provisions of Articles 13, 14 and 15 may apply to the alternate. And then I prescribed it. — the Deputy Director shall carry out the tasks entrusted to him by the Director of the Agency. I think the deputy director of all 12 months should be doing something. He has so many responsibilities for the director and for the entire Agency that he is essentially, operationally to assist that director. A second position — The Deputy Director shall replace the Director in the event of his absence or of a refusal to perform his function. And the third position – Provisions of Articles 13, 14 and 15, so I have eliminated that Article 12, because it is impossible to apply, this law also refers to the appointment of a director, therefore, which relates to the appointment of a director, incompatible with the position of director, the resolution of the Director of responsibilities (?) apply also to the Deputy Director. Here, I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support these amendments. They lead to better text and more efficient work and the establishment of this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6364	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers the word, then we move on to Mr Ivo Miro Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6365	Since we've been discussing these amendments for a long time, I can say the following. Lately, we've had more and more moves on representation in the authorities' bodies according to the '91 census. A year. I call for my lack of guidance in the BiH Constitution and says, "Here, that's what it says here." I don't think it's written anywhere, and I don't need... One is governance, and the other is the number of employees in the institution. So, I have often spoken in both the media and the public – the United Nations should manage 100 Kinez, and 120 countries should choose between themselves 90 so that they can mate. However, as we know and... and China have one representative each. This is a country of three peoples, and in the authorities, no one argues that the number of employees should be on the list in '91, but administrative posts. Today we have one answer here, to such a similar question, Mr. Tihić says there are 16 Hrvat. And I will remind - in 11 institutions, of those 16, are people who rotate. Therefore, there are no 16 Hrvat, but there are 5 who operate certain institutions. So, different interpretations are not needed, but rather to advocate BiH, an equal community. And it doesn't say anywhere in the Constitution that institutions should be managed...but to be according to the '91 list. I repeat, no one will ask a question about the number of employees to answer, but the administrative posts must be parity, rotation and consensus. These are for BiH, for our country, the only three key words of its prosperity and the future. In this context, that is why I am saying, we have adopted my amendment that instead of the word "expensive" they should be "expensive". I also want to say, when it comes to budget funds, there was only BiH institutions. Well, probably, simply thinking about all the institutions they have in BiH, not putting the difference between entity, county, city, Brcko District, public enterprises, institutions, etc. Such a general formulation may have been better. But since the budget, as a constitutional category, has both BiH and entities, and the county, and the Brcko District Statute, we thought it was good to specify. And 32 budgets are part of the budget and those in which these institutions are managed and owned, and public undertakings, and institutions, etc. I think this is a more comprehensive form of the accepted amendment to this part than my colleague Rančić suggests.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6366	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6367	Thank you very much. I would, not to dispute my colleague Rančić's right to renew his amendments, which he did at today's session, and remain at his stand to support the conclusions and decisions of the Committee of this House which proposed the adoption of this very important law with amendments that are an integral part of the proposal for this law. So I will refer one sentence to this question, which Mr. Jović has troubled, following repeated demands in this house, that the system of proportion be introduced as a rule in this country. One of the reasons why I asked to receive the authentic text of the Dayton Agreement is to finally see what it actually says in Article 9, point 3. The BiH Constitution. Is it written there that elected, appointed officials represent the peoples of BiH or that they are elected and named on the basis of a '91 proportion. A year. Until then, I remain attached to the principle that there must be equal representation in management posts and proportionate in executive affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6368	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6369	Without intending to enter the controversy, I just want to say that the Constitutional Commission of our House, with four votes for, one abstention, no negative vote, has identified this kind of report as I have received, and in that sense we will not support these new amendments and I suggest we make a statement about the reports we have received.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6370	Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6371	When it comes to proportional representation, I made a very precise reference to the current Law and read it. So, the Law on Administration, "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 32/2002, says in Article 7 – The authorities of the administration ensure the proper national representation of civil servants and employees in accordance with the national population structure, and according to the latest list of 33 people in BiH. The Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and the Fight against Corruption, in Article 6. The law states that the Agency is an independent and independent administrative organisation that corresponds to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for its work. So this Agency is subject to the Administration Act, and it accurately prescribes this thing. Parity exists in certain institutions and is prescribed, such as in the BiH presidency, the House of Peoples, etc. So where it's prescribed, I don't dispute that thing and that's how it applies. And in the Administration Act, this is exactly what I've been calling myself to, and here, I've been verbally saying it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6372	Okay. We're going to make a statement now according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6373	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6374	Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6375	I'd really be happy if these lawyers didn't try to turn us into a schoolboy. One category, Mr. Rančić, is the administrative organisation and its number, and the other is the management category of the BiH institution. And we're not going to lead the controversy. Until we get a clear interpretation you'll keep your position, we who don't think so will keep our attitude and I really don't think there's any need to make sure of it. We have a proposal from the Committee, we have your amendments, in the procedure we'll get answers from most of them in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6376	Thank you very much. If there's no further discussion, let's go ahead and declare the amendments first, and then we'll talk about the whole bill. First we vote on amandman I., Mr. Rančić. Who's in? Against? I find the amendment has not passed. 5 votes are for, and 9 against... and 1 abstention, so 8 against and 1 abstention, 5 for. The amendment didn't go through. We vote on amandman II.. Who's in? Five for it. Who's against it? Eight against. Restraint? 1 abstention. We vote on amandman III.. 34 Who's in? Five's in. Against? Eight against. Restraint? 1 abstention. I find that this amendment has not passed either. Now we're voting on the bill. I call for a plea – who's in favour? Do you mind? So 13 for and 1 against. I find that the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency Act has been adopted. Since the Law has been adopted in various texts compared to the House of Representatives, we need to form a Commission to bring the text of the law into line. Are there any proposals from the members of the Commission? What does the Bošnjak Club say?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6377	We suggest the president of the club, Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6378	Hazim Rančić. The Hrvat club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6379	Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6380	Ivo Miro Jović. Is Koprivica here, who is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6381	Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6382	Okay. So we have the Commission – Hazim Rančić, Ivo Miro Jović and Zoran Koprivica. Shall we vote who's in? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that we have unanimously chosen the Commission to bring the text of the Law of the House of Peoples into line. 35 Point Seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: House of Representatives (second reading) This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's proposal. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. If Mr Ivo Miro Jović wants a word, go ahead. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6384	Mr. President, I don't have a need, I think that distinguished colleagues can see our opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6385	Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present? It's not. Okay. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6386	I would like to ask the chair of the Constitutional Commission, given the conclusions they have made, which are to say – to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Information in BiH in front of the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives, if any, because the Council of Ministers of BiH has delivered the Opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Proposal for this Law... I have not received any document from the BiH Council of Ministers on this. I would really ask the chairman to inform the House of People what happened to this conclusion. Have you given up on him or received the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I have not, has not come to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6387	Mr Ivo Miro Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6388	36 Thank you very much. In practice so far, well-taught, when I wasn't thinking about how, when it comes to the law, we should talk about the conclusion of that law, so I just shut up. When the vote goes through, then I want to point out that we have the conclusion that it becomes an integral part of the law. So I had a negative experience before, in previous practice, and that's why this conclusion we have here, we adopted it, and I want Dom to adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6389	But he's not, he's in college. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6390	Why? If you can, explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6391	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6392	So he says that until we consider the bill before the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH, it means, to this day. What does that conclusion mean when we now adopt the Law? I mean, I don't get it, really. Here, I'm asking you to explain or give up on me, to know that this conclusion is not valid. It's vaguely written. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6393	Dear colleagues of the president, i.e. the Vice President, we had before us a Law proposed by colleagues from the House of Representatives. Since the Council of Ministers did not show itself about this Law, and we, as the Constitutional Commission, had amendments and additions, i.e., demands, then we felt that amendments should be declared by the Council of Ministers of BiH. As that part has not been made known to this day, the only thing left for me is for the House to decide what to do with this Law. I think that we, as the Committee, were not against, we brought... but we thought that the Council of Ministers of BiH must be manifested. Until today, it wasn't obvious, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6394	Mr. Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that in this situation, the only solution we have left, and we have indeed reached the conclusion that, before we finally declare the fate of the Law on Freedom of Information in BiH, amendments and additions to the law mentioned, we will get the position and opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH. It is clear and it is known that in BiH more than 95% of the proposal comes from the BiH Council of Ministers in the form of a proposal. Given that this was not the case in particular, we have made such a conclusion to the Commission and suggested that a written position be requested, i.e., a statement by the Council of 37 BiH Ministers, following these amendments and additions to the Law, so that we have a clear picture and position and the Council of Ministers' opinion before making the final decision. We do not have that decision, and I therefore propose that the statement under this Bill proposal be postponed for the next session and that we seek the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6396	Here, we have a proposal now. It's probably in front of the club, right? I suppose Mrs. Majkić feels the same way. Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6397	I would ask everyone, especially my colleagues from the Committee, not to be put in this position. Really inappropriate, we have the law in front of us. Do we now, or, to our colleagues in the House of Representatives, deny their right to be legislators, and to ourselves, as a home,... the right to adopt that law. That's the first principle question. Do We Have to Get Atest(?) from the Council of Ministers of BiH or from some minister that the law, which is not from their kitchen, but from the kitchen of the lawmaker, would find a place in the BiH legislative system. That's the first one. Secondly, this opinion of you, your position, your conclusion, actually means nothing. What procedure? You delivered the law to us, after the law, which we have to make clear in the first place. ... opinion, possible opinion of the Council of Ministers or stop the law and ask the Council for an indication, which, in my opinion, is really out of my mind. Seeking a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers on the law which is a product, which was created in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, was created in a legislative body, and we are asking for a statement from the executive body, indeed, this is borderline of madness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6398	Mr. Koprivica wants the word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6399	I apologize for looking for the same word again. I don't think we understand each other very well. I really find this conclusion quite justified. First of all, for reasons, here, it is known, let's say, that at the end of every law, let's say from the Council of Ministers of BiH, we have an explanation detailing, let's say, the costs that will be caused by the adoption of a concrete legislative proposal. So, for this case, there's no such thing. Or, say, here's the next law we'll have on the agenda, too. Proposer House of Representatives or someone else, we don't have the Council of Ministers' position. Such laws that produce certain costs, which we do not have the Council of Ministers' position as executive authorities, I really don't think they are... that in the procedure we should necessarily obtain a position and an opinion, first of all, of the Ministry of Finance, because they require certain costs that are from the Budget, so the sole reason for our proposal was that, that moment, that moment. Niko one contests MPs, delegates, in the 38 House of Representatives, in this house, to be proposing, but the only reason we brought this conclusion to the Constitutional Commission was this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6400	Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6401	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So if we adopt this conclusion today, it will turn out that we are asking the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver its opinion. So they got our conclusion, they had time, they had the opportunity, they had the space to make a statement about it, and if they didn't do it until today's session, what we should do now. To beg them again to deliver their opinions. I find that really irresponsible, first of all, inconclusive of them for not delivering their opinions, it's inconclusive that we only have one minister here. And, of course, it would be unserious, on our part, if we were to ask them again to deliver something they didn't do. We will adopt it, so let them think afterwards, if there is any expense that this law will bear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6402	Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6403	Very short, just to get involved. So this act that we're discussing today came to us from the House of Representatives who accepted this in a second reading. There has been no amendment, nor has any amendment to this House been made by the Rules of Procedure. Here in reason, what someone said, I think it was Mr. Koprivica, in the light of this act, says that for the application of this law, to implement these amendments and supplementing this law, no financial resources are required. And if the House of Representatives has accepted this and if this is now at the debate in the House of Peoples, what sense, I would have to say and be even worse and more direct, it is pointless, therefore, that the proposal of the Constitutional Commission to seek a post-festum some sort of explanation or opinion of an act that has already been deeply trampled and come to an end in parliamentary procedure, should only be made manifest to this House. I suggest, as there has been no amendment, I suggest to the president that if there are no more new opinions, you conclude the debate and put this law in place, put the proposal for this law on the table. I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6404	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6405	Wait a minute, no reason for us to delay the decision on the proposal for these amendments and the addition of this law. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6406	Okay. Thank you very much. I'm putting this bill to the vote. Who's in? IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6407	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6408	Here, I thought the debate was closed. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6409	We just wanted to help, so we made a problem. And what were we trying to help with? (thinking that the right to access information, all those published in the Official Messenger, of information, when we discussed the law, so the conclusions, this conclusion was found by chance in this document, and it was supposed to be in the second document.)(?) And that's why I said, just for a moment, because we discussed the point behind the point, the Law on Access to Information and the Law on the Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And please let us be clear about this law. There were no amendments, his colleagues proposed him, although we have articles from our Rules of Procedure, 95, which said to be requested, within 20 days, from the Council of Ministers of BiH, we did not get that, there is nothing, nothing prevents us from saying today about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6410	Okay. Here, I'll put you to the vote. Who's in? That's, uh, 11 for. Who's against it? No one's against it. Restraint? Three abstentions. I find that the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6411	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6412	Okay, we don't have the entity majority. It's a match. We didn't achieve consent. We're going to the second round of voting. Again, who's in? 11 for. Who's against it? No one's against it. 40 abstentions? Three abstentions. I find that we passed the law because we don't mind, the law is passed, we don't have enough against it. The law has passed. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: PSBiH House of Representatives (second reading) This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law with one amendment, which became an integral part of the text of the Law. Again, I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6414	Here, as you can see, we only came to what we were just thinking. So, I apologize again, we're done. Here we had,... 3 votes we were in favour and 2 abstentions and accepted the text of the Law supplementing the law and concluded that the Law is necessary to adopt and propose to the House to adopt it. What was this about the amendment? We doubted that, if open and free access to all that the Official Messenger publishes, it would then come into the position of that institution, that when they, for example, are announced, competition or to be announced, I do not know, nor do I, which is important, which is an integral part of business and business, that it would not be good, but that those who want information of such nature, are finely buying the Official Messenger. And anything relating to the laws and sublaws to be published in... I think I'm clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6415	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present. It's not. I'm opening a debate. Ms. Majkić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6416	I'm saying that the Constitutional Commission here has made a good amendment and practically saved this law that way. But at the same time, we will support the law, but at the same time we propose to adopt one conclusion, which is that the initiative to regulate the legal status of the Official Messenger, which I submitted in 17.9.2008, at the 21st session of the House of Peoples, to this day, here, in a few..., I have seen that there have been attempts, but it has never been successfully completed in the Council of Ministers of BiH, so I suggest that, after the vote on the Law itself, that an initiative be adopted to assign the Council of Ministers to solve the issue, the legal issue of the Official Messenger BiH. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6417	Anyone else answer for a word? If he doesn't answer, we can approach the vote. Who's up for the bill? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of BiH. We have here Mrs. Majkić's initiative to adopt the conclusion – that the Council of Ministers... (?) [[no microphone turned on]] Before that, we find that the Law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal was adopted, that it was adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives and that we must re-shape the Commission for the Consensation of the Text of the Law. Again with the motions of the members... The Srbin Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6419	Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6420	Mr. Koprivica. The Hrvat club? _________(?) Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro Jović. _________(?) Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6424	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In short, therefore, the Commission considered the draft law in the second phase of the commission, in the presence of the proposing representatives, at the 35th session, held on 9.12 and concluded that no amendments had been tabled on the draft law. As the House of Representatives also adopted the law without amendments, after the debate was held, the commission unanimously accepted the proposal for a law on general product safety in the proposed text, and proposed to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6425	Is anyone answering for a word? If he doesn't answer, we're voting on the bill. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that we unanimously passed the Law in the same text as in the House of Representatives. 43 We move to the 10th point of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Market Control in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the proposed text. I give my word to the First Vice-President of the Commission, Dr Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6427	Thank you. The Commission therefore considered the draft law in the second phase of the commission in the presence of the proposing representatives at the 35th session, held on 9.12.2009. I find that no amendments have been tabled on the proposal. And after the debate was held, the Commission unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Market Oversight in BiH in the proposed text, and proposed to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6428	Okay. Now I give my word to the bill promoter, if he's present. It's not. Is anyone answering for a word? Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6429	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to, when it comes to this law which is now on the agenda and this previous one, given that I am the chairman of the Commission, and Mr Božo Ljubić chaired the session in my absence, just to say that these two laws, in fact, are in line with the communal law of our laws and with two very important directives of the EU Council. These are the Dangerous Imitations Directive and the General Product Safety Directive. So, the adoption of these two laws is one advance in the security of the BiH market, so removing all products that represent dangerous imitations on the BiH market, and I think these two laws are very important for the overall economic space of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6430	44 Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who's in? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that we unanimously passed this law in the same text as the House of Representatives. Point 11, Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality in BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text which also passed in the House of Representatives. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6432	Dear President. There were no amendments. We have adopted a proposal to amend and supplement this law. That's what we're proposing to Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6433	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the bill promoter, if he's present. It's not. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6434	I'd just like a brief, chairman. We discussed, when we talked about the principles of this law, that this law should, in fact, have a certain impact on the electoral system in BiH, because it is in line with Council of Europe recommendations that guarantee 40% of gender participation in authorities that decide on the political and public life of BiH. We have formed an Interresor Working Group that will work on amendments to the Election Law. There is only one woman in the task force, Mrs Dušanka Majkić. I think she will take care of it, because last week I was at an international conference in Turkmentan that spoke about women's representation in the organs of political and public life in countries, both Southeast 45 Europe and Central Asia countries, and I can only give you the impression that BiH is the last country, according to data, of women's representation in political and public life. If the BiH electoral system remains as it is, with open lists and preferences, in which preferences are mainly picked up by men, we will continue to have such poor representation of women who are now at BiH level, 12.8%. So we are well below 40% which guarantees recommendations from the Council of Europe and other democratic institutions, and these recommendations result in the country being able to take appropriate measures to avoid the imbalance. Therefore, this working group that is doing the Election Law, I ask you to consider this law that we are about to adopt today, I suppose, at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6435	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6436	Nothing, I just want to join in, in some way, Mrs. Čolo's thinking. So, it's good to have this law, and it's even better to destroy through that law a terrifyingly ugly provision of the electoral law that so-called. The preferences of voters allow for a negative selection in this country. And in that sense, I thank this law and welcome it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6437	Thank you very much. Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6438	Very short. We have recently had an assembly of Parliamentarians from Southeast Europe. I have had the honour of welcoming this more beautiful part of parliament's envoys, representatives of Southeast Europe, and I have admitted that this is the situation that the distinguished Master Čolo said, compared to the representation of the more gentle sex, I would not say, therefore, that the representation of the gentler sex is at all in the conduct of certain duties, or of the representatives in this country at all levels. The role of women in political and public life has been underestimated. I am not prone to such a situation and remain and I have said publicly – you will have in me a loud intercessor who will fight for your greater rights. I said, too, that the sexual structure of the entire electoral body in BiH should be examined and then determined whether men or women are more or less represented... in a position to choose such or such a person on a body, in a representative body throughout the country. I mean, I haven't counted, but from a series of sources, it would be concluded that we have a stronger female electoral body in BiH than a male. But it's a matter now of checking my findings. And if that's the case, then we could transfer the blame right to a constituency that doesn't care, even though the ladies are in the majority. 46 Just a minute, now I wanted to come to what I was about to do, we just retired, one number of MPs, we went to an Interresor Group session that should be passed, very quickly, to agree amendments to the Electoral Act, on the one hand, (and the other law) (?We have very urgent activities to change the Electoral Law. And I absolutely don't think that we can even or correct the sexual structure of the participants, our fine ladies, at all levels, from the representative body at the local administration to the state parliament if it doesn't touch the Electoral Law. First, we have open lists, we have preferential votes. We need to stop both of them to fix what we're talking about right now. If we have closed lists, and the Electoral Law predicts, therefore, that we must have positioned ladies in greater numbers than we have so far, and not among the first five two, then among (the following two ten one, etc.)(?). It will never guarantee your equality in all other bodies. So, you now have the option, through the gender groups, so, through other bodies, there will be an open invitation to submit all amendments and additions to the Election Law and to propose amendments, so, to abolish preferences, to close lists, to position women, etc., etc. Here is the opportunity for us, we will have to have adopted amendments and amendments to the Election Act by the end of February, because we are entering the election year next year and we have to end it very quickly. So, in the end, let me just say -- I support that we must repair the sexual structure in all bodies where men act, that there are equal representations and ladies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6439	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6440	Please, but just for a little while. The truth is that women make up more than 50% of the electoral body. However, various analyses suggest that the patriarchal heritage in BiH leads voters to mostly choose men. However, there is a sign that there is abuse in polling stations by the election boards, even the CEC confirms by giving preferences to certain candidates. So I think that all countries in the region have a system of closed lists, and the quota system that we have for women, and the system of open lists, according to all the experts dealing with electoral law, don't go together. We have an Argentine system embedded in our Election Law, which is one precedent in BiH, we have learned that we are a country of experiments, but if we can fix the situation, I think we have to fix it. The quota system and the open list system don't go together, and we have to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6441	Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Majkić, too, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6442	47 Also, just for a while. I think a lot of people will resent us if we make such a decision to close the lists, because it will be considered a democratic standard, a step backwards, and that is one of the options. It would be good for all political parties to have an attitude on the subject. Let's say, another option would be that, if 30% were thought to be a democratic standard, 30% of women in political public life, that this is some goal that needs to be achieved at the first moment, then it would be possible to do that on those lists that are diverse now... here, trying to get national minorities involved or some others, why couldn't we do that on those waiting lists, so exactly we could pick up 30% of women. Because I don't think we'll have the support of many institutions here in BiH, because they'll think that... regardless of which BiH is the only country in the environment that has this kind of voting. So open lists and a preferential way of being directly in collegiate, according to Čolo, but certainly there will be a lot of controversy on this subject, will you do this? So there's more ways. Most of the political parties in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly depend on how many women indeed will be after the next elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6443	Okay, we've opened up a debate... Dr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6444	I, unlike my predecessors, won't be discussing it for long. I believe this question should be resolved. I agree with anyone who advocates gender equality. I think that the system of open lists and preferences is actually not only discrimination against women, it is, in fact, democracy, because we have results that are not an expression, very often, to say the choice of voters but election committees and even municipal election committees that, after seven hours after the elections are closed, then prefer it, in the end, does irresponsible and political parties for those chosen, and in fact enables different groups to manipulate. Therefore, I do not see which institutions could prevent us from passing such a law if we parliamentarians and parliamentary parties agree on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6445	We're on our own.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6446	Okay, here, we went to another debate. And I join all those who say that the lists should be closed because it's not only for the insurance of the sex structure but also for the age and qualification and regional, etc. But here, let's get back to the agenda, that's a proposal, a vote on a bill on gender equality. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. 48 I find that we have unanimously adopted this law in the same text as the House of Representatives. Moving to point 12, Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) Again, the second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the proposed text. I give my word to the chairman, Dušanki Majkić, if you will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6448	I don't have anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6449	There's nothing. I give my word to the legislator. Since no one's here, is anyone answering their word? No, I don't. Can we vote? Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. So 13 for and 1 against. I find that we have passed the Law in the same text as the House of Representatives. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) Again, the debate is being held on amendments and votes on the bill's proposal. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission adopted the draft law with two amendments. The House of Representatives passed the Law also with two amendments. Again, I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Ivo Miri Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6451	Thank you very much. 49 I'll do it for a while. The report shows that we had two amendments and both referred to Articles 29 and 34 in which the items are deleted, and the amendments were submitted to the Honorable colleague Rančić so that the Law would be in the same text as was adopted in the House of Representatives. That's why I'm proposing to my colleagues in our House that we adopt the law as proposed by our Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6452	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. We're voting on the bill. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administration in the same text as the House of Representatives. Point 14, Ad. 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the ministries and long bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) The debate is about amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text and proposes to adopt its conclusions to the House. The House of Representatives passed the Law with one amendment. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Ivo Miri Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6454	We also have a situation here that we necessarily had to reach out to one such conclusion where, on the basis of Article 26, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional Commission sees an obvious error in Article 4. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration and makes a proposal to amend it. We also had a bill promoter and he agreed that we discovered that these were mistakes. And in order for them to be corrected, it says right here, I suggest you support this conclusion together with the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6455	I give my word to the legislator, if he is present. It's nobody. Who's answering for a word? Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6456	50 So we have a situation that the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Administration was passed in 2004, so five years ago, and now in the light of the Law, when Article 29a is reasoned, which states that by way of effect this Law ceases with the work of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs of BiH. The Law explains that in 2004, when the Law was passed among institutions that cease to exist under the 2004 law, the Office for Geodetic Affairs of BiH was wrongly listed and that, in fact, it was meant by the Office for Geodetic and Property Affairs of BiH. So, the law made a catastrophic mistake about the name of the institution itself that ceases to exist, and apparently this Geodesy Office has never, de facto or deura, existed and now five years after that, we need to pass a law that will, among other things, put aside the power or derogate the existence of the Board of Geodesic and Property Affairs of BiH. I'm really not in favour of correcting the mistakes five years after the Ministry's Law was passed, that no one has seen for five years that you've abolished one organ that didn't exist at all, and the other one that you wanted to abolish, I'm talking to the Minister of Justice, although he was not in that office at the time, and the other one who wanted to be abolished is not mentioned at all in the law, but now allegedly after five years we're dodging it. I don't know if the Board of Geodetic and Property Law is now, as far as I know, having problems with their funding, are they even budgetary users, that for five years there's an institution and now we're shutting it down, and we were supposed to do it in 2004? Believe me, I don't know what my club's position will be, but I'll be held back in voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6457	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6458	We were in a dilemma at the Committee and then we came to this conclusion with the legislator. It's perfectly logical that it's about amendments and additions to the law. So we're changing what the law says, and we can't, because, in Article 29 of the current current law, on the list of institutions, the Bureau of Geology and the Bureau of Geodetic Affairs is on the list. As that is just deleted, there is no need to insist on introducing a term that is certainly deleted. And therefore, dear colleagues, I call upon you to debate without substance in this part, to support the amendments and to supplement this law because certainly those two items are deleted from the current law, but to change the names of institutions that do not work now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6459	Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6460	Perhaps you could accept this part of my colleague Ivo Mire Jović in an explanation that the Office for Geodetic Affairs of BiH never existed and that those words of Article 29, item 1. The law is deleted because this institution has never been established and never existed. And if the Bureau of Geology, the subject, was registered in the court register, so it's not about the authority of the administration, and that thing would be OK. Therefore, it is not a question of Article 12, but of Article 13 which says – Article 29, a new Article 29a is added – to delete the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs, therefore, by way of effect of this law, ceases to work. It is not a question of the existence of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs but of amendments to the laws that seek to achieve that there is an institution that was indeed established and that existed. It's in the explanation, and the explanation is unsettling. Underneath the absence of the Department of Geodetic Affairs and say, for God's sake, it needs to be erased, and, let's say, it doesn't exist and it's not controversial, but there's a Department of Geodetic and Property Affairs, and it wants to be wiped out, and that's the catch. And you see in the explanation that it says fine – the BiH Assembly, therefore, the draft law states, in 1996 passed the Law on the Administration and Administrative Organisations of BiH, the "Official Journal of the Republic of BiH", number 17/96, which extended the work of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs with the competences of the federal authorities of the former SFRY. The property of the administration consists of business premises in the BiH presidency building. The immovable property of this administration consists of geodetic-catastrian documentation, instruments, computer equipment, etc. The BiH Council of Ministers, at its 4th session, held on 29.3.2001, so eight years ago, 8.5 years ago, supported the continuation of the work of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs as well as other institutions, and others, not only this one, which, according to Annex II, paragraphs 2 and 4 of the BiH Constitution, function in the transitional period on the basis of the continuity of legal regulations. Did something happen to Annex II, therefore, with points 2 and 4 of the provisions in the transitional period of the Anex II Constitution of BiH? Are they out of force? No, they're not. But you want to abolish the institution. All of the above points to the conclusion that the Board of Geodetic and Property Law is to be found in the provisions of Article 29 of this Act. So, in their explanation, they say – Management must be found in Article 29 that it exists, that it exists. So, it should have been said in Article 29, in the indent where it was written “Geodetic Affairs Institute”, the Geodetic Affairs Administration”, and a practical and legal question is being brought in, is it subdued (?). So, listen, please, all of the above points to the conclusion that the Board of Geodesy and Property Law is to be found in the provisions of Article 29 of this Law, because a commitment to resolving the status... at the level of BiH institutions has been made. And then, when you look at the bill, first of all, there is no institution in Article 29, but that is why they add a new Article 29.a) to which the Administration is deleted. The reasons and the law itself are absolutely contradictory. And the intention is to put an end to an institution that exists under the Dayton Agreement through an unmistakable explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6461	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6462	Of course, I can't support that kind of thing. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6463	Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6464	I only have a question – did the House of Representatives adopt this bill? _________(?) Yes, it is. In the proposed form?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6466	The House of Representatives passed the Law with one amendment. [[Common discussion]] Here, he says, it is said here that a new Article 29a is being added behind Article 29a, which reads: “Article 29.a) By entering into force of this law, the BiH Archives, in accordance with the Law on Archive Construction and the Archives of BiH, will take over the archive and documentation of the Board of Geodetic and Property Affairs, and the decision on the status of equipment, inventory, means of work, official premises and employees of the Board of Ministers of BiH, on a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, within 60 days of the entry into force of this law.”
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6468	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6469	Aren't you on the Commission? _________(?) 53 no one took over.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6470	Agreeing and over. _________(?) We have different texts, matching, so it's going to be an object... Well, it's not mandatory to take over.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6472	Well, it's common.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6473	Well, he doesn't have to. After the alignment... the laws. It's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6474	Anyway, it wasn't taken over, to make it clear. All right. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6475	Well, I'd very much like to, if the bill promoter here heard, because from what was given in the debate heard and understood, we have two conflicted views. The BiH Council of Ministers' position as a proposing that the institution, as an heir... be abolished during the signing of the Dayton Agreement, and it had to be transformed by this parliament's decision by now or had to be abolished. So she can't stay like that, inherited. And, on the other hand, the view that this institution should not be shut down. So I'd like to, before I decide which card I'm going to raise, to hear the opinion and the pronoun why that is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6476	Thank you very much. Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6477	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored envoys, envoys of the House of Peoples. 54 I also tried to explain at the House of Representatives, of course, you were not at the House of Representatives, you have the right to ask. First of all, I'd like to answer Mr. Rančić in a certain way. So it's not possible to break something by reason, it's broken down by the provision that's here, which is written in the text of the law as it's written. Of course, if the Office for Geodetic Affairs of BiH, as such, did not really exist, there was the Administration and exactly what you said, following Article 29, paragraph 1 of the basic text of the Law, it should simply be completed. I can accept what Mrs Alma was talking about, however, what is the solution? The solution is to put an end to it for six years. Unfortunately, we came at this time. Why didn't that happen before? There are certain reasons, probably, for that, and I think we really need to act in accordance with Article 29, paragraph 1 of the Basic Law. No, we don't have other options, we just don't have other options. For your information, and you can get further information, you know that it is neither in the budget nor in the last perhaps 4, 5 or more years. So we just have to take this off the agenda. Here, I'd like to ask you to finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6478	Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6479	So, I'd like a little bit with the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Minister Čolak... From his first sentence, when he said he wanted to answer me, it turned out that I said one contradiction, one incorrect thing. Of course, I have said and I repeat that the text of the Law and the argument given and followed by this law is in complete contradiction. That's what I said and I'm saying now. What they explained and the things I said and what I read and quoted to you are completely contrary to the provisions of the Law. You're saying you're going to solve something and you're going to do it in article 29, and in fact, it's not in article 29, you're going to delete it and you're going to delete it to a new member of the 29th. And there you're saying that they're going to get rid of it, and in fact, you're not solving the status, people, equipment, or property, but you're erasing them, that they don't exist, and only the Council of Ministers of BiH will see what they're going to do with both the people and the equipment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6480	Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, I'm closing the argument. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who's in? Nine's in. Who's against it? Who's restrained? 4 versus 1 abstention. We've got most of it. I find that the bill was passed because there are also entity majority. Since the Law has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, we must form a committee to bring the text of the law into line. Any suggestions? A Rančić. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6481	Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6482	Alma Čolo. The Hrvat Club, who do you propose to be on the committee?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6483	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6484	Ivo Miro Jović, right? Okay. The Srbin Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6485	It's a hive.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6486	It's a hive. Okay. We have, therefore, Alma Čolo, Ivo Miro Jović and Zoran Koprivica. We're voting on the composition of the commission. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I understand we've chosen a commission. Here's a suggestion to do it until this last session of this year so we can have the law passed. We have a conclusion now. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6487	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6488	We're going to make a special statement about the conclusion, aren't we? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6489	... Then you don't need to make a statement about it, that's the thing... [[no microphone turned on]] 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6490	Then let him go to the commission if it's necessary, that and that... [[Common discussion]] All right, then we'll move on to the next item of the agenda, Ad. 15. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the opinion of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of Nations – Proposer: PSBiH House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6493	So, lately obviously we've been dealing with these attorneys too much, they've obviously made a good lobby group in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We have every time a law or something touched, in a way, an assistant attorney. So, and this law, it's a proposing House of Representatives, changing, in fact, the Law of Salaries, in Article 11 of the Payments class, b.6. (?) the management post, after the word “helper of the minister”, adds the words “helper of the defender”, equalises the assistant minister and assistant attorney. We had a meeting of the Ministry of Finance's representatives and, as you can see in the Opinion on the Bill's Proposal, the Commission, with 1 vote in favour and 3 votes against the principles of the Law, because, according to the Ministry, Article 11. The Law on Payments in BiH Institutions, which regulates payment classes and coefficients for civil servants, has been found to be applicable to the Head of State Officer in the rank of Assistant Manager to the Payment Class b.5, i.e., coefficient 3.55, and to the Assistant Minister of Payment Class B.6, i.e. coefficient 4,20, i.e. to the Assistant Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation b.8, i.e. coefficient 5.51. This means that it is not precise, in our opinion, general rules, exceptions, regardless of what is involved in the management of civil servants and, therefore, the Finance and Budget Commission has not given its consent to the passing of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6494	Okay. Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House, declares itself on the Commission's opinion. If the House accepts the Commission's opinion, the proposed law is considered rejected. 57 Do we have more? Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6495	... A few sentences to tell about this law, as well as about the Law of Justice. [[microphone is not enabled]] So the first is that I absolutely don't think I'm fighting for some special status in the sense of writing down what their status is there or that I'm setting them a salary. I can't think of that. And I believe that both their status and their salary, as well as the salary of some other persons who are left out in the Payments Act, should be simply prescribed there in the law, we vote it out, and then there is no dilemma, we will not be placed in a position that some official in the Ministry of Finance and Treasury for some there, some analogy, by applying some law, he determines and prescribes a salary. So, I'm absolutely not interested in saying the pravobranilaštvo is in the ranks of the ministry or some administrative organisation, or some other special status, or this or what, no, I respect their work, etc., I know what their tasks are and the simplest thing is that both their salaries, or the status of the pravobranilaštvo, are written in law, their status is such, it's rank, their wages are such and please nice. There is no arbitrary nature of individuals in the application of the law. What I'm trying to say is that the emergence and the Law on the Defence, the amendment and the supplementation, as well as this Law on Salaries, I mean the product of a situation there in the Law Department and relations with the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Resolute Ministry, we found out at the end of the story, at the end of the Finance Commission, relating to this law, which is that these people, haman, are dissatisfied with that status and by determining the salary, have filed a lawsuit against the court to determine their right to do so. The resolution ministry and the BiH Council of Ministers, haman retaliated by making the Law on the Defence where these people, who have been sued, erased their status and turned them into state officials. Of course, we didn't know that, we found out in the end. Since a different text in the House of Representatives passed the law here and here, it went to agree, and then in law they stayed as assistant attorneys, and then the resolution ministry, through our work, made sure that, if it couldn't go through the Law on Defence, it brought down this Law on Salaries. So, I repeat, I don't want to determine at all the status of the D.A.'s office, neither the pay nor the lawyer, nor the deputy, nor their assistants, nor the officers, but I think it is necessary to avoid any misapplication of law or will, in a way that those persons, those persons we have in various institutions, are not in the law, to be included there. Let the proposal come from the finance ministry and the BiH Council of Ministers and know clearly and precisely whose rights they are and what rights they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6496	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. 58 IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6497	Thank you very much. Also, I don't want to put myself in the role of someone else's lawyer, and I want to point out to my colleagues that it is necessary to bring about these changes and additions to this Pay Act. One category of people who, after a court trial, should necessarily have, I think, eight years of internships, before the courts represent BiH. It's a responsible job and very professional. And if we have the proper internal organisation of the Attorney General, under general and special conditions, they are exactly the same as the assistants, i.e. the assistant ministers. Is it adequately determined that this amount should be? But in any case, with this kind of income and this coefficient, we may not have in the D.A.'s office in a very short time, because they're very likely to have huge opportunities with this kind of internship, and this kind of professional people can do as easily for double pay as tomorrow. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6498	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6499	With the long apology of colleagues who spoke, I would ask that you do not engage in social policy here and that you do not engage in selective law enforcement. One who passed the Law on the Payments of BiH users had in mind both the complexity of jobs and professional qualifications, the work experience of all categories of employees and the attempt to equalise the deputy at a small door, i.e. the assistant lawyer with the assistant minister is incorrect. And that's why we turned it down, that was the first reason. The first thing that's incorrect, we think, we thought, most of us out there, that it's incorrect. Secondly, we believe that individual solutions should not come to Parliament as they come. If there's a problem, let them look around and go with the whole request. And the third reason, mentioned by counterpart Rančić, at the end of the debate on this issue, we found out that a court case was being conducted, so our adoption of such a law would be prejudicing the court's decision, in fact, to put a point (?) those who have sued the state, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers or any other state association. Therefore, we have taken a very clear view that we do not accept the principles of this law, that we do not accept this approach. We can make that clear, and try to convince us, because if we go on the principle of blackmail that whoever has... this is a terrible country, great opportunities, we all have a chance to choose what we want to do and what we won't do, whoever has freedom, health and any job in this country can be overjoyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6500	Is anyone else answering for word? If he doesn't answer, then we approach the plea, the vote on the Commission's opinion. Who's to adopt the Commission's opinion? Who's against it? 59 abstention? I find that the Commission's opinion was adopted with one vote against and two abstentions, which is why the law fell. Moving to point 16, Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Missing Persons Act – Proposer: Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics (first reading) You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed Law. This is the first reading of the law... to article 100. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the bill is based. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the First Vice-President of the Commission, Zoran Koprivica, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6502	I think there is no need, Mr. Chairman, especially that on this issue, here, you have also received the proposal for a law and the position and opinion of the Commission. I think that there are certain issues that we have also considered and proposed on the Commission, and I would simply leave the House to declare it. I really don't have anything special to comment on in this case, but I'd like to leave it to the members of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6503	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6504	Here, we see a law that's withdrawn from the 8th month to finally come in the first reading. We know that BiH has the Missing Persons Act, which was adopted in 2004, and that the law provides for the establishment of a Missing Persons Support Fund. This was practically and partially resolved through the adoption of a Decision establishing the Fund for Support to Families Missing in BiH. Several issues such as seat, way of funding and management of the fund were to be addressed, and no agreement was reached there. What's it really about? Regardless of all the stories between the two entities and attempts to comply with this law have failed, the Joint Committee on Human Rights and Refugees, and not to list everything, has yet sent the law into parliamentary procedure, meaning, regardless of the lack of consent. 60 What Is the Key to Dissension? First, the law has very broadly set up the use of these rights. And I want now, here, we've almost had, in the near past, cases where this liberalisation in the use of certain social rights led the Federation of BiH to a blockade of almost the entire financial system, which ultimately affects BiH's own stability because of it. So, social rights issues, which are exclusively in the entity's jurisdiction and raising to BiH level, we believe... and the funds need to be provided by the entities, that's a problem we couldn't agree on. That's the first thing. The other thing is, when you're planning something, you need to know what size it's about. So we should have known that we have a central database of missing entities and Brcko District and that we can determine from it exactly what the number of users of this social rights is. And what is it? A letter has been sent to entities and Brcko District. And RS responded that it has a database, that 1,794 people enjoy a civilian personal disability, that 2,013 people enjoy family disability. So she made it clear what capacity she had. The Federation of BiH and the Brcko District have no missing persons records based on which they could plan funding for this purpose at all. The Federation of BiH said – we do not have a database on this, and as an assessment parameter, at least three times as many people to whom this right belongs under this law are taken. They even tried another way to get data on the number of social rights users, so a survey was conducted in the Federation of BiH. Neither provides valid information for this purpose. So, the Brcko District said – we have but untrustworthy. So there's nothing to tell you. Eh, since we have nothing to say, and in the RS it is well regulated, therefore, these users have a monthly fee and users of family and personal disability, we believe that, therefore, entity consent in the course of the law, so I believe that representatives of the RS, or the club of delegates in the Serb people, should not support the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6505	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6506	Well, here I would just remind myself that the Joint Committee on Human Rights has tried to overcome the problem that we have indisputable in the state, because a large number of members of the families of the missing have launched proceedings before the BiH Constitutional Court for the protection of their rights. So from the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court, it comes from the BiH Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation of BiH, the Government of the RS and the Government of the Brcko District to ensure without delay that the Fund for the Assistance of Missing Persons in BiH and the central records of missing persons in BiH, established in accordance with the Missing Persons' Law. Since there is no consensus at entity level on resolving this issue, the adoption of this law would help resolve these issues and fulfil the obligation arising from the BiH Constitutional Court rulings, which are final and binding. But obviously there is no political will and I assume the outcome of today's vote will be on the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6507	61 Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6508	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. A good part of what I intended to say, regarding the amendment and addition of this law, said Mrs Dušanka Majkić in her presentation. But here, I'll try to say my position beyond what we've heard from Mrs. Dušanka. In the proposed amendments to the Missing Persons Act, there are several undefined issues, which raises great dilemmas on the matter, in my personal opinion, and the application of this law. And that's exactly what Mrs. Dušanka was saying when it comes to our position on this. So when it comes to our support, precisely because of certain open questions that are not even a little bit simple, which can be subject to a very large manipulation, for these reasons, part of it, is our attitude, which you had the opportunity to hear. Here is one of the key, in my opinion, questions, the central database issue. This law provides, here, we have heard from several of these exhibitors, and we have read this law ourselves, the formation of this fund from which certain rights of the category of these people should now be financed. We don't have any basic input data in the formation of this fund based on which budget resources could be planned, if we're going to plan, if we could even agree on that formation. We've heard this information we've received, because we've been looking for data on the Commission, to make sure that the entity's competent ministries are heard, to see if we have that data. Here, I'll repeat some of it and what Mrs. Dušanka said, we got data from the RS, we got something, and when it comes to the Brcko District, there's a 169-person number there. A survey is being conducted in the Federation of BiH and even an evaluation is being conducted on the basis of RS data. I find that extremely irresponsible, irresponsible. Look, on the basis of this data right now, we're actually going to fund formation and we can get from the state one ministry a bill of this kind based on this data to go into this kind of solution. Finally, the proposed means of providing funds to the fund. It provides for the pooling of funds at entity level, where they could not agree, or for entities to accept the obligation, see, to pay off a more favourable right based on a solution that brings up the fund. Well, I guess it's clear to everyone that it's only possible if the entities agree. And secondly, the acceptance of this other solution raises one big doubt, in my opinion, here I am now speaking my personal position, the problem would be that solution that would issue this fund. That's what I personally think and that's another dilemma about me personally why I won't plead and support the motion to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6509	Thank you very much. Here, it's clear this won't work. Oh, my Božo, here you go. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6510	62, Mr. Chairman. Okay, I also suspect that this proposal will go the way it is already felt from these discussions, but I can't shut up at least three or four sentences to talk about it. It is obvious that resolving a very sensitive issue of missing persons at BiH level, as a whole, therefore, of all peoples, all citizens concerned, is an important issue and we must not ignore it. However, it is also obvious that this law is very sloppy and hastily prepared and has failed to meet the basic assumptions that it would receive proper support, even if there were no political resistance. So it's just enough for me to leave some issues open, like, let's say, the question, which isn't irrelevant, the issue of the fund's headquarters, the fundamental rights issues that the fund would provide, the issue of his authority to entity authorities, the question of the source of the funds, etc. But here, among other things, it acts as a confusing and insufficiently prepared and not clear statement from the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling, which requires the BiH Council of Ministers, the governments of the Federation of BiH and the RS, the government of the Brcko District, to ensure without delay the operational functioning of the Family Assistance Fund. I really can't understand what this is all about. What does it mean to be ordered to set up an operational operation of a fund that practically does not exist? So, I'm sorry that this law will be rejected today, which will not be accepted, but I advocate that all of us, and the promoters and we and other competent committees, take this issue a little more seriously, and that, with some kind of more correct design, prepare us a new proposal as soon as possible. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6511	Thank you very much. If no one's answering for a word anymore, and I see he's not answering, we're going to vote on the proposal for a law on missing persons, amendments and additions to the Missing Persons Act. Who's in? So 10's in. Who's against it? Four against. We're going to the second round, right? We're voting again. Who's in? Ten. Against? 4. The law didn't go through, it didn't get an entity majority. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) 63 Get a meeting of the bill's proposal as well as the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission did not support the principles of the proposed Law. The House of Representatives adopted the bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman, Ivo Miri Jović. Here you go, Mr. Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6513	Thank you very much. At our Committee, otherwise long ago, the position when we have a debate on a new law or amendments and additions to the law, unless there is a present proposer, is that we are not discussing the law. But as all of us in the Committee know the meaning of this law for BiH and its citizens, I must say, at this point, much more significant than any other law, although every law is important, the Constitutional Commission has been defined, however, to debate and to support the constitutional basis. However, when it comes to the principles of the law, then we had, practically, three votes against and one vote for it. The management of members of the Committee, when it comes to principles, is that the provisions of this law, on several occasions, I mean in several articles, do not have one of their consistency and are not recognized by the meanings that BiH should offer. The key thing is that, at any moment, this law is at the border between that democratic and what might be called undemocratic, because this law prevents... and how deep or how far it goes into what could violate both human rights and how much it could violate other human and citizen rights. But what is, in some ways, challenging attention is that certain articles, when it comes to terrorism, and when it comes to the recognition of a man that he is organized in a terrorist organization, if he admits it to the authorities, are held to blame. Or, if a ship or plane is taken away, as reportedly, it will be punishable by up to three years in prison. It'll put people in danger, so many people. But if he doesn't pay the tax 10 thousand marks, then it's necessary that it will be at least three years, he says... Last time we met here, when we discussed this same law that was offered before, I pointed to some inconsistencies. Or, when it comes to conviction, there is no condemnation of what the European Parliament has condemned, which is tolititarian systems. We, as the Committee, were thinking, given the importance of this law, that it would be good today to take a stand so that he could return to the ministry for a short time to do so, because he's coming down to what we had at the last session, or the last one, when we had this law, and what he's going to hear today from respected colleagues, could serve the ministry to make one, here, I'm going to say, more appropriate law, changes and additions to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6514	Thank you very much. I give my word to the law's promoter, and then I'll give it to the delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6515	Thank you, Mr. President. 64 Well, first of all, here, since I have heard from the President of the Constitutional Legal Commission certain reflections, I would like to say that, in fact, the greatest skill is to find one harmonious relationship between what every country is doing, which is how to warn, how to prevent, prevent, prevent crime, especially organised crime, not to talk about terrorism and other types of crime and, on the other hand, protect fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And that is one challenge that all countries are actually facing, especially through the amendment of their legal legislation within the framework of criminal legislation. Of course it's not simple, it's not easy, but these changes and these additions, the follow-up team of criminal law enforcement has really, over a long period of time, tried to appreciate all these facts that you're talking about. He really tried to put everything on the table and tried through one debate, in a democratic way, respecting, above all, the rules of the profession, to get to the best solutions. I will not, of course, argue on this occasion that these are the best solutions, how these are the most ideal solutions and how, perhaps within a month or a year, it will also not be subject to certain examinations, whether or not practice will deny us, but, besides, this implementation team has the task of correcting what is not good in practice and agreeing, first of all, with international conventions. This law is in the most part, I would dare say maybe 70%, implementing law. So, what BiH has already undertaken in a certain way, through ratification of international agreements, international conventions, I mean the UN conventions, and I mean the Council of Europe conventions, has accepted. It has indeed been tried through amendments that have been adopted, which were actually proposed by MPs at the House of Representatives. There were 31 of them, of which 24, it seems to me, from only one party, where 10 amendments have now been accepted, which is, in full, which, in part, to meet and these requirements, but again to maintain one level of this law, what is required by international conventions and what is practice, therefore, a practice so far through the monitoring of the application of our criminal legislation, has proved to be not the best solution (?). Are the penalties, the penalties prevented, the legal minimums and the legal maximums in the best way determined? This team that worked, believe it works there, works 17 people from whom we have representatives, first of all, judicial authorities, so those who work in the court and in the prosecution, both in entities, both in the Brcko District and at the level of the BiH state, as well as representatives of the legal chambers, have tried to come to this solution. I can only assure you that this happened with one consensus, at the last meeting only two members of this committee, this team, Mrs Uzunović and Mr Simović, respected Professor Simović, were all at the meeting, and this is a consensus, therefore, and those amendments that have been discussed have been accepted. I'd like to convince you, if that is, of course, in any way possible, to support this law in this first reading. To leave the possibility of acting through an amendment approach, because I think there's still enough space, if it's appreciated that some solutions can be improved, and I really think it would be a real shame that it doesn't go through in the first reading. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6516	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Šaraba. The first one answered the word, and then there's Mrs Alma, and then Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, during yesterday's debate on the Constitutional Commission, I raised my opposition to the principles of this law, and I said that the principles of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure are entirely controversial. So, what's most controversial about all this is that I'm going to start from the end of this law, and it's completely questionable that this law is governed by the entity laws and by the law of the Brcko District, because I don't think that this law can impose an obligation on entity legislation to amend its criminal law so that it is in conformity with this law, since criminal law is in the sole jurisdiction of the entity. So, it is my impression and my personal opinion is that frequent amendments to the BiH Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act intend to reduce the importance of entity legislation, and the result of this reduction is total centralisation, i.e., a perfect centralisation of criminal law in BiH. My opposition is to one chapter or to one particular section of this legislation, which concerns the extended confiscation of property benefits obtained by criminal acts. Article 110 of this Law is completely incomprehensible and points out on the basis of which the Court may consider that the reasons are justified and that the confiscation of property can be carried out without a judicial verdict. So that part is completely controversial and I think he can't find a place in this legal code, that he needs to be deleted and that in this way he doesn't need to give the courts the possibility that without a judicial verdict they can confiscate property. And, of course, at the beginning of this law, there are a series of vague provisions, a series of vague views, especially in the part that speaks of foreign servants in BiH and international officials, so the introduction of completely unclear concepts and the opening of the possibility of such vague concepts being found and so vague concepts remain in this legislative project. Of course, the definition of a legal person given in this law is not in line with the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government and the Law on Economic Society and the definition of a legal person in Criminal Law cannot and cannot be different from the definition of a legal person in these legal projects. So these are all my big remarks on this bill and I think that in the coming period, the Ministry has to deal with these and other remarks that will be so that this law can eventually be passed, but not as we have here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6518	66 Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6519	Well, here, I'd at the beginning of my discussion a little replication to Mr. Šarab. As the laws of the entity and Brcko District have been emerging lately, it means, with the laws of this parliament, that the laws of the entity and the Brcko District should not be brought into line with the laws of BiH. I think it's a wrong thesis, because look at Article 3(b) of the BiH Constitution, which states that entities and all their sub-divisions will fully abide by this Constitution and continue to follow the BiH institutions' decision. The law passed by BiH, the Criminal Law of BiH, entities are obliged to comply with this law. You are, therefore, advocating an unharmonised legal system that cannot function. If you have state-level one legal solution, and at entity level some other legal solutions that are mutually opposite, such a legal system cannot function and it is going towards its collapse. Therefore, I understand, you may have such tendencies, but in the Constitution BiH does not say so. Still, when you started talking, you were talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is a material law, this is a criminal law, you're a graduate lawyer, and such mistakes shouldn't happen to you. First of all, I'd like to elaborate on what the minister was saying. Who knows the criminal justice system of any country, who has done little of this, knows that the most difficult task is to balance the effective fight against crime, particularly organised crime and transnational crime and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by international documents on the protection of these human rights. However, it is the state that needs to assess that balance in which direction it should go, in order to protect itself effectively from crime. Because when you protect society from crime, you protect every citizen and protect at the same time his rights and his freedoms. So, if you're protected by the state that someone will eventually not commit a crime against you because it's a criminal offence prescribed by law and because the legislator has prescribed an adequate sentence, you are automatically, as a citizen of this country, protected, protected by your human rights and freedoms. The issue of the protection of human rights, possible perpetrators of crimes is a question of another nature, and it is also very sensitive in the context of criminal law. But I think that the BiH Criminal Law Monitoring Team, which is made up of prominent experts of criminal, material and procedural law from both entities and prominent judges and prosecutors from both entities, who have made eight amendments to BiH's criminal legislation, has assessed very well whether, in this case, when adopting such provisions, there is this balance between an effective fight against crime and, on the other hand, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Well, first of all, I would like to say that BiH is obliged to bring its criminal-processing legislation in line with international documents on the fight against terrorism, against transnational crime, against trafficking in human beings, against the use of nuclear weapons, so all these documents are incorporated into this Criminal Law and this is the obligation of BiH. If we want to join the international network against human trafficking, against organised crime, against terrorism, against transnational crime, we need to bring our legislation into line with international documents. Otherwise we will remain a black hole in Europe and, of course, no one will believe us, our citizens will not be able to leave the country, no one will allow our borders to open. And you seem to be in a position like this, and I don't know what you're up for. 67 The other thing, I don't think this opinion of the Constitutional Commission, with this one finding, stands at all. Because here it says – The Constitutional Commission is of the opinion that the provisions of the proposed law are quite general, and that in application, especially in courts, the law can create misunderstandings, which would result in human rights violations and the freedom of citizens. Believe me, I think it's an arbitrary opinion from the Commission. In that commission, the secretary is a doctor of legal science, I ask him to get a little more active when doing these opinions, in the work of his commission. And it further states here that this specifically refers to the provisions of criminal acts related to crimes against humanity and similar crimes. Now, what this might apply to, because Chapter XVII. Criminal law refers to criminal acts against... [[Shortly turned off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6520	Alma, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6521	...values protected by international law. There is no criminal offence of genocide, no crime against humanity, no war crimes against the civilian population, no crime involving violations of international humanitarian law, but it has been intervened in the crimes of human trafficking, in the crimes of terrorism, in crimes that are in line with international conventions that prescribe certain obligations for BiH, because we have ratified these conventions and we cannot say now, we do not want to include these conventions in our criminal legislation. He also says – The bill has no condemnation of totalitarian regimes. Well, that could be the subject of an amendment, that's no reason to reject the principles of the law. He also says -- more severe punishments for some of the crimes that are milder, and for the more severe... Well, believe me, the framework, minimum and maximum prison sentences are determined in terms of different circumstances, the degree of social danger of a crime, the value of a protected good, then the degree of crime. You're talking about hijacking a ship or a plane. Well, we haven't had that crime, I mean, in our practice for 50 years. Well, maybe that's why this legislator, actually they, we're legislators, but those who predicted the maximum of this prison sentence, laid down such a punishment. But the crime of tax evasion damages our state budget by millions of marks, and there is a huge increase in social danger. And there's an attack on the protected well very strong, and that's why people who do this job, so, believe me, I've been a prosecutor for 10 years, I shouldn't write what you wrote. And I cannot support this opinion by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6522	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba, it's a replica I understand, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6523	Well, I have to tell an esteemed colleague that her address in one part was quite incorrect, but, well, that's her right. I know that some things that come out like this, which are 68 true, often don't give a shit. I read Article 3rd and point 3rd, but, distinguished colleagues, read Article 3rd, point 1, where BiH's competences are determined. So, in this part of which you said, I know that entities and lower units will fully respect this Constitution and I am trying, and I know that the RS is also fully seeking to respect this Constitution and all that is set out in this point 1. because these are the original powers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6524	I have to replicate for a little while. But the same point states that entities will respect BiH institutions' decisions. This law is a decision by BiH institutions, entities must harmonize their legislation. I have problems on the commissions that representatives from the RS have repeatedly claimed that entity laws do not have to be in line with the BiH Constitution, which is wrong and which does not meet the principles of constitutionality and legality in any country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6525	All right, all right, thanks. We have Mrs. Majkić, so Mrs. Branko Zrno, Hilmo Neimarlija, then Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6526	So, I would remind all my colleagues, so it's about the Law on Amendments and Complementarys of Criminal Law, and now I've just counted, so far there have been nine amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. So, the constitutional basis for its adoption I guess we determined the moment the law was passed. But what's important is that it's one of the remaining conditions for visa liberalisation, that's what's important to say. And secondly, that, that we, the representatives of the RS, had discussed this topic and discussed this professional topic, had handed over to the Slovenian Bar Association which should have evaluated each of these proposals here. So, what kind of attitude is this law going to be, is it going to get the green light, are we going to succeed with the additional amendments, because it's obvious that many people think that this law needs to be amended, we're going to decide that in the second reading. So, we will now support the principles of the Law, do everything to make it change in part, in the members we consider to be to act, and finally, whether or not the Law is to be passed, we will see it in another reading. I'm really just wondering, and really, the minister didn't answer, because we've had a lot of objections, so the lawyer's chamber of RS has made a book of remarks, and now we've had some other people involved in this process, and here they haven't finally come to give a stand. And I'm always afraid that when people aren't able to defend their attitude, then they pull back, so that this space that can happen. So, here, we will support in the first reading, and a definitive attitude related to the Electoral(?) We'll give the law after the amendments have been adopted. So I do not accept this report from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6527	You don't accept, okay. Let's see next, Branko Zrno, then Hilmo Neimarlija, Božo Rajić. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After Mrs. Majkić, I think I should give up my discussion, too. Given what the Honorable Minister Čolak has told us, given what we have heard from the remarks of counterpart Šaraba on the issue of legislative hierarchy, i.e. the process of harmonising criminal provisions and criminal sanctions, the issues of the legal person, and to the expertise of Čolo, I think we have even had a good debate and it is not bad that we have done so, we will be able to cope with the following reading. But I support what Mrs. Majkić said, not all of it, but this part where she invited us all to... because we still have to take care of reading, this is the first reading and whether we wanted it or not, we have to keep an eye on the fact that this law is a condition at the same time, and we all know why. But we also have to keep in mind that we need this law, my people, not just for the sake of the EU, not just for this or this, for us, for this country, for this law. I also think we should make a statement about the first reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6529	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6530	I express my real understanding of the reasons presented by the distinguished minister of justice and by giving up the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6531	Thank you very much. Dr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6532	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I have just come forward for the debate at the moment when, I say, he was on the scale of this home's relationship to the law, i.e., on the basis of the Council of Ministers' proposal and on the basis of the Commission's position, so I wanted to say a few words in favour of it. So today, at this stage, we adopt this law, given that we also need it because of the essence, because of many things, because of new forms of crime, new modes, the modernisation of practices, EU accessions, etc., etc., along with, of course, mine, and so to speak, the objections relating to the disproportionateness of these criminal acts, i.e. sanctions in relation to individual acts. In the first place, neither do I, comparing Article 202 d) – the organisation of a terrorist group where it says, in one place, – will be punished by a three-year sentence of one who becomes a member of the group referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, etc. Well, then, right on page 70, article 210. - who does not report a tax, whose item exceeds 50,000 KM, will be punished by a sentence of 1 to 10 years. However, I believe that on these things, and the others that were here, we can intervene in the amendment form and we will support the Law at this stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6533	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6534	I'll just take a moment, Mr. Chairman. As is known, this law is also on the visa-free list, besides the one on the Corruption Prevention Agency that we just adopted. I have nothing new to say beyond what we've had the opportunity to hear and I can only suggest for the amendment phase, I think that the 15-day deadline will be short for the amendment phase. And let's think about it now that we're in charge of the College to extend the amendment phase until the session is held, so we can have more time, so we don't get back into this situation that we're in today, to talk about objections, and a short period of 15 days to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6535	Thank you very much. You see, we cannot adopt today in the first reading of the Law, but we can only refuse that you are against the Commission's opinion and return to the Commission's work and the next session possibly to have a positive opinion and then to adopt it in the first reading. And that means later the amendment phase. And what Mr. Koprivica was saying will probably be enough time. I therefore put my opinion on the Commission's vote. Who's in, let's see first? There's no one here. Who's against it? Who's restrained? With 2 abstentions, the Commission's opinion was rejected. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I was just asking the secretary if he could... _________(?) We have no opinion of the Committee on Principles. 71 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6538	After we turned down the report from the Commission, I think that we can manifest ourselves in the Rules of Procedure about the bill in the first reading. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6539	Only that the commission should stand out a little bit now, so, well, let's take a ten-minute break. Can we keep the shape anyway? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6540	Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6541	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6542	The Commission should make general remarks, therefore, in a short time it cannot be done, is my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6543	Okay, it's okay, it doesn't seem like it can, it can just, we can discuss it at a special session, you know. That's the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the last item of the agenda, the last one, Ad. 18. Report from the meeting of the political directors of the Adriatic Charter Member States, held on 20.9.2009, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH 72 You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission proposes to open a debate on the Report and to adopt the conclusions it has proposed. The House of Representatives adopted a report with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. I give my word to the chairman of the Joint Commission, Branko Zrn.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6545	Thank you, Chairman. I think you've said everything I should have said. We have here the Commission's conclusions, and we suggest that you accept our conclusions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6546	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6547	I would like to say that this is an example of how the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is abused by the Foreign Ministry, i.e. how this opinion, as a hot potato, was given on the text of the proposal for a meeting, from the meeting of the political directors of the Adriatic Charter Member States of 29.9. And it was seen that the Defense Commission was really sick and tired of it, so on two occasions she was trying to, in fact, arrange and take a stand on something that was really hard to defend. First of all, when it comes to a report like this, I would ask the first question - who is in charge of the country's foreign policy? As far as I know, the BiH presidency. What is the BiH presidency's position on these political positions that have been expressed here? That's the first thing. The second thing, which is all of the five proposals presented on this third page that speaks of the objective of improving co-operation within the Adriatic Charter (?). BiH, as the chairman of the Adriatic Charter, proposes the following, can I say that we could sign three (?) that the countries of the Adriatic Charter in ISAT(?) The mission sends joint military forces, Mediterranean teams, demining teams. That's, so... That the second point is to consider accepting members of the military and police forces of Afghanistan for training at certified PFP centres in the country, in the Adriatic Charter countries, BiH and Croatia. So we don't mind. And to initiate the exchange of civil servants between members of the Adriatic Charter, to exchange and improve full knowledge and experience in NATO's integration process. And there's the point. Points such as – to consider an initiative to extend the Adriatic Charter to Serbia and Slovenia can, point, but cannot – and to consider calling on Kosovo after the end of the 73 process of recognising Kosovo and its accession to the Partnership for Peace. Wait for things to happen, don't prejudge things. I mean, I'm talking to them. And last -- if Macedonia were to be given full support in the country's dispute-solving process with Greece, I would also put an end to it, and that a joint statement for the Adriatic Charter countries' ministerial meeting is needed in that sense. I would rather write that Greece is given full support in the dispute settlement process with Macedonia. So, representatives of the Serbian people cannot accept the two positions the MIP has proposed here, a team before we have the BiH presidency's position, as the BiH presidency has said. Well, in that sense, I really propose to make a decision on these three points, and these two, which we consider to be non-disciplineable and incorrect, or to seek the BiH presidency's position or not to vote on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6548	Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6549	What came here as the conclusion of the commission, the Committee received full support from all members. I would really not interpret this fourth point or the fifth point as interpreted by Mrs. Majkić, because we simply accepted the material that came from the meeting of the delegation of the Adriatic Charter. They, people, have discussed this. From these points, we have simply accepted the position of the Republic of Croatia which expresses, that is, which says the following – Serbia and Slovenia, yes, Kosovo not until a definitive resolution of the issue. And I absolutely don't see anything here that's controversial, even I think it's good. Because I wouldn't go into political evaluations either, because our body doesn't bring, or runs an international policy, you know who's leading it. According to this, I think this sentence is absolutely enough for us to accept simply what is offered here. Secondly, support is given to the Republic of Macedonia in the process of resolving its dispute with Greece. I mean, I don't see anything, I see that simple logic of geographical proximity or distance, because this is about members of the Charter. And the same force of sentences has, absolutely, the same that stands in it -- it is supported by the Republic of Macedonia and Greece to solve each other's problems, the same meaning absolutely has. We can rename this, of course, these are our conclusions, our commission and this home, so it can stand – it is supported by the Republic of Macedonia and Greece to resolve the dispute. Well, I mean, I don't know, I'm sorry, I don't know, but we're making, these are, after all, just forms that, basically, this last one, don't mean anything. But, well, the form also lives on certain forums, so sometimes the forums themselves are organized just for form, so why don't we, in some three essentials, also fabricate a fourth form that's just form. Thank you very much. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6550	Anyone else answer for a word? Well, I don't know, here, our goal is to adopt this whole thing here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6551	Here, let's get this thing out of the way about Kosovo and the motion to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6552	Here, Mrs. Majkić suggests that at point 4, behind the first sentence, the rest is deleted and all this remains as it is. I think we could do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6553	It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6554	Behind Slovenia.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6555	Behind Slovenia point, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6556	Although I still think it's more effective to stay. Because this is also in writing, not one region (?) Until she's definitely solved her question. But I agree, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6557	Well, here, okay. So let's adopt a consensus like this. Who's in, with this correction, Mrs. Majkić? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that we adopted it, adopted the report from point 18. Moving to point 19, Ad. 19. Giving consent to ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol 75 You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this Convention. I give my word to the First Vice-President of the Commission, Dr Božo Ljubić, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6559	The Commission therefore considered and proposed to the House of Peoples to give consent to ratify this Convention. However, I will say now here, I have, seeing the title of this Convention and this content, so to speak, asked me the questionable name of the law, so I have asked the Committee to find the English text of this Convention and I have received it. And, here, I'll give my opinion about it in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6560	Okay. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6561	You remember under what circumstances this document was adopted at the House of Representatives. And the House of Representatives has well formulated two conclusions that say – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit information at the next session of the House of Representatives on the reasons for the delay in ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Opposite Protocol. I – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit within 15 days to the House of Representatives information on the reasons for the delay in ratification of other conventions. As the Vice-President of this committee recalls, we also spoke on the Commission, and it was said – do not open a debate on this issue, because we do not have an answer to any of the other ministries why did this happen? Whose creation is that? So, one group of people who at least deserved it has been manipulated. We put out there dates when what was done and no answer was done and now we need to adopt, vote and not mention it, as if it had come to the most normal procedure, in six years this case has not happened to me in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So I really think that these conclusions about why these things happened, whose responsibility it is, and if we're finally going to start to answer for things we don't do, and we're going to have to do... So the BiH Parliamentary Assembly must take its stand on this. Here, the House of Representatives will and the House of People needs it. I propose that, while adopting this document, we accept both the conclusions of the House of Representatives... that at the next session we seek information from the Council of Ministers of BiH – how and under what circumstances did this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6562	Thank you. Mr. Filipović. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6563	Very short. Two things happened, not just one. The first was late for this international legal act in the BiH Parliament, it did not come in due time, and then, when it came in due time, we had emigrated non-war invalids here, which, therefore, came out of their misery and what, thinking that this is being obstructed by someone concisely, wanted to put some kind of pressure on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in order to ratify this legal act. So, I agree that it is being examined for what caused this to be so much for anyone and for nothing at all, a controversial international legal act has waited so long for it to reach the BiH Parliament. That's the first, and I agree absolutely that it should be examined, that no one holds unauthorized acts that are state, or belong to the state, somewhere in his private drawer and does not put them in the process when it is necessary, but when he wants to, or concludes he never will. And this thing is very important, this second one -- who is in violation of the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, has given consent to it, and concerns the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, in which it has defined how this building, part of the building, the hall, anyone who is not a state institution, with all due respect for these people who entered here and, in a certain way, signaled to all of us that it came to parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. The moment they came in, it was 3, it seems to me, the date, until then, this international legal act has not even arrived in this building. So they came to the wrong address to protest and animated the public about their problem. But again, they couldn't have known it, because we didn't know where it was and why it didn't come into parliamentary procedure. But from the right of anyone in the secretariat to allow entry into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in this way, to someone who has remained and abused that good intention of those who have so decided, if it is true that they must give consent to the use of this building two presidents, two equal homes, according to the Constitution of BiH. Neither did Mr. Tihić decide on it, because he had already taken over the presidency of this dom, nor did Mr. Živković, the chairman of that home, decide. They decided the other two completely unauthorized men and let that happen. So, I would like to examine that too and bring the consequences of those people who allowed it, because in this way we, too, have been manipulated here, in one home and another, and one false perception has been sent, the public thinks that Parliament, or both, is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly responsible for protesting these people here. There was false information that they were hungry, that they were thirsty. It's not true, and I checked it out, so here they used everything they could use in this humble kitchen and a humble buffet, humble beds in the halls, etc. But let's stop self-government once, so the relationship between the individuals who act like the bosses of this building and everything that's going on in this building. There is no one boss of this building down below the BiH Parliament and what the BiH Parliament transfers to both home authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6564	Thank you very much. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6565	77 I find myself listening to the debate of a respected member of the College, Mr Filipović. I appreciate one thing, so... I heard two, so to speak, pure Croatian expressions, manipulated and sent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6566	I haven't used any other word. It's not, first of all, Croatian, then you don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6567	No, no, I'm kidding. You haven't seen any quotes. You didn't see the quotes, so you said you were sent and manipulated. But here we go, now we're going to the debate. So here in my debate I'm going to touch two aspects of this issue. I will first say why I asked for the English version of this convention at the meeting of the competent committee immediately, since I was a little surprised and distracted by the title of the Convention in our language, which bears the title of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Namely, the English title of the convention reads.../Speaks in English/... Now I'm speaking here as a professional and I'm going to say a few definitions that you probably don't know, unfortunately, doesn't even know a lot of health workers. Well, here's the definition of these problems: damage, English... means abnormality or loss of physical, psychological or anatomical structures or functions. 2. - Incapacitation is synonym... for English. It says, a functional restriction or inability as a result of the damage, and the synonym for disability is the handicap, which means the restriction or inability to function in the community in the same way, or the same level as the other members. So if we were to apply this title to people, all of us wearing glasses here, we're incapable of driving, with these dioptrias, most of us, etc., but none of us would agree to call ourselves disabled. In fact, the objective of rehabilitation, in medicine, is that the damage does not go into disability without the disability, i.e. the disability. And that's why I don't think it's an adequate title for this law in our own language, in the Convention. And if that's the case, I'll quote you parallel to two parts. So he says, in the preamble of the law, point e) says in our language – acknowledging that disability is a developmental process, that disability arises as a result of the actions of persons with disabilities, etc., and in English he says.../speaks in English/..., therefore, it is about dysability rather than disability. And then we come to the first article that in our language reads – people with disabilities, including persons with long-term physical, mental, intellectual and... damages, not to read any more, in English says.../speak in English/... Even here was misapplyed. Here stands the verb..., therefore, persons with disabilities include, and not including as it says here, because then it would stand in English.... Therefore, I would like to say that, in my opinion, this law should bear the title of the Convention, in fact, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. However, this, in my opinion, is no reason not to adopt this convention, but I think it is put before the expert community, because I think the name itself is discriminatory for these people, because disability is, in fact, the inability to function in the community at the same level as other members of the community, and in fact, all of the measures we take in society is to allow people with disabilities or the inability to function in the community equally. So they don't become disabled. It's an expert aspect. 78 The second aspect is, to put it that way, political. Look, I agree to fully examine who and how and with what powers has he let people here, however, the second question is also being asked – why should these people not enter the People's Parliament? I mean, why shouldn't we join the National Parliament? Second, a matter of responsibility for the delay or alleged delay of this convention. I'm not up for us to be reading this on a partial basis, just with this convention. I will tell you, as Minister General at the Council of Ministers of BiH, that some laws, some reforms, etc., could stand in the secretariat drawer, or even the chairman, for months or even a few years. So, we have a lot to show about, as the BiH Parliament, and ask the BiH Council of Ministers for a whole set of problems, etc., which are not only related to one ministry, therefore, in one case. Therefore, I am for us to go to the adoption of what is coming to us, but it is our responsibility, to say, to seek the effective and effective work of the institutions for which we are responsible, and, among other things, the Council of Ministers of BiH is that. And the BiH Council of Ministers should discuss its institutions, its ministries, its administrations, etc., etc. And we will discuss the BiH Council of Ministers. And we have many other examples to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6568	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Mr Filipović, then Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6569	I would've come out of the box of distaste I heard from Dr. Ljubić, but I gave up. I've decided to notice three things compared to what I've heard. First, the handicap is a foreigner, not a Croatian word, so we could all bring it into the same plane as what I said. Listen to the stenogram and I'll recommend some grammar from Croatian, you have infinitative problems. Thirdly, the BiH Parliament is not a dormitory. And I'm here to respect the decisions, because here you know exactly who is making the decisions that this parliamentary building would be used for what is not a state institution. It's about people I don't humiliate by anything. I respect all their rights. But it was not, therefore, that they came with the perception of the guilt of this building and the people in this building that work, the BiH Parliament, for their problem of non-ratification, because only the BiH Parliament can ratify it. But in the end, it was turned into a dormitory so we could do it and start the ratification process, and then we found out everyone, and the public, and we're probably aware of that, that this document, which we're going to determine who's guilty of, didn't even come to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I had to react.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6570	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6571	I am amazed at the reaction of my fellow Filipović to one joke, so to speak, especially which he called tasteless, but let him listen, so to speak, the tone record will also see what he said, and I, of course, do not tend to speak in pure Croatian. There, in some ways, my justification, I was born in BiH, unlike my colleague Filipović, who was born in Croatia, so there is one advantage. But what I would change, so I did not use the word handicap as our word, not as an alien, but as an English word. She here, it's true, with me she's written with... (spells in English)... so, in English. Therefore, it is not here that it is applied as a foreigner nor as our word, but as an English word for something we call disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6572	Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6573	Mr. President, I confess before you, to the members of this house, and to the guests present that I find it difficult to talk about what we're talking about today. The convention as a convention, I didn't recognize anything special about it compared to many of the other conventions we voted on in the package. Look, all I'm gonna say is about what happened here in this building, and that's why it's hard for me to talk, because it's a category, as Mr Filipović said, which I really respect and respect, their problems and their troubles. But we've come to such a situation that all this is happening, and then we have to make our point. The entry of persons with disabilities into the BiH Parliament, as many as I think, is an abuse of the international day... and a protest in the BiH Parliament building is certainly a political manipulation and a background for me. It's ugly and sad, I repeat, that these categories of people are being abused, in this difficult time, for sending political messages and accusing others who are nothing to blame for their problems and for the troubles I respect and for which I do not dispute at all. I read an open letter to the Association of Persons with Disabilities of BiH, signed by their president, Mr. Zijad Arapčić. First, I think this is about the Federation of Persons with Disabilities of the Federation of BiH. What they use the name BiH and do not cover and do not cover the entire area of BiH is a special issue and I would not comment further on it. Many problems and open questions have been identified in the letter. I did not see the area in which BiH was located, i.e. all these problems were present and all these open issues. Are these issues and issues raised in RS, whether they are issues and problems that are open and present in the Federation of BiH or in the RS and the Federation of BiH. I didn't see it in that letter. It's probably part of the same problem, but I'm not sure all of these problems are solved or solved in the RS and the Federation of BiH. Also, it means something I could see in that letter... (?) When I read the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I don't know what the Association or what the Association expects of this Convention. Maybe I didn't recognize what they recognized, I admit I didn't really see it. compared to what we have today. Personally, I think the Association of Persons with Disabilities of the Federation of BiH has been abused for that international day, in order to send other messages through them. Does anyone think, in my own name, that I will believe that Mr. Arapčić is sincerely fighting for people with disabilities from the RS, when he mentioned in the letter and pointed out 41 and 1,700 marks of compensation for the alleged same degree and type of disability, because in the requirements under regular 80 number 9, meaning, in the same letter, in my opinion, the background of all of this is revealed. Who watched "That Day", on the same day at BHT1, in which the guest was Mr. Sefer Halilović, who presented the data, which was not known to me until that evening, and as a guest was Mr. Arapčić, who in his address, in the end, put himself again in a group of all those from the Federation of BiH, who were guilty of all their problems and troubles by the RS and the RS Prime Minister, Mr. Milorad Dodik. It seems to have been the ultimate goal of gathering and protesting in the BiH Parliament building, and Mr. Arapčić was only a spokesman for certain political structures from the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6574	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. It's just, here, yeah, come on, or I'll get back to you on the discussion about the approval of this room. Here you go, Mr. Jović. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6575	Thank you very much. It wasn't long ago when I asked my colleagues at one of the meetings what SIPA meant. So I can imagine if 95% of BiH's citizens even know that this agency... and because of what it's wearing. So much for language. We are overwhelmed by these aliens, we cannot guard our tradition and cultivate and develop, but we must do what we can. On the other hand, I would like to ask, today we are talking about the ratification of one document, the Convention on the Rights of Persons, here, whether to call them with disability, incapacitated, etc., from these documents, which stood between these two lists, if we have here someone who could explain to us when that document was created in the United Nations, what was the genealogy when Minister Safet Halilović signed, and when the BiH Presidency made the decision, when we passed the first adoption for accession... The Convention, so, one document.). But on the other hand, it discourages me to talk about this if I know the meaning of this convention because of the need for BiH and persons with disabilities to have the same rights they have in other countries that are signatories and who have ratified such a single convention. And it keeps me from being clear, or clearer, or more demanding. I think we should support the ratification of this convention. It gives rise to many rights, but even more to the obligation of the state against certain categories of people, but surely we must conclude (?) that it is an unserious approach in this way to prepare for parliament's decision-making, ratification of this document, from which, practically, the opening part, and we do not know when, where, where, who, what, has no answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6576	Thank you very much. Zoran Koprivica. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, and I support the ratification of this Convention, and I will give my vote for its adoption. But I just wanted to say two sentences about this whole debate that we had at this point. I think that all those who have pointed out that parliament is not the place where such gatherings are used to achieve certain objectives of individual groups. Here, we already have an announcement, I was the other day, when we marked the International Day of Human Rights, December 10, here in Parliament, where we had individual associations of citizens, NGOs, representatives of civil society, etc.; The Association of Missing BiH already has an announcement – they condition the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Missing Persons' Families since 2006, i.e., on preventing forced disappearances, that the Convention is urgently ratified, otherwise it will do the same as the disabled. So, one practice that happens here. We'll have a chance again, if we make such mistakes, which we've made this time, we'll let them do it again. So, in that sense, I think that this debate today is really in place, that all those who have pointed out that parliament cannot be used for such purposes and for such purposes, abuse certain international gatherings, international holidays, etc. In that sense, I propose that we enter a certain conclusion, that we assign the College, if there are no established rules of conduct in this regard, that these rules are urgently adopted and adopted, and that we behave accordingly, because we will indeed have problems, given all this general situation, on the economic situation in society, on the numerous demands of individual NGOs, individual associations of citizens, etc., the dissatisfaction that the parliament is used for those purposes for which it is not intended, neither by the Constitution, nor by law, nor by our acts. Therefore, I propose a concrete conclusion in this regard, to task the college of one and the other at home to establish in this regard rules of conduct, as well as how to allow, under what conditions, the use of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6578	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few words. Since the debate has passed, as far as the Convention itself is concerned, normally, we all support it, but when it comes to holding this rally, I want to say that I have received information about the request for disabled persons to hold an assembly here to mark this holiday. And I gave consent, as one of those possible signatories, I thought they too had the right, the disabled, to come to this Parliament and hold a conference. Normally, I didn't know, nor could I assume that they would refuse to leave the premises after the meeting. I agree with all those suggestions that it would be good for there to be some rules for us who give these approvals, and that under these rules we move, that we don't decide from case to case, so sometimes we can do some injustice, not give to someone, and give to another, etc. Perhaps this conclusion by Mr. Koprivice is good, that we charge the colleges to make one rule on how to use the premises for other institutions. So, here, I just want this to be known, because of the truth, how it happened. Whether Živković gave or not consent, I don't know. And then when I gave it, I wasn't informed about it. 82 When it comes to responsibility for the delay in ratification, we have, behold, Mr Ljubić said, many cases, and here today we have said that the Council of Ministers of BiH does not send us answers to our demands, they do not attend meetings of the House of Peoples, commissions. We know that many bill proposals are waiting, to answer questions are waiting, so, here, we heard today, a year at a time, I don't know how many months. Whether this case should be singled out, so we can watch him specifically. Anyway, I think we should have information about that. Then on the basis of the information, we'll eventually see if there's any reason for the liability of someone in that chain, in the procedure of doratification, we'll miss some of the actions that he was obliged to do in time. Here, let's go over there and vote on ratification. Who's in favor of ratification of the Convention? Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted. _________(?) We don't have enough in the order of the Serbian people. Just a moment, I apologize, we must repeat the vote, I have not noticed that there is a representative from the Serb people missing. Here, Mrs. Majkić is here. I vote, we vote on the Convention. Who's in? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I realize we've adopted this convention. We have suggestions for Mrs. Majkić's conclusions, which were adopted by the House of Representatives. Who's in favour of this proposal for a conclusion? Let's see, please, let me count. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven. There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6580	What? No support to conclude? I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-15-0.u6581	Please, again. We are voting on a proposal for conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives. Who's in? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. So we don't have most, do we? I am concluding the 39th session of the PSBiH House. The next session is on December 30th this year at 11.00 p.m. 83 Session completed at 1540 hours.
