ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29399	I ask MPs and guests to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 61st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who follow the work of our House and representatives of certain NGOs. I thank those who are here with us today. Representatives of the BiH institutions' audit office have been invited to discuss their materials. I welcome all present MPs and guests once again, and also media representatives. According to service information, there are 26 MPs present. The absence was justified by MPs Vinko Zorić, Bakir Izetbegović, Milica Marković and Slavko Matić. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the previous questions, I would like to inform you of the following. The Central Election Commission, on 23 September 2009, submitted a decision to the House on the termination of the term of office of the deceased Jovan Todorović and to the next qualified candidate of the political party SNSD Milorad Dodik, with the highest number of individual votes won in other multi-member election units for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from RS territory, which is Vesna Šain. This decision became legal in 17.9.2009. Vesna Šain signed a statement on acceptance of the mandate on 29.9.2009. Therefore, a new MP should make a solemn statement in order to take over parliamentary rights and obligations. I call on Vesna Šain to make a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29401	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29402	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29403	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29404	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29405	I respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29406	I respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29407	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29408	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29409	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29410	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29411	Congratulations. [[APLAuz]] The second thing I want to inform you about is that in 17.9.2009 we received a notice from the chairman of the Joint People's Party MPs' Club, Martin Raguž, on 12.7.2009. The mixed club was joined by MP Rifat Dolić from the party DNZ BiH, so the Club now consists of MPs: Martin Raguž, Vinko Zorić and Rifat Dolić. At the same time, given that we have information that the Constitutional Commission is sitting down and that they asked us to wait half an hour for the completion of their work so that the report on important laws comes or could come to the agenda of today's session, I am taking a break by fifteen to eleven. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29414	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I say what she's done today, from eight hours to now, the Constitutional Commission is working for the public and for all of us, I am obliged to explain why we are in this situation that we are in. We put these points of the agenda and amendments to the BiH Criminal Law and amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH on the agenda of the Constitutional Legal Commission two days ago, as it is, otherwise, common and then we planned to do so and reports would be done on time. However, we had a business objection, which was quite correct, businessly, that the deadline for the amendment had not expired, and with the aim of having it at the House of Representatives today, and that, however, we respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we unanimously decided, two days ago, to sit on these points of the agenda this morning, so, according to amendments to the Criminal Law of BiH, to the Law on the Court and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And we've done this job and that's, therefore, the previous explanation for why we're in this situation today. Because it is known, is it, that today is actually the last day on which a report will be prepared and done to the European Commission on BiH's progress in visa liberalisation and it is very important that the Constitutional Commission has done the job today. I expect the House of Representatives to do the same. Especially now the answer to your question. We have processed all three of these points of the agenda and we have processed all three laws, and amendments to the BiH Criminal Law and amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice and amendments to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, they are therefore adopted on the Constitutional Commission. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, 31 amendments to the Criminal Law were made. The Constitutional Commission has not accepted any amendments, the original text of the law that came from the BiH Council of Ministers has been adopted. The report on this law is about and you will get it as soon as possible. I call on the services to get it as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to get it signed, and then to distribute it to all of you. As regards the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, the Constitutional Commission adopted amendments to both laws, and there were amendments, amendments to the distinguished colleagues, Professor Azra Hadžiahmetović. The essence of these amendments is that both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Department of Organized Crime and the Department of War Crimes retains the existing capacity for the participation of foreign judges until 31.12.2012 and this is different from the proposal that came from the BiH Council of Ministers. And it will be an official text, the other amendments have not been adopted. Reports are being written and I call on the services to draw up these reports as soon as possible, to sign them, and then to distribute them to you. This is, therefore, the essence of the work and decision of the Constitutional Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29415	Thank you. From your presentation, I understand that the Constitutional Commission is proposing to the House that these laws be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29416	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29418	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The Constitutional Commission did not deal with this issue, because it is not the mandate of the Constitutional Commission and I could not without reacting to this finding by you that the Constitutional Commission is proposing it. I suggest it as a representative, and yesterday at the College session we also said, as I recall, and it's not my place to interpret what happened at the College session, you and your fellow deputies, and you can interpret it. But here, for the sake of the public, since I've already stood up, it was told yesterday on the commission that if the Constitutional Commission finishes its job, that the House will declare itself on the agenda of these laws. And you, if I'm wrong about yesterday's college session, go ahead and fix me. I hope not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29419	Thank you. I would simply like to inform all those present that we in the College were unable to agree and interpret Rule 118 of our Rules of Procedure, you can read everyone, 24 hours, that the amendments in the plenary phase need to come to the beginning of the session. This would be a material violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that is why we agreed, if something in the College cannot agree, that the House is wondering, and we will put Mr. Šefik Džaferović's proposal for these three points of the agenda and the House will vote on it. That's the essence of what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29420	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29421	Šefik Džaferović, supplemental. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29422	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm a bit of a pain in the ass this morning, but one small addition, so now. I propose that the House put all three of these laws on the agenda, especially since amending the BiH Criminal Law is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation and that is very important. And we know what the situation is and what the need is when it comes to the Law on the Court and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH. What I want to complement is that, if the House decides to put these laws on the agenda, no fellow Members, of those who have tabled amendments, as well as any colleagues and colleagues who have new aspects, it is not denied the right until the debate is concluded on each agenda point, or repeat the amendments they had on the Commission, or only to say that those who have been on the Commission are considered renewed and they have new aspects that they can do so by the end of the session. So we would, in that way, actually achieve a business essence. And business is the essence of allowing people to defend amendments, which have not passed on the Commission, before Parliament or if we have some new aspects that these aspects can be respected by the end of the debate on certain points of the agenda. And I suggest, if the House, therefore, decides to do so, to enable our colleagues to do so and in this way, the essence of the Rules of Procedure would be satisfied. Therefore, none of the rights of respected colleagues and colleagues would be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29423	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Ambassador, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29424	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, first of all, the position here is clear. So, we have a Member of 118 who allows or does not enable us, so we do not need to have a debate now, after all, at the Expansive College, we have agreed that the House will declare this. It's not a replica, I want us not to waste time on these stories. So, we said at the Extended College, the House will plead. I ask that the College, that is, the chairman, put forward a proposal to make these three laws, because we already have Mr. Džaferović's legitimate proposal, on the agenda. Put it to a vote and after that we will go further into debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29425	Thank you. However, we have opened a general debate on the agenda, this is just one of the proposals. When the debate on the agenda is over, I'll put it to the vote. This was just to clarify how things were going. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Novaković said the first part of what I thought. And in the second part of Mr. Džaferović's presentation, in order not to get the wrong picture, we have participated correctly in all these agreements in the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission, we did not want to be accused of obstruction in terms of work, but in a qualitative sense, to be realistic, we have not made any progress. To be clear, the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission was the revote of representatives from the RS in the commission, so all these laws that were passed. That's what I'm saying for a reason that we know what's ahead of us and what's the situation, that either by breaking the Rules of Procedure or not, it won't bring us special progress when it comes to decisions on the Constitutional Commission. But we did correctly, so we're working, and probably the Civil Initiative Centres will record that we were working early this morning and that we even had the will to work six hours as far as our relationship with work is concerned. I also said clearly at the Expansive College session, and this is what my colleagues from the Club have now warned me about, so that I will have a problem, given that I expected, although they were too much expectations, theoretically, that all our amendments would be adopted at the session of the Constitutional Commission and then I would not have this problem that they are now looking for 24 hours to invest amendments in the plenary phase. I warned the Expansive College that this could happen and that we must make it possible, regardless of how we participated in the work of the Constitutional Commission. So, according to business regulations, we have to make that fact possible and I'm just repeating once again that I said that and that we have a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29427	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make a short contribution to shortening this debate whether we are doing something today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. I would remind you that in last session, in the context of a debate on the implementation of BiH's tasks from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation, we have reached the following two conclusions. The first conclusion was that the BiH Council of Ministers is in charge that in the next 15 days, it means until today, it will be in a permanent session until the remaining requirements of the Roadmap are met. Another conclusion -- the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked with monitoring the work of the BiH Council of Ministers with its permanent session so that it can react within 24 hours to the request of the BiH Council of Ministers. So, I think that this conclusion, in some ways, has paved the way for an urgent debate of the laws relating to visa liberalisation. The only thing that has not been met is that one conclusion has also been made – that all the laws relating to this liberalisation in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly come under label, i.e. with a request for a shortened procedure. I think that this conclusion, therefore, has eliminated the need to discuss whether something is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29429	Thank you. I didn't understand from your discussion do you suggest that we schedule a session tomorrow on these agenda points or are you willing to put it as agenda points today?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29430	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29432	I think it's been said here 24 hours since the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal. So, it's been fulfilled, and so we can normally put this on the agenda today, to be clear, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29433	That's a fulfilled premise, but it wasn't filled in 118, okay. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Did you want a replica or a debate or together?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29434	If he can, I can unite.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29436	The replica is very short. I would only call on all my colleagues here in the BiH Parliament to, indeed, respectfully accept representatives of NGOs here in the BiH Parliament, especially those who follow the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament, because I believe that on the basis of facts and arguments they publish their votes and their results and certainly contribute to the democratisation of society in BiH. So, so attached to it. And given that we are at the agenda point where the agenda is determined, on the basis of Article 65, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I propose that we supplement today's agenda with a new point, which is – Discussing information on human rights violations of the BiH citizen Ilija Jurišić. In addition to the proposal to include the mentioned item in the agenda, I also submit the Justice Ministry's Information to the BiH Council as a basis for discussion on this agenda point. Often MPs, when including some points in the agenda, ask whether we have adequate material or not. Here, in this case, we have, therefore, the Justice Department's information that I'm going to deliver now complete for discussion on this agenda point. Namely, everyone in BiH, but also outside BiH, knows very well that the UN's highest court has condemned Serbia for failing to prevent genocide in Srebrenica. And that, therefore, is a court ruling. That is also said by the President of the International Court, and it is really unacceptable that one state that has such a single obligation and such a verdict, as well as in this way, judge the citizens and the citizens of BiH, and in particular, here I am talking about the case of Ilija Jurišić. What is devastating for the trial of Ilija Jurišić in Belgrade is a fact, and everyone now knows in Serbia and BiH, that 80% of the witnesses that the prosecution carried out testifying against Ilija Jurišić said in a Belgrade court that he knows no Ilija Jurišić at all. And those 20% had no evidence against Ilija Jurišić. So, we have a case that a BiH citizen without any evidence being convicted in the neighbouring state. It is particularly worrying that the verdict, and the main argument for the verdict, is the fact that Ilija Jurišić was convicted because he passed the order: on fire, a defensive order - responded to the fire. The question should be asked – what should Ilija Jurišić do and those who defended Tuzla in 1992? I think this is a difficult blow to any normalisation of the relationship between the BiH state and the Serbian state. That is, the fact is that the European Committee for Criminal Problems has also called on BiH representatives in Strasbourg, and for Serbia's representatives, as they said in the call, to try to find an appropriate solution for a friendly solution to the problem. But the meeting did not come because Serbian representatives did not want to come to the meeting at all. I think someone in the BiH state must be responsible for this situation. And we in the BiH Parliament today shouldn't stop sitting until we have some state measures to help this BiH citizen. I believe that this is both legal and morally unacceptable and unsustainable and that it is particularly shocking for all normal people in the country and in the region that, let's say, Biljana Plavšić, who has confessed to the terrible war crimes, needs to be released these days, and a man for whom there is no proof, here, gets this punishment as the prosecution has said in Belgrade. Therefore, given that we have complete material, I propose that we put this point on the agenda today and not interrupt the session of the BiH Parliament until we have concrete measures to help the BiH citizen. It is better for this Parliament to do so than close to two thousand, or close to 200,000 citizens of Tuzla, to block all institutions in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29437	Thank you. Please provide me with the draft agenda item in writing and you can write the hand in which you consider it necessary to put the point. Now we have replicas. In turn, honourable Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29438	Honored chairman, respected chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and media, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a way to, not to have a session until the end of this case, here's how we don't start it. Mr. Jurišić's question cannot turn BiH's parliament into a courtroom. It's a first-degree procedure and we'll see how the second-degree thing happens. I think this topic has been and has been proposed, I don't know the exact number, but I won't be wrong, one seven, eight times, and I've done it every time, and I've asked Mr Bećirović, an esteemed colleague who I don't disputed what he stands for, Mr Jurišić, but has anyone ever stood up in this House to ask when he tried the same court in Belgrade for citizens, I stress, BiH citizens, etc. The speaker group. There were seven in that group, and they were sentenced by drastic punishments, over twenty-two years old and we Serbian representatives, whose members, therefore, of my people, were not responding, because we never wanted to interfere in the work of the judicial institutions. Here's the way I say we don't start the session, not to last until it's settled. What are we going to solve, what are we going to solve? The court in Belgrade has just taken this case because Serbian representatives, the Serb people, are bitter at the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which neglects the loss and sacrifice of my people. I keep saying things that didn't get into the head and didn't remember, I'm not looking for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, I'm looking for a balance in the amount of justice. It is not possible that only the members of one and, of course, with us, fewer members of another people – Croatian, and that Bosniak representatives or, I don't know who else, there is nothing to blame. I don't mean Bošnjak as a people, it doesn't occur to me that I condemn one people, but at least individuals of that people, because it's about individual guilt. So, I'm against including this item of the agenda, because I don't want the BiH Parliament to become a courtroom and this courtroom that would be moved from Belgrade, and we don't have a prosecutor, or a judge who said it, or a lawyer. And it's really just amazing what a threat that's been made. What are the 200,000 people of Tuzla going to do with the blockade? So stop, gentlemen, you're right, block everything, but you will bring down the BiH state and bear responsibility. Don't blame us all, as soon as we appear in the BiH Parliament, the Srbin came to the session to make obstructions, we didn't come, we came to be constructive, to contribute that the session has a normal course, this way it won't have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29439	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal, like the College, to relax the situation around the agenda and we have a request from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to address the BiH Parliament, and it is an important topic – the liberalisation of the visa regime and the fulfilment of the conditions. And I think this discussion would relax maybe after that speech. So I ask you first to allow the chairman to say what he wanted and then to decide whether or not we will continue this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29440	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members and MPs, distinguished guests. What I can say is that BiH, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, has met with today's 100th session all the conditions required to do from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. And I think it's a good day for all of us in BiH. The last time I spoke here, I said that my imperative and imperative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the bodies formed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, was to meet all conditions by the end of September. I was against alimony over BiH's fate, rather than working and that the result would certainly not remain undetected. And what I can say is that the atmosphere changes accordingly, so we should have met 174 conditions for visa liberalisation. Since the last report addressed to the BiH Parliament, which was related to meeting the visa liberalisation obligations from the Roadmap, the Council of Ministers has done the following: we have set out the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of Corruption, prepared and adopted the Strategy for the fight against Organized Crime, the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy for 2009-2014, the Return Registration Strategy on the basis of the Readmission Agreement, the Strategy for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Tourism Activities and belonging to the 2009-2013 Action Plan. year, we did this at today's session, the State Action Plan against drug abuse in BiH, implemented standards for the exchange of information with the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictions. We regularly implement the Action Plan to fight human trafficking. We adopted the BiH migration profile, made a decision on the obligation to submit statistics on migration and international protection to the Ministry of Security. Established and released the information system for migration. They brought in the end of the work on the construction of the second phase of the Immigration Centre. The BiH Council of Ministers adopted a series of system measures to ensure that the institutions of all levels of government are ready to start issuing biometric passports, using an improved system of documents involving all authorities from so on. The chain of identity. In doing so, it should be stressed that the passport issue process has started in BiH since July of this year under biometric conditions. More than 41,000 passports have already been issued according to biometric standards. All competent authorities in the chain of the issue of biometric passports have adopted anti-corruption programmes and carried out training. We have concluded an agreement on the co-operation of all institutions that manage integration and border management. They made a decision on an institution responsible for managing border crossings, building and maintaining border crossings, set up a joint risk analysis centre for integrated border management. They adopted all sublaws and asylum regulations. The Ministry of Security adopted one, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs adopted three regulations governing the issue of travel documents for refugees, persons without citizenship and foreigners. Establish relations with Eurojust, establish relations with Europol, fully establish a functional Personal Data Protection Agency. Consented, it was at today's session, and it was our last obligation, agreed agreements on the establishment of an electronic data exchange system from police authorities and prosecutors' records, found that the data exchange server would be located in the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate in Sarajevo. The leaders of all police bodies in BiH will sign the agreement today, and last week, an agreement on server headquarters was reached at the Ministerial Conference, in Banja Luka. It is clear from the above that a huge job has been done and I call on you to, as representatives of the highest legislative body, give a tone to produce a new optimism in this country to see us differently in international institutions as well. It may not be possible sometimes to resolve all things, but through civilizational discussions, a message about BiH's successes or failures is also being sent. According to many, at the moment BiH has achieved just as good results in implementing the Roadmap as Serbia-Montenegro when they received a green light from the European Commission. I stress that these are not only my assessments or the Council of Ministers of BiH, but that is also said in the European Stability Initiative Report, and you have been able to watch their analysis these days. We are pleased when countries in the environment advance, but we are glad to see real progress made in BiH. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you today, through a debate in this House, to send a message to Brussels that we have all worked very hard together in this country. I must say that it was not easy to look for compromise solutions in the atmosphere that was in BiH, but I am convinced that this is the most important thing that we do in the interests of all BiH citizens, based on this optimism and white Schengen, in line with other countries in the region, I am convinced that the European Commission, therefore, in its new evaluation of success, will also notice that the citizens of BiH will be on white Schengen. And that this will be a new incentive, therefore, the purpose of what we are doing in this way is to create a new incentive for other reforms and therefore to provide one progress towards the ultimate goal, therefore, that is EU and NATO membership. I ask you, therefore, as the work of the BiH Council of Ministers is being monitored, the work of both the BiH Parliament and all other institutions is being monitored, that through the way of the debate and when we disagree, we send a message that we are ready together to look for solutions and that would therefore be the task of all of us. The head of the European Commission delegation yesterday, and the other day in Brussels, said that over 90% of the things we did from the Map of Ways. Today with these two things done by the BiH Council of Ministers, so we have fulfilled all our obligations. I ask that you too work on the obligations that are in the power of the BiH Parliament. And I think we did a good job. I know there's no applause when the enlargement process is, I'm not looking for it, but I'm asking us to promote our common success. And this is an opportunity to thank everyone who's given a ton to do this before the end of September, because even the greatest optimists were, therefore, skeptical of whether this job could be done. I've deliberately introduced you to everything we've done, because I feel like sometimes they're making fun of everything we've done in this country. Thank you very much. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29441	I thank the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I'd ask him to stay with us a little while longer if there was a debate about this. And I refer all MPs to Article 167, under d) where it is possible for a member of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to intervene at all times in the debate, and this is a debate on the agenda. At the same time, I think it was very useful to hear what's going on with the laws and the things we're discussing today. And we continue our debate. The esteemed second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29442	Bog forbid, it is not a replica of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, but it is issues. So, first of all, congratulations, of course, and I am glad to hear this good news, however, with the conclusion that the work has been done on the BiH Council of Ministers, it is necessary to face the fact that we have not done the job in total and that, here today, we are trying to contribute to this plan and in this Parliament. My question is, Mr. Chairman, the following – Why are the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and why is the proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency not given by an emergency procedure, although there is a Parliament's conclusion that everything regarding visa liberalisation goes according to the emergency procedure? That's one thing. And another thing, I'd like to ask you for official information whether these two laws were passed by consensus on the Council of Ministers, because we've also tied this up to determining an emergency procedure. So, if the laws of the Council of Ministers are adopted by consensus, these laws should go according to emergency procedure. These two things have in some way defined the situation here in Parliament regarding these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29443	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. I hope that the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, following this debate, will answer these questions that will be raised by us. And we continue our discussion and debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29444	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I immediately say that I support finding a point on the agenda – the stepen of meeting the requirements for visa liberalisation. I took this as a proposal for that agenda point, because we don't have that point on the agenda. So, here, I support it on the agenda, and then once again chairing tells us all about what he told us within the agenda point so that we can open up a debate on these issues. I think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure at this point, but here, I'm not making too much of a difference, if, then, this is going to be on the agenda, I'm going to get involved in a discussion about meeting the requirements for the visa-free regime. But my replica did not refer, meaning, to the presentation of the chairman, but to the proposal for a new agenda. I have to say, first of all, I'm not gonna support that agenda point for a lot of reasons. Well, here, let me say a little demagogue, let's not spoil the climate he just said to the chairman. This isn't an honest story. That's another reason why I can't support this. Namely, here, I will give a few examples where it would be good if Mr Bećirović had suggested a agenda point. For example, Grujić Branko, convicted in Serbia of war crimes against Bosniaks in the municipality of Zvornik. There were no proposals to lead the debate because a BiH citizen was convicted in Serbia. Medić Slobodan, therefore, began the trial in Serbia, ended in RS. Kušlić(?(?) Đurađ, sentenced in Germany in 2001 to life in prison for genocide against Bosniaks Kotor Varoshi. Jorgić Nikola, sentenced in 2000 to life imprisonment in Germany. Duško Cvjetković, processed in '94. years in Austria, later released. We know that case. Maksim Sokolović, convicted in 2001 in Germany for complicity in the municipality of Calesia. Novislav Đajić, '97. years sentenced in Germany to five years for complicity in Foca's murder. I haven't heard from Mr Bećirović that he asked us to conduct a debate on these cases here in Parliament and to strongly oppose what citizens are...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29445	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29446	... BiH convicted in other countries and asking us to convict them here if they are guilty.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29447	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29448	Next, if it isn't, I'm sorry, I'm going to finish, very briefly, here I am, not to be the only one talking about Srbin. Mr. Fikret Abdić, sentenced to 15 years in the Republic of Croatia, holds the verdict in Pula, a BiH citizen. I didn't hear Mr. Bećirović say he asked us to discuss it. Mirsad Repak, sentenced in Norway to 5 years in prison for war crimes in the Dretel camp, the municipality of Capljina. We didn't have a discussion about him either. I think that if we all want to be the same in this country, then, Mr. Bećirović, I expect you to have time for all these cases that I've brought out here to prepare, and give time to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond to Mr. Kušlić's memos(?) Đurđa, and they didn't find it appropriate to read them...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29449	Time, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29450	...so we can have a discussion about everyone. I'm ready for that debate when you're ready to conduct the debate and these cases I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29451	Thank you, we'll remember this overrun. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29452	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here, honestly, I'm not going to say that I've been caught up with this information, but all the congratulations chairing everything he's told us, really, but it seems to me that before me Mr. Belkić congratulated and it's good to hear in this House, and congratulations on his patience by doing this job in such conditions as we are, that, however, here we have heard this. And this is one serious message and a good message that, however, things are going better and that there are no different grades that have been heard in the last few days. And I'm glad, indeed, that in this atmosphere we've heard this. My replica, Mr. Bećirović, mentioned, I mean, when it comes to the Centre of Civil Initiatives, I am, indeed, the most correct one – we are the subject of their debate and we had no problems in that communication. I don't think you can deny us our communication with them and I don't think they have any problem with that. I said it on purpose. I think they have the biggest problem when you defend them, because your property is their biggest problem, and there's the problem because only you're defending them publicly, in a way, representing them, and they don't need a lawyer. People do their job that no one can, I mean, challenge, it's their right and I think we're communicating correctly. This third, I think that the solution to all your stories in this House could be contained in one sentence and we could be solved by torment – to abolish Serbia, to abolish the state of Serbia. Then we'd be rid of all these various initiatives of yours. When you add them all together, they are in one sentence - to abolish Serbia, because what you have said in this House in these three years, it all comes down to it. I think it's incorrect, politically harmful. Instead of looking at what Serbia is doing, in a positive sense, and the evaluations of those who evaluate both us and them are completely contrary to what you said here. And, the treatment of the judiciary and everything else, I think it's completely unserious to hear this kind of news in Parliament. It is your message that if a BiH citizen is punished for a co-infraction, that he complains here to this parliament and that he is punished for being a member of this or that nation and the like. I think it is to this extent irresponsible and contrary to what we are told – visa liberalisation, European integration and everything else. This brings us back to the Middle Ages, and these messages to our neighbors, I mean, here we are, just before Mr. Novaković elaborated our undisciplinedness. When I say ours, when we speak for BiH when these questions are. If you were a judge, we once resented you for being in Parliament, probably what your message would be – to free Ilija Jurišić, Biljana Plavšić, at the stake. As soon as he gets here from the airport, I suggest that we fire here in downtown Sarajevo and finish this story, if that's a message. So it's not enough that someone's been convicted and that someone has endured the punishment that the international court has imposed, and it can't be placed a/a, to be said, but it's not enough either. I won't use hard words, but it only speaks of one relationship to one nation, to one country. I don't think we need that, that it's incorrect, that these messages are very bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29453	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, chairman of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, means of information, international communities, dear guests. We're around this agenda every time, it looks like we're making some kind of, like, quotes, a dance, and we're wasting our time. I've pointed that out a few times, but it's not worth it. That's why I took this replica and it seems to me, at least that's how I concluded, that the SDP proposes certain points of the agenda every time to get on time or on something else, and that they pray to Bog, it seems, that they don't fit into the agenda, because they don't know, probably, and they themselves, what kind of outcome would... Furthermore, Mr Bećirović said someone must take responsibility for Ilija Jurišić's case. He must, of course, be the one to blame. We are not going to take over those of us who have nothing to do with the case of Ilija Jurišić and let responsibility be taken over by whoever is responsible for the case and those acts that took place there, and if there are judicial crimes, it will be proved to the judicial and other authorities in accordance with the judiciary. He says – to sit until the case of Ilija Jurišić is resolved. Since I am deeply convinced that we cannot solve the case of Ilija Jurišić by sitting, I propose, under quotes, that again I speak, under quotes – that we may, when we are having lunch and being in better strength, go and attack Serbia, free Ilija Jurišić and bring him to BiH and solve the case of Ilija Jurišić, because it is probably, according to the Rules of Procedure, the task of this parliament, and probably one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. So I'll only support it when I have lunch. It says – Serbia has no right to trial, etc., because of some decisions, not to repeat, not to waste time, points out, here, I propose today, because we are probably responsible for making a decision on behalf of Serbia to judge certain cases that Serbia should... So, this Parliament is going to do it and we're probably going to be able to defend it in international law. Of course, here are some of my suggestions, under quotes, I repeat it again, and unserious as the unserious proposal of the agenda so far. And I think this is just a waste of time and a distraction from what we should be dealing with, and that's the problem that, here, was just before the agenda in our discussion – an attempt to liberalise the visa regime and our legislation to bring it into line, etc. And, behold, Mr Kalabić said that Denis, a respected fellow MP, would have been pleased that he could have said it in one word, that there is no Serbia, that Serbia should be deleted, and I only suggest Kalabić – don't exactly go to those details, at least leave the school name at the Palace "Serbia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29455	Since we've been held back, and we'll probably still be here to discuss the agenda, I just want you to know that from 1:00 to 2:00 a.m. we'll take a break because there's a visitor centre opening up in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, so you're aware that we're going to be taking a break from 1:00 to 2:00. Next to the replica, Ambassador Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29456	Mr. Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, colleagues and fellow Members. I thought, Mr. Chairman, that I should take three minutes and steal at least one more minute by reacting to the inappropriate proposal of the agenda of Denis Bećirović. However, understanding fully what the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers has suggested, I will give up because I think he referred us to serious issues that this parliament should deal with, but I cannot say just two sentences. The proposal for this agenda is, to say the least, inappropriate. It is precisely because it introduces a parliament in the midst of a court process, that it pleads and commits itself and is constantly full of mouths, calling for an independent judiciary. And, on the other hand, which is why I volunteered for the replica, not because of it, but because of the fact that a young MP who, according to his name, is supposed to be educated, belongs to a young politician's furniture, is calling here in parliament for civil unrest in this country. Thank you for your patience, I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29457	Thank you. Replica, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29458	Mr. Chairman. It is not some wisdom to make these replicas on such a proposal of the agenda, but I am indeed surprised... (we have public politicians in BiH). I'm, like, shocked by what I've been listening to these days. I can understand that there is a certain attitude towards a process, that it is said to be unfair and so on, but, let's say, I haven't heard from any media here in Sarajevo that in Tuzla, the Tuzla column, there has been a shameful act of crime, that there are people who have died and that's why this crime needs to be individualized. The only possible way of reconciliation in BiH is to individualise crime and a powerful satisfaction that every other crime is individualised and that it is processed in the strictest possible way, so that it never happens to us. I, for example, cannot understand that Reverend Denis Bećirović comes out with his claim that the witnesses did not know the defendant. Well, I guess nobody's naive to the judiciary that there's a certain degree of responsibility. I am convinced that almost no one knew General Milošević or Pavao Strugar in Dubrovnik. Does anyone, as a witness, need to know someone to testify in some process? Sadly, we enter a film (?) In which story – when you commit a crime, this is possible what you are talking about, only if you perceive Srbin as cattle that should be killed in the worst way possible and that anyone who kills a Srbin in that period is not absolutely guilty, and the death of every Bošnjak or anyone else is a terrible crime. For me, no Srbin is the hero who killed any man innocent in BiH, he is a criminal to me, and he should be tried in the worst possible way. If you think BiH's defence is to kill at least 51 people because they're called Srbin and because they're members of the JNA, which is withdrawn by an agreement between BiH and JNA, that's heroism and give a day to it, then that's another story. Yesterday I saw some people in Belgrade, the day before yesterday, who perform some political functions, who even have human interests, I can't figure out why such a need for courtship and denial of something. There are trials, it is necessary to bring it to an end properly, but, Mr. Bećirović, you will never convince me that you want peace and reconciliation in BiH while you react, until it is established, there are other people who are guilty in that chain of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29459	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29460	Well, a lot of people who were in the Freedom, Multinational Tuzla know that. So it's unnecessary to politicize that story. To finish, not to be mistaken, I am responsible to anyone who is a crime, in any form, according to anyone who worked. Here, first of all, I think of the people of the Serbian people and if in any way they called for it, but you will have to say that someone has committed a crime against these innocent people. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29461	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is a business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29462	I'm sorry, maybe we didn't get along well. It's kind of a replica. So, after a series of replicas by members of the Serb people, here, now I see a moving series of replicas by the Bosniak people. That's something he's saying. So, I want to do the following, to replicate to all of us here who have discussed it. It's a business opportunity, a man suggested a agenda point, and we all have the possibility to determine that point of the agenda and thus express our position and opinion by voting, etc. And, of course, if the agenda is adopted, then we'll have this kind of debate. We have now practically opened one process, that is, one kind of debate in which we can hear everything and everything, and it would be good for us all to listen to what we said here in this debate. And it seems to me that we all understand this as some kind of contest in patriotism and proof, etc. I really ask you, therefore, that we could discuss this issue in an endless manner, I really ask that what you intend to say be left behind, possibly, for discussion, if we adopt, and to plead. The man has suggested and has the right to suggest. We must also learn to hear suggestions that we do not like and make known about them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29463	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29464	I thank you, Chairman. So, this on the trail of what Beriz Belkić was saying, so here we have a proposal for a agenda point and as a basis for discussion is the Information of the Ministry of Justice about this proposed agenda point. So, in principle, I am really in favour of us discussing all possible cases where our citizens are tried in neighbouring countries and abroad, therefore, to be that and here our position to prevent all these cases, all these discussions, trials, water in our country, from being manipulated in this way. I'm saying that perhaps in the next House session we are discussing these various possible manipulations that are being conducted towards our citizens in neighbouring countries. Here, I'm going to suggest for the next session that we discuss, from now on, the case of our colleague, the vice-president of the House, that his case suddenly arises, that some investigations be conducted against Niko Lozančić. I will suggest that we, as Dom, have one view of the case being conducted in Croatia. So our people are subject to various manipulations, various humiliations, research, etc., so I think that we should, look, I don't have any written leads, that in the next session we have some kind of attitude in this case and our colleague, Vice-President of the House, Niko Lozančić, and that we have a proper attitude about it. I support this, therefore, as Novaković said, we need to discuss and I think in principle that we take a position that all our citizens against whom these criminal proceedings are being conducted, that they are being tried in the state, there is a judiciary here, and not that they are being tried in neighbouring countries. So, don't come here now in a position for someone to speak to to defend Serbia, attack Serbia, etc., Serbia has shown its position in this trial, it says since '92. A year. Therefore, things are quite clear here, and so what Bećirović suggested was well established. We need to discuss this at today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29465	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29466	Since I am one of those MPs who are seriously preparing for each item of the agenda, and not to give my grades casually, in the absence of arguments, that's how I'm going to use this replica to say a few more arguments. Namely, the official authorities of the Republic of Serbia, following the International Court's ruling, are the president of Serbia, who gave a speech on 26 February 2007. I have here a complete speech from Mr. Tadić. I remind you that in that speech, Tadić said – For all of us in Serbia, a very difficult part of the verdict found that Serbia did not take over everything in its power to prevent genocide over the Bosniak population in Srebrenica, a quote. Furthermore, Tadić says co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague should be immediately completed and all those responsible for war crimes should be convicted. Tadić says a crime committed in the Srebrenica area should be condemned and a declaration should be brought to the Republika Srpska Assembly on the occasion. Tadić also said in that speech, on behalf of all Serbian authorities, that trust should be built between the citizens of BiH and Serbia. I now have an argument to ask, and we can freely conclude, all of what Tadić has stated on behalf of the Serbian authorities, under number one. Serbia did not prevent genocide in Srebrenica, 2nd. Serbia has not yet caught Ratko Mladić, who for 10 years, as we see on TV, celebrates and is held in the centre of Serbia, in the capital Belgrade, 3. Serbia announces adoption of the declaration, Serbia still has not adopted any genocide declaration in Srebrenica, 4. Serbia will not contribute to building trust between BiH and Serbia because Serbia has rejected an invitation to Strasbourg. So, all of this Serbia, on the one hand, will not do, and on the other hand wants the dragon punishment of Ilija Jurišić. But she does not punish Ilija Jurišić, she punishes all of BiH, which has defended itself, equal peoples and citizens. Now, in the shortest, these strong replicas. Mr. Jovičić, it is true that seven to eight times I have raised this question in Parliament, at least, and you are right. Had it not been for Ilija Jurišić and all those Ilija, Tuzla would have experienced genocide like the Srebrenica genocide. Mr. Novaković, there are no demagogue reasons here, there are human reasons and I am ready to defend every innocent man no matter what nation he belongs to. Mr Kalabić, I did not suggest that Serbia should be abolished, on the contrary, I say it here publicly, and there are many good and noble people in Serbia, and BiH has never expressed its intention to abolish Serbia, but, unfortunately, Serbia has often indicated its intention and implemented that intention to abolish this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29467	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29468	Three minutes, and four and a half minutes on average were spoken by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29469	It's not like that. I remember it well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29470	Mr. Okolić is talking about how we can't solve the case of Ilija Jurišić. And I ask Mr. Okolić of the SDS – what can we do? And I especially call on him, because he represents Karadžićev and Mladic's SDS, to stop giving any lessons in this parliament. Mr Dokić is not here, but his strongest arguments in this House are usually whether he is a junior MP, older or middle-aged. I suggest that he propose amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law so that no one in this House can be below 60 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29471	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29472	And, Mr. Lazar, I suggest that when you talk about what you talked about in Tuzla, you consult thousands of Srbin and nada for the Mladina, and Nikola Slavuljica and Budimir Nikolić and Dušan Perić and all those Srbin who have defended and who live in Tuzla today, you best be aware of what happened in Tuzla. Tuzla has always defended the multinational character and equality of all citizens, and it is incorrect for you to drive someone here to talk about Srbin. I represent here a club in which Srbin work, and Hrvat and Bošnjak and we will...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29473	Mr. Bećirović, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29474	...to fight to the end for the equality of every man, and we will never let you push things like that. Thank you, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29475	We have further replicas. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29476	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. In all these discussions, you misquote that Ilija Jurišić is a Muslim. Ilija Jurišić is a Hrvat, BiH citizen, citizen of Tuzla. So, don't mess with the concepts. The indictment, which also treats Ilija Jurišić, also treats selo Bešlagić, as Muslims and other Hrvat. And not to discuss it. But what I was asking here, and... Mr. Novaković, remember that I said, it's not about Ilija Jurišić. It's the citizen and the one from Zvornik you listed. So, I think the fact that this parliament has to debate, not only about Ilija Jurišić, but what has this parliament done to protect the rights of its citizens? Someone also has dual citizenship, which I am not interested in, because Serbia has the right to process a man who has Serbian citizenship, but Serbia, neither Croatia nor Montenegro, nor Germany can process people with only BiH citizenship. So, I couldn't agree more, Mr. Novaković, with you and you're right. Let the Council of Ministers take all these cases and ask what the BiH institutions have done to protect BiH citizens. And I don't suggest anything else, that's where Ilija Jurišić will be found. But don't you remember I asked the BiH Court of Justice to prosecute the Tuzlan column? Three years running the process, three years being questioned by me and everyone else. Did I ask here a hundred times to file a report as far as we came, because I want to look you in the eye and that you definitely say, "recognise or not admit that judiciary." Unfortunately, I am the victim of this country, I am the victim of this inertness and many Tuzlac, such as Ilija Jurišić, are the victim of these organs unable to protect BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29477	Thank you. Dear MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29478	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I really didn't mean to replicate. I thought I'd support this proposal by Mr. Denis Bećirović, I think the argument is enough for one such decision. But after the discussion of the esteemed colleague Lazar Prodanović, I decided to answer the word and say only a few sentences of a colleague whom I, several times already repeat, greatly respect and appreciate. Mr. Prodanović, it does not occur to anyone that the victims of the crime have a relationship that you, in your discussion, have in some way indicated when you said, if I paraphrasise you well, that any crime committed to the Bošnjak must be sanctioned, and that the Srbin could be treated as desired without being sanctioned. I am deeply protesting one such statement and I believe that all those who have committed crimes must face justice and that all victims of crime must experience satisfaction in determining truth and justice. So truth and justice are two key principles. The crime doesn't know ethnicity, the crime has a victim, and it has whoever committed the crime. And here it's not that problem at all. The problem here is the violation of the sovereignty of the BiH state. The International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, as well as the International Court of Justice's ruling, found that it has committed an act of aggression against BiH. The war in BiH also has an international character from where the right of someone directly involved in the territory of another country, who triggered all this evil that was created in BiH, to take justice into its own hands. And that is the essence of the protest and I want to say it publicly – no international legal document does such a right belong and this is the usurpation of BiH's sovereignty. According to Rome's rules of the road, and by chance those rules have not been made, it has been said that the UN tribunal is assessing, before any court in BiH makes any decision, whether it is an object to be brought before the court or not. The Hague tribunal has said in this case what it has to say, it marked it from person to person with the appropriate markings and only the BiH Court of Justice is competent, real and local to decide on these matters. This cannot be the work of the Republic of Serbia, because it is an alleged crime committed on BiH territory, according to a citizen who is a BiH citizen, and this simply cannot withstand any more serious, legal criticism. And that's the essence of what we need to talk about today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29479	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29480	The Honorable Chairman. I already said in the first part, we can't stand for individual cases. And I'm not disputing myself, I didn't put it here in context whether Mr. Jurišić is of this or that nationality, but maybe it's very good that this nationality is to come and welcome you as an alibi in defending everything or something. Gentlemen, don't appeal to court, so we're dissatisfied. In a camp where I was 44 months old, at the 247th session of April 1995, now the deceased, and do not accidentally respect me for how I abuse it, here, I will also say the rickety of Alija Izetbegović – Srbin are held countermeasured in the camp, people are not responsible. Then will someone answer for the murder of 25 of my companions? First, will it answer for bringing in all men between the ages of 14 and 75, not asking for any responsibility? And there's never been any charges filed. So all men, from children, from 14 to 75 years old, are placed here in the most unconditional conditions that the world and civilizations don't know, where only concrete is meant for the storage of cereals, when you want to open that story. What equality are you talking about? And the other thing, Mr. Bećirović, every time you ran for this topic or started the initiative, you remember that I replicated and said – I would support your principled position that you have ever said, I stress, the people of Zvornik are meant to be in Belgrade, and do not give a qualification whether it is right or not, this court determines, but here, to mention them, they are our citizens, that at least you are protecting the interest of this country and through them. But you made such a euphoria around Ilija Jurišić, not you personally, a special show on television one, the second, the theme of the day on BHT1, special guests, and also Mr. Minister, I don't know, had other obligations, he reported from Belgrade and he said something, but he said correctly, because he was not in the capacity to defend Ilija Jurišić, so some special delegations are preparing to go there. What are you asking us to do? Yes, I, as a representative of the Serbian people who may be enjoying some authority in Belgrade, am going now to kneel to Tadić and say, come on, please, break all these judicial institutions and let Ilija Jurišić go. No, I don't. I'm talking, and I can't be the judge and the prosecutor, but from the victim's point of view, I think it's only a first-degree procedure, I just said, in a second-degree procedure, I'm not asking myself and I can't decide. He got a little bit, someone killed people who were innocent, the doves, who retreated peacefully, they had to answer. I wish it were at the BiH Court, but it's not, it won't. And don't tell me about The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal was an anti-Serbian political court because Carla Del Ponte told me, when I was in The Hague, here's your face, and she listed me five, which will be prosecuted. She never did anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29481	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Željko Kuzmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29482	A brief replica and a correction of the wrong quote. First of all, there's really no need for us to constantly deal with the same subject. Mr. Bećirović is constantly trying to impose the Republic of Serbia as the main problem of the BiH state, so it started from the initiative to discuss the place where Mr. Tadić landed, so over some two MPs in Bratunc, etc. I really have no intention of dealing with these questions anymore. As far as the initiative is concerned, if Mr Bešlagić proposes a principled initiative, as he has now stated, we will support such an initiative, if all... that Mr Novaković also cited is discussed. As for Mr. Džaferović, I have one correction to the wrong quote. So the Republic of Serbia is nowhere to be charged with aggression against BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29483	Replica, honourable Ambassador Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29484	I apologize, I just wanted to tell my esteemed colleague, Šefik Džaferović, that I did not, therefore, establish the relationship of justice or the court to a member of one or another people, but I said that such an impression is made in the general story. As you saw, I never mentioned the defendant, or, in the first degree of the convicted, I was talking about the necessity of individualizing the crime. And when Honorable counterpart Bećirović speaks of who needs to confirm what, you have never convinced me in this home with a single sentence to make it clear that the tuzlanski column is a crime that someone has committed. There are no people, that's why it's a problem, it has to be proved. Also, to an esteemed colleague, Bešlagić, I understand you, you react very emotionally, I probably react emotionally, but I am clear..., I fully understand your relationship with it, but I do not justify it, and I believe that it is a wrong approach, individualization of crime and the processing of this crime would give much greater dignity in every other story and much better way would be towards reconciliation. This is when you said, yes, the BiH judiciary was supposed to do it, you know, when, the Republic of BiH in '92, then you would have strong support for what is... not done. Everyone puts their heads in the sand. I'm not for my villain to be my hero to someone. You fall into that trap that some of them who were criminals are heroes. So everyone who committed a crime is a criminal to me, no matter who he belonged to. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29485	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29486	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to first... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29487	Let the professor finish first, then take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29488	...before I replicate,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29489	Professor, I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. I have a business intervention I have to put before the replica, and that's a break in front of the Mixed Club for half an hour, right? Half an hour. At 12:30 we continue to work and we will work until 1:00, at 1:00 a break is made. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm sorry he doesn't have the chairman of the Mixed Club to explain the reasons they've led him to seek a break. At the same time, we don't even have the honourable MP Ajanović to continue with the replica, so I suggest we start with the reported one. Dear Ambassador Halid Genjac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29491	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So we're in the middle of a debate on the agenda, right? And perhaps a small intervention, that the BiH Council of Ministers, under Article 167, point d, indeed has the right to intervene at any moment in the debates, of course, in the context of these discussions. It might be, in that sense, that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers has also proposed, however, the agenda point, because a great deal has been done, but no complete work has been done. In this sense, I am proposing a agenda point, and I will explain through the explanation very briefly, therefore, that the last item of the agenda be – the adoption of a conclusion on the inclusion of a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to visit the Presidency and the bodies of the European Parliament, in order to present the implementation of the visa liberalisation commitments from the Roadmap. Why? Indeed, in addition to the very unfavourable climate in BiH and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have managed to place a visa liberalisation priority, the most important issue for citizens perhaps at the moment. Despite this very unfavourable climate, great work has been done. Compared to May last year, when an amendment was made to the European Commission Visa Directive Regulation, where it is planned to be found in that group of countries Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia, and BiH and Albania to stay, BiH has indeed made a major shift in these key areas of document security, border security and illegal migration issues, has progressed from a very weak assessment to an excellent assessment. We haven't met all the conditions, of course, and maybe if we had opened this debate today, I don't think the BiH Council of Ministers fulfilled the obligation if two days before the end of the deadline the Law on the Central Anti-Corruption Body. Of course, neither the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can finish its job nor the BiH Council of Ministers has finished its job. That's one example. And there's still plenty of examples like that. However, it must be acknowledged, a really big job has been done and, although we have not met all the conditions, we have past countries that, according to this May regulation, have found themselves white Schengen. And I think that this is why the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has the right to insist in the institutions of the European Parliament and of the European bodies to meet BiH citizens in a group of citizens in which the citizens of Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia have also met, etc. Today, a committee is in session, yesterday a committee is in session, the amendments to the amendment on regulations where BiH and Albania would be under the star, which means that what has been done would be monitored further, how much has been done, and then, if this trend continues, the citizens would be on white Schengen on July 1st. So, this model, if it is accepted by both the Commission and the European Parliament, and finally by the European Commission, would mean that no new regulation has to be written, a new amendment to the Visa Regulation, but would go in one piece. This is of great importance and I think that in the context of, here, at least this debate, the competent ministries must continue their work, intensify lobbying, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Directorate for European Integration, and I think that the European Parliament delegation should also go ahead... because this European Parliament meeting is in November when it is debated whether or not Parliament will support it. And I think it is important to point out that the Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly delegation, points out very categorically that such an approach and the adoption of such a change in this amendment to the directive would mean BiH's recognition for meeting rather difficult conditions. And on the other hand, to be an incentive for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, BiH institutions continue to implement everything that has been adopted. So I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda as last. By then, we would have prepared perhaps the moderations for this delegation to be drawn up, in any case, by our principles which include the representation of peoples, entities, etc. So to ensure and what this commission should achieve, so to describe.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29492	Thank you. Please submit your conclusion and draft agenda in writing. Discuss, Reverend Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29493	I thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say something about what the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Špirić, presented here to Dom and to us MPs. Not only do we welcome this way of communication with the House of Representatives, and at least we can do today to classify one item of the agenda, or in this way that Mr. Genjac predicted, or as one detailed information that we continue to do during the agenda compared to the initiative that he has shown before us here today. I think that we, as responsible people here, should act and accept and welcome the way of communication, therefore, that in one atmosphere in which this or that is announced, however, indicates, here, I would say, the possibility that BiH institutions meet the requirements of the visa liberalisation map. And not only from this, but also from the European Partnership and they are restoring credibility and opening up the possibility of us entering into dialogue for the European Parliament, and that conclusion should certainly come from debate today. I will personally support him. But also, I am sorry that Mr. Špirić is not here that this responsibility he rightly invited us to, he also hears the message that there is a two-way street in this responsibility. That the BiH Council of Ministers, the least it can send now as a message, is to complete its College and act in full composition while the situation in BiH is as it is, and to show good will and a sign of preparedness to address other open issues that absolutely exist and to see us transparently in public, I don't know who is responsible for this lack of these..., I really don't know. I don't have the arguments to say either this or that, to come here to Parliament, so let's say who's blocking the Directorate for indirect taxation, who's RAC, let's hear it and do it that way. As far as this initiative is concerned, Mr Bećirević has submitted. You see, it's legitimately right, and what Mr. Belkić said, I'm not going to go into any word of content at all, not in the way it's open, but what I think we should have done is what Mr. Bešlagić asked for. Let's see what happens to our institutions, the inertness of these institutions, what about other citizens who are tried in other countries, what about human rights violations as a whole. Of course, here, as an incentive can be this. And it would then be a serious debate in which we would not enter interstate disputes and charges in a way that is not appropriate, in this way, by opening the agenda point. I think the SDP should thus prepare that agenda point, that we others do not consider it and open it as a whole. I think he'll get support then. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29494	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29495	The President-in-Office, Dr Milorad Živković, called.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29496	Thank you. I've done everything to open up the agendas that matter to this country today. I'm not saying that the ones that are proposed are not important for this country, but I don't think they were chosen at the right time. We have come to the fact that we have lost three hours of debate over what we have finally agreed that it can be a common point of this Parliament, that the proposaler's wish was to formulate itself in this way. The proposal was that this thing was politicized and that all of us who discussed it were involved in politicizing one case. I would also like to say that while I sit in this place, I will advocate respecting the Rules of Procedure consistently. It is Parliament who, if the three of us do not agree, will be the last word and will give its answer to what we cannot agree on. Just a question, what's the rush? The BiH Council of Ministers did not do what we asked of him, to put the laws that are a condition for visa liberalisation under emergency procedure. I wonder if that's because they don't want to listen to the suggestions of this House or because these laws are not a condition for visa liberalisation? I ask the question, does the OHR, and I can recognize who in the OHR, hastens to do everything over the knee in this country and at the last minute, or can we here agree not to violate the Rules of Procedure and to do important things on time? Niko's stopping us from having a session tomorrow, and nobody's stopping us from doing it next week, and then when the conditions come to the document... and these are the most important documents in one country after the Constitution, criminal law can be discussed with cold heads and arguments. I ask the question is whether the politics of those who want to be clearly said today by the EU that someone is guilty of not liberalising the visa regime for BiH citizens. Is there a message here that even what my esteemed colleague Genjac was talking about will not be fulfilled, that we should be marked with a star? I'm telling you that by putting the Anti-Corruption Coordination Agency Act, we've sent another positive news to Brussels, and we're sure to be on the list of countries that at least the star will be limited, and then during the time that we're about to do other jobs. It's called politics and politics. And politics would be for me to say why it was good to have the minister removed, not to mention which, and it all ended in a month. You know, and that would have been just like the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers respected if he hadn't done his job. Therefore, do not rush, do not break the Rules of Procedure without need. We have every obligation, every opportunity ahead of us, let the cold heads think about this, because it's important that citizens get visa liberalisation, not that the parties get points. Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29497	I have stood up to say that man, as an individual, no matter what religion and nation he was in this country, if he is threatened with human rights, is the most important topic for this country and for this Parliament. And we, if we've lost an hour or two to discuss this issue, we're not an hour or two behind on what I suggested, so the debate on Ilija Jurišić, which should give birth to concrete conclusions, I think we're at least two years late. And we're months and years behind on visa liberalisation. And that's why someone in this country should be responsible. It's a delay that, unfortunately, costs both this people and this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29498	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the proposed changes to the agenda. The proposal of honourable MP Šefik Džaferović is that the laws, BiH Criminal Law, the Law on the Court of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, all in the second reading, are put on the agenda today. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. For 22, against 10, there were no abstentions, an insufficient entity majority. The college didn't achieve consent. We're going to vote in the second round. Please prepare yourselves. You can vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] On a proposal from the Mixed Club, it is required to repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. For 22, against 10, there were no abstentions, 23 from the RS against. This proposal didn't go through. We move on to the proposal of honourable MP Denis Bećirović – Discussion Information on the violation of human rights of BiH citizens Ilija Jurišić, the proposal is as point 15. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. For 21, against 10, abstention 2, insufficient entity majority. There's no consent in the College. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. For 22, against 10, abstentions 1, from RS 23 against. The agenda item is discarded. Proposal for a agenda of Halid Genjac – The adoption of a conclusion on sending a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to visit the President and the bodies of the European Parliament to present their commitments from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. That would be point 22, before ratification, right? Please prepare to vote. Vote now. For 28, there wasn't, like, four abstentions, enough entity majority. I figure it's become a part of the agenda. Please read the adopted agenda. I find that 61st session of the House has the following
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29504	I thank the chairman. Here, I'm, given the fact that it's 2:10 now, not getting into the explanation why we're only on the 2nd item of the agenda, I wanted to suggest that all MPs who have MPs, same deliveries in writing, so that we could move on to other points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29505	Thank you. This is a constructive proposal and I ask Dom – do you agree to ask new questions in writing and allow only those who have answers to questions to be answered now? Please prepare to vote. Vote now. For 19, v. 2, abstention 1. We have a sufficient entity majority. I find that MP questions, those who wish, can be asked in writing. And now, please report to those who want to comment on the answers to the questions asked. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Go ahead. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29509	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29510	You can deliver the question. Further discussions, for those who want to comment on the answers. Denise, is this a comment or is it a question? Remzija Kadrić, is that a comment or a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29511	Almost a year ago, I asked a question that is current today, when it comes to this story of anti-corruption and only a few days ago I received an answer, saying that the BiH Council of Ministers was really supposed to be working a little more. So my question was – why not form a central anti-corruption body at BiH level, although the justice and security ministries on the plan made appropriate proposals. So, we almost had the procedure, we have this anti-corruption law, therefore, I want to say that, when it comes to MPs and Parliament, we have gone ahead of the Council of Ministers of BiH in many things and I ask that, when the next issues are the next questions, that the Council of Ministers of BiH be far more up-to-date in response to parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29512	Thank you. Dear Ambassador, Mehmed Suljkanović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29513	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would like to comment on the question I asked at the 47th session, and that was said – What is the fate of the conclusions of the 47th session of the House of Representatives held on 4 March 2009, and about the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Customs Tariff Act? I am pleased with the expedition of the BiH Council of Ministers who gave me the answer. However, I must also indicate really one fragrant piece of information that is visible from this answer. It is apparent that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has acted after the conclusion of Parliament and delivered in the procedure of the Change of Customs Tariff Act, as instructed by Parliament. In the fourth month of April, the law was sent to the Office for Law, the Directorate for European Integration and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate. The European Integration Directorate responded within a legal period of 10 days, while to this day, I stressed, therefore, in April the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority received an act, here, the grass yellowed, and the answer did not arrive. And I am here announcing to my colleagues an initiative that I will launch and I will ask for, and I hope to get their consent, to approach the amendment of the Law on the indirect taxation system in BiH, if in anything else, at least within the deadline of the Governing Board of the Direct Taxation Authority in which it must respond to the acts it receives from the Council of Ministers of BiH and Parliament of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29514	Thank you. Commentary on the question, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29515	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. One small comment on the response I received from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and actually the answer was made by the RS's competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government. And I am, in fact, renewing this issue for the reason that I asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which did not answer me, but only forwarded me to this RS ministry's response, that 2,624 people were admitted to BiH and RS citizenship from 2000 to 2008. However, my questions below 3rd and 4th have not been answered. That is why I am renewing this issue to the competent ministry, that is, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, to answer my question completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29516	Thank you. Denis, this is a commentary on the response, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29517	Thank you. I would only take advantage, at the shortest, of the opportunity to say that, although many MPs ask a question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we do not get answers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or we do not get them at all. That's why I'd ask the College to try to urinate again on all those outstanding questions, according to those we've asked questions. And here, we agreed today not to ask any new questions, but I'd like to ask that certainly these questions that we've asked today, that they're being written down and that we try to get an answer in the business time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29518	Yes, today we have allowed new questions only in writing, and the College will recommend to all those who have not provided answers to the questions to do so. I'm finalizing the point. We're moving to three agendas, Ad. 3. Declaration on the BiH Post Law Proposal – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-15/09, of 3.2.2009. (second reading) Let me remind you, at the 46th session, held on 18.2.2009, Dom adopted the bill in the first reading. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications submitted the report on 22.4. with 14 amendments adopted. At its 54th session, 27.5.2009, the committee responsible shall make additional efforts to bring the amandman of Amendment IV to Article 7. In accordance with the conclusion of the 54th session, the Commission has reconsidered the Report and concluded that the Commission's report remains unchanged on Amendment IV and that a new amendment V, which becomes an integral part of the Commission's Report, is added after Amendment IV. So we have a total of 15 amendments. At the 55th session, since 10.6.2009, the plea was postponed again, and in 17.9 we received the Commission's conclusion suggesting that the House College should unblock the process of adoption of this law. So today we're just making a statement about the law and there's no debate. Therefore, we move to the point of the four agenda. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and co-operation with the International Criminal Court – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-5-73/09, of 27.7.2009. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29522	So it's all true what you read, Chairman. The commission did it unanimously. There was only one thing that the Commission was willing to solve, but, technically or legally, our position was not a place in this law, and this is a question of the status of assistant attorneys. They need to have the status of assistant minister. This is, therefore, our opinion from the debate we had and we agreed that, by urgent procedure, our colleague Huskić would propose amendments to the Law on Salaries, because that is where it should be taken place, and not in this Law on the Defence. And I ask the BiH Parliament to note this when we vote on this law. This is, therefore, the thing that has been unanimously done, and when the proposal comes from counterpart Huskić, who will refer to this matter by emergency procedure, then we have it in mind, because that injustice needs to be fixed as soon as possible, otherwise we will lose these people who are working in the State's Attorney's Office. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29523	Thank you. I hope we have that in mind, and I hope it will be in the light of the bill's proposings. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-3-72/09, of 23.7.2009. (second reading) At the 59th session of the Law was adopted in the first reading. We received a report from the Commission responsible for foreign trade and customs in 24.9.2009. The Commission unanimously supported the draft law with the adopted four amendments that become an integral part of the report. We also received a notice from the Finance and Budget Commission, which, acting at the conclusion of the House of 59th session, unanimously supported the Law. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Here you go. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda seven. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the "Official Messenger of BiH" – Proposer: MP Adem Huskić, Law No: 01-02-9-69/09, of 15.7.2009. (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29529	I thank you, Chairman. So, I propose that we accept this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries in the Institutions in the first reading, to open up the possibility, indeed, if there is an amendment and the need for this law to be upgraded and to improve the text of this law. I believe, indeed, that this law should be adopted in the first reading, because, here, as chairman of the Commission, we have an extremely big problem in terms of salaries and fees for MPs and other fees. Therefore, here is the essence of this law that we propose to return MPs and delegates to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. It's a principled thing, and I think we should support it. When it comes to erasing and abolishing these fees for board members, we also believe that this is an important thing and that it should be accepted. It is a little strange that this clarification of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, which stands, among other things, if no legal procedure is prescribed to regulate the criteria for determining the level of work compensation on boards, supervisory boards and other bodies, would open up the possibility for institutions to edit the area independently by means of internal acts, which would certainly lead to increased spending of public funds. So, if the law abolishs compensation on boards and supervisory boards, then they have nothing to prescribe by internal acts. We believe that in this situation whoever has a salary for regular jobs should not be compensated for working on boards and boards, and that would be one big step in that part. Therefore, these institutions to which they are concerned would not have the right, the possibility to regulate them internally, as the law would abolish the right to compensation in the boards of directors and supervisory boards and other bodies. We believe that those who are employed, who have regular salaries, should not have it. So, I suggest we accept these amendments and the additions of this law and thus make the amendment phase possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29530	Thank you. All of you have been informed of the BiH Council of Ministers' conclusion since 4.9.2009, which is in favour. I hope you've read that opinion. If there are no more reports to discuss, I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency, coordination of the fight against corruption – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Law in a regular procedure of 28.9. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and principles on 30.9. The Commission supported the constitutional basis and adopted the principles of the law. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Dear, second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29532	I have no intention of wasting our time, but I want one, so to speak, of a principled remark that I do. You see, here, we now have laws in first reading, etc., here, we have come to one of the laws that is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, etc., the promoter is gone. There's no realtor. So, the prime minister we had, the man came and said, here, we're progress, I say, congratulations, all OK and the thing done. So, there's no proposer. In the democratic world, therefore, in legislative processes, etc., whoever proposes the law, he lobbys, he follows it, goes from commission to commission, talks to MPs, comes to meetings, explains, etc., and not simply the thing goes away and he goes away somewhere and then people wonder what it is and how it is. So, when it comes to this law, I, too, have information that he was unanimously adopted at the BiH Council of Ministers, I was also talking about it, but here, I can already see that he has certain reserves in the first reading. On the Constitutional Commission, a number of people showed reservations. Of course, they have the right to do so, they will eventually show it through the amendments, etc., but the presence of a proposing here might eliminate it in the first stage of the moment. People could ask what it was, etc., to ask for further clarifications. So, I am, indeed, sending a message to the BiH Council of Ministers, the resolute ministers that when they propose laws, the minimum that they need to do is to follow that law, lobby for it, explain it, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29533	Thank you. No more registered, honourable MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29534	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will, in the context of this debate, since there are no more applications for first reading, propose one conclusion that, because of the importance of the urgent establishment and functioning of this corruption prevention agency and coordination of the fight against corruption, the House of Representatives at today's session declares on the proposal of this law and in the second reading. In my explanation, here, I will only mention that the Council of Ministers of BiH unanimously adopted the draft of this law and referred to the parliamentary procedure, and since the establishment and functioning of this agency is a condition from the Roadmap for visa liberalisation, given that there is a consensus on this bill, we propose that the representative home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be made known today in another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29535	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, what Belkić was saying, about our relationship and our sincere relationship with what we are doing, is a very important law that is one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. Considering the fact that we got that bill somewhere or yesterday, I don't know either when it was, some didn't even get it, I unfortunately don't have it here right now, but I did manage to, however, take a quick look. It would be at least correct if the Constitutional Commission, as the committee responsible, would inform this house of their position other than what they were showing, in most cases, to support this law. Given the situation and the timing we're in, I'm also not going to talk more widely about this law. I won't, if it contributes to even adopting it in another reading, I have nothing against it, but I am deeply convinced that certain bill proposals can eliminate this agency with a new agency that would have both wider powers and cover this part of responsibility. So I have a certain reserve, but this is what I'm saying – if it all contributes to a step further, I'm giving it up and I'm going to support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29537	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29538	The Honorable Chairman. I'd like to stay on this part right now to support Mr. Križanović's exposure. I believe in the Council of Ministers of BiH, we had countless projects here unanimously and then they sort of fell here, so we were accused -- like they unanimously adopted, and, well, we made some obstruction and we shot it down. I'll admit I didn't win this law, nor did I see it. I've come to this Parliament and told myself, I'll never give anyone my voice and press the button, and I've got three in front of me for something I haven't seen. I'm not going to say that I'm a better knowledgeer of matter than they were working on it, but it's truly devastating that, I don't know, for the hundredth time, we haven't had that many sessions, but we've said the same thing in some sessions 20 times. Well, you remember my statements, I say hello to the front row, there's no one around three chairs. I say hello to the second row, four chairs are gone. I welcome the third order, there's this lady and the gentleman, but they're not from this area. And so are these others. When will someone really respect us? You have a law like this, depending on the liberalisation of the visa regime, and there's no one here, today as if everyone's in a meeting with Obam, well, they have that priority, so it's much more important, and I would say, naturally, that he's the most important person, who I am, but, look, there's no one here today. Let's somehow accept the law in the first reading, so that we can be left with the possibility, but even if we adopt it today in the second reading, it won't solve it right now, if we adopt it, the visa-free regime. We still have laws waiting for us. So maybe it would be as good as a recommendation, that all the things that ad hoc push like this, and we don't get, last night someone got, someone didn't even see, that they were preparing those laws and that they had a more elastic pass here in Parliament, but really when we saw them. I see here who is present and I can say, here, my colleagues are present, but if I don't see anyone in the front row, I can't say sitting there when you don't sit down, people. And I'm not going to give anyone a Bianca, no matter what support it was there unanimously, because if that's the case, then Parliament doesn't need it. The Council of Ministers unanimously made decisions, everything passes. What are we gonna do? So we'd just be in that version of confirmation like that parent when she's getting married, so she says, all the conditions met, come on, sign and he's just there to verify, and he doesn't wonder if you want her or not, they're telling each other if he will. So do we. We are talking to each other here about everything and everything and it is Parliament's jurisdiction, but unfortunately, I have no opportunity to speak to these proposings when they are gone. What do I do now? Now I'm gonna finish the discussion and support the law in my first reading, and I'm not up for going to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29539	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29540	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly express my opinion and support this proposal to adopt this law today in a second reading. In the context of the circumstances, as chairman of the Executive Board of the National Section of GOPAK, I took part in the work of an interresor group working on the drafting of this law. I have been present for several meetings, and I can really only say the words of praise for the work of this inter-resor working group which, at first, started with a lot of opposing views, so that ultimately, with very patient work, there would be one solution that ultimately resulted in this law, i.e. the proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency being unanimously supported by the Council of Ministers of BiH. And I think that this fact itself, and the fact that the law is in a group of those who are related to visa liberalisation, I think that it could possibly affect that my predecessor's attitude, or Mr. Slavuj's attitude, is eventually changed, and I say once again, to praise the work of an interresor group, but I won't be too much to praise because I know, if it's too much to praise, then it'll probably be a contradiction. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29541	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29542	Here, first of all, I would like to support the adoption of one of these laws, and I would also like to join in the commendation for the work of an inter-resor working group that quickly acted and did this law. And as it says in the explanation, European Commission experts and other relevant factors, civil society and others are also consulted, so it seems to me, however, that one, I would say, is a law based on a modern concept. So this agency has no authority as some others here once imagined, as was the proposal of, I think, the SDP, they imagined that the agency also had some different powers, so, another concept, differently conceived this solution. However, this solution is such that it actually allows this problem to finally be regulated institutionally in such a way as to form an agency that, as it writes in its powers, will therefore carry out one coordination, record, monitor the situation and propose certain measures and actions to improve both legislation and strategies, as well as to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Strategy. And I hope, too, that in the future report, it may be a little too optimistic, but we will still read that BiH is not in such an unspeakable high place or rank at the level of corruption and organised crime, but that something will fall on that scale, or that the fight against this great evil will be more effective. I also think that it is very important and that we have been positively assessed by the European Commission, and because of what it says in this law, and because of our willingness to propose it quickly, I hope and bring it, but also important solutions in addition to BiH's Penal Code, where, I would say, in a new way, treat acts of corruption and organised crime, which I am sure will make it much more effective, or more effective to fight organised crime and corruption in this country. And I think that corruption and organised crime in BiH have already reached an extent when it seriously threatens the normal functioning of the BiH government institutions and the overall functioning of life in BiH, in particular I mean individual powers. I expect that this agency will really respond to its task and, I repeat, by its concept, it is conceived as one body that will plan, coordinate, monitor and a little reference to what is missing to the overall system of fighting organised crime and corruption. So, I am particularly pleased by what it says in the explanation that all those who need to be consulted are consulted, in my opinion, and that there has been a green light, i.e. those recommendations or objections that have been made to the text proposal that have been respected, so that I think we have received a rather good and quality law, which, most importantly, seems to me to be implemented, bearing in mind the overall situation, opportunities, from constitutional arrangement to division of jurisdiction, etc., etc., in BiH, which is extremely important and important. So the best one is the law and the solution that has been implemented, which can give effect to a particular given situation as it is with us, and not someone as someone imagined that a better solution might be possible. It may be better under some other conditions, but for the occasion of BiH, I think this is a good solution. We will, of course, support, as a club, this law in first reading. If there's gonna be an amendment, we'll talk about it when it's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29543	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29544	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can join all, almost all discussions so far, what has been praised about this law. Of course we do, and to be honest, I expected it to be a little bit more here, a little more radical, that there would be greater powers given to this agency, but it's probably a matter of the political moment that we're in and can't take anymore. I am sorry that there was no representative of the ministry here who was on the Commission this morning, who, in my opinion, gave quite a good explanation, because there were questions this morning and on the Constitutional Commission, there were some such dilemmas, however, the gentleman who was sitting there, in my opinion, gave very good reasons, so we unanimously adopted this. And in that sense, so I support this law and I said what I think of the text. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's almost unanimous, but I wanted one more thing, so I'm gonna take another step forward. Since he's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29546	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29547	...the esteemed president of the club gives one initiative to make a statement in the second reading, I would, of course, support it, but we have one line in Article 6 which we should fill, and in that sense I suggest, if I am here, I support what counterpart Hadžiahmetović said, that it is adopted in another reading, and I suggest that Bihać be placed here behind this letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29548	Thank you. The word has a respected chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29549	To be clear, the SNSD will support this law in the first reading, but we have more than one objection that this law cannot go in the second reading. The first objection is that speed is not an ally of the wise, that the Law is not, I say, made in accordance with the new technical regulations, not even in accordance with the law that is common in this country. It's impossible to create a member that says "in" even if someone thought he was writing in Bihac. It is impossible to make such a law and there is at least one amendment, in order to at least fill that article, so that the other reading cannot possibly take into account... the vote and move on. If someone is already letting it know that it's not going into another reading, and he clearly said it on the commission, there's no need to insist on another reading, because we're going to be in a position where every law that comes to anyone here thinks it's a good idea to keep the amendment going, to immediately propose another reading. So don't rape the laws this way, there are enough arguments not to suggest another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29550	Replica, the second vice president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29551	So if you don't understand, don't, people, think about anything until you get the signal that you can. Do we understand each other? So, people hold banks and watch what people say. When people nod their heads, we'll go, and when they say no, they can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29552	Dear Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29553	So first, the chairman, let me express at the beginning my expectation, illusoryly, that the Council of Ministers of BiH will have enough filling that one law of this kind, given the specific weight of the time it is being made, will propose by procedure by emergency procedure. If the failure was made by the BiH Council of Ministers, here, we wanted to take a step forward in one way. I think the arguments that probably stand when it comes to technical matters, etc., can be done if there is political will. And I must tell you that, here we have just heard fierce criticism on the account and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers, but the most intense criticism you said earlier in your discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29554	Replica, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29555	That's the answer to the replica. I apologize for the expression I used, it was inappropriate, but at the same time I say it's not a technical thing, it's a crucial thing in this country, and if it's supposed to say Sarajevo, obviously we're still going to be conflicting with it, so that the place of that agency is a crucial thing for us, and you know that we represent decentralisation, and that for a signal that we can't get or get, we're happy to have a lighthouse from where we have a signal, unlike some that are obviously lost in everything. The Honorable First Vice-President, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29556	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. ... I'm commenting on... and the contribution not to rush. The President-in-Office's finding that speed is not an ally of the wise, stands certain. For us long ago she is not an ally in the work of this Parliament, in the work of these institutions, so we certainly belong to the category of those wise, because what we can do very quickly, we will find ways to slow it down in order to preserve the eagle of wisdom. We have one law that's probably not the most perfect, because it's not slow-working. Indeed, he was quick to do so and should not hide it as soon as he was present today at the meeting of this home, and realistically he should have had it in the procedure perhaps a year ago. But what do we do when we do? I am sorry that this law, regardless of, here, these traits that are technical disadvantages, I would say more, but perhaps there will be some political disadvantages, I am sorry that this law was not today one big positive point at "i". However, "and" we have lost in adopting the agenda, so it is completely irrelevant if we put the dot on something we do not have today, on "and" we do not have. So it would make sense, indeed, if we had adopted a much more important law today, in my opinion, that we had adopted amendments to the law, that we had considered, so here we have adopted. I mean, first of all, to the amendments to the BiH Penal Code, because it is certainly the most reliable, most secure tool in the hands of institutions that work to prevent all forms of crime, including those that fall into criminal offences from the domain of corrupt crimes. However, here I say again, we miss that "and", and then it's too high to expect a big or fast point since we didn't have the opportunity today, or, we've been determined not to ask parliamentary questions. And although it seems to have nothing to do with this law and this agenda point, today I was going to warn, through that point, of a wave of violence that has been spreading BiH for a long time and we, unfortunately, have no answer to that either. We have violence in all segments of BiH society, from cartoons to sports competitions. No Niko in this country has any strategy to stand up to that one monster, so to speak, then it's too high, you find yourself in a position not to know who you'd ask, is there anyone you'd even ask what he's going to do to stop it. This law is the Agency's law, not to fight corruption by any repressive means, if anyone thinks it's the law. We already have institutions dealing with it. But we don't have institutions that deal with prevention, we don't have institutions that point to social flows, so to speak, that please that one monster. Just like we don't have institutions that point to the causes of this wave of violence. We don't have this institution either, and someone recognized it well, since we didn't recognize it, among those who set up one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, so it would be good to have one such agency that would deal with research and prevention and propose to other bodies, including us, measures to fight this monster in the best possible way possible. I, here, have no intention of denying my club president, certainly our club will support the proposal of this law in the first reading, and if we choose to consider it in the second reading, we will support it. Until then, if that's what it takes, here, I'm running for the head office of this agency to be in Zenica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29557	We already have two suggestions. Dear Slavko Jovičić, Bihac and Zenica, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29558	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure, the chairman, did not regulate that I had a key of praise, but a replica. I wish we didn't have a replica key at all, but to say, here, commendation. Commendation for Mr. Lozančić's presentation immediately. I expected you, Mr. Chairman, no matter what we're in the same club, to at least say, here, we didn't agree on this, I had no idea what you were going to say, and at least you should have said what Mr. Lozančić said, here, I'll do it again, and you said the same thing. At least I can get a commendation from you if I don't get it from someone else. But good. So Mr. Lozančić here said the point. I call on NGOs, but when that unfortunate Transparency comes out with some table and tells me in 116th place by corruption, and I don't remember, and I don't know if any of your colleagues remember, have you seen any judgments on corruption at relevant institutions that are competent to judge, but have you given up the figure. And I convinced them, and here in Parliament I said, I can't out of courtesy, because it doesn't allow me either my position and my culture, to say – what are you lying about, sick? We're the 12th in the world on that list. Here, I claim 12. Come on, deny me. Like they say, 116. I deny them and say what's your data? He says we're making a survey. So what poll? So ask every man on the road, who is the greatest thief – a politician. Is that relevant? Is that true? Is that so? Of course not. That's how it happens to us, even with this law that we need, we need something for every law. And I want, of course, to take this opportunity, to say, to get the support of this House of Representatives to propose my conclusion that for the most serious crimes and monsters that destroy each country, they determine the maximum penalty – 40 years, terrorists, drug dealers, rape 9-year-olds, 7, trafficking in white slaves, and all these most severe forms of crime, I see changes and additions to the Criminal Code, there is no such thing. Well, of course I'll vote against him, and then tomorrow someone will honor me for challenging the law that is a condition for visa liberalisation. That's not true. This state must have mechanisms, so through this Corruption Agency, no matter what she doesn't have much authority, but through Criminal Law to deal with mobs and thieves. I keep saying it - the state must not let the mob and thieves win, and this is the situation today, what Mr. Lozančić says, violence is hara. Fortunately, it's not that much yet, but why do we always have to wait and react to the post-festum? Let's warn, maximum sentence, what are we afraid of, 40 years for harder forms, so let's see what's dealing drugs and poisoning those kids, when they're 25 years old, will they come out at 65, will they come to mind? No, of course not. We're afraid of something. Of what? Let's move into a general reform of everything, help the people, the citizens and give the state mechanisms to deal with all the monsters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29559	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29560	My colleagues and colleagues. I can't shut up one thing that I've noticed for a long time, is, sometimes I talk about it and today I noticed it at the session itself. I probably won't change anything, but at least I'll let those who think they can run the game or run the process, so they know that this thing is recognized, I think we're all reasonable people here and we see, we can estimate who, what, how much and at what point it works. I, when I listened to the BiH Council of Ministers this morning, Mr Špirić, and I am sorry that he is not here, when he said in his statement that the Council of Ministers of BiH has met almost all or all the conditions of the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the BiH visa regime, and when he also called on the BiH Parliament to do the same, I least expected that, let's say, today Parliament, except that he would adopt this law in another reading, put on the agenda even if the amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law, which are practically finished and prepared, are there, is it, and I expected, of course, that he would be present here at Parliament's session. I mean, one of the tactics that has been present for a long time when it comes to meeting these conditions, that the first things are being stopped in the BiH Council of Ministers, and then, for these or those reasons, when these things are defined there, they come to the BiH Parliament, but then, in the BiH Parliament, even though there should be a political agreement on all issues, because the parliamentary majority acts primarily in the BiH Council of Ministers, so, right, there should be nothing disputed in Parliament. I had to say this, and I would very much be, let's say, pleased to sit in Nikola, that is, Mr Špirić there and ask him what's going on right now, which is why we can't, here, and he's from SNSD and SNSD is in the parliamentary majority here with other political parties, what's the problem now so there's no, let's say, that Criminal Law adopted in the text that came from the Council of Ministers of BiH, what's the problem to adopt in the second reading and this law. Because I'm afraid we're not in a position, we've been in a similar position, and because of a similar position, I think we've been seduced and we've paid the price, a tough price, because we've lost 7-8 months to a year in visa liberalisation. If you remember those laws from earlier, those 4, 5, 6 laws, they came from the BiH Council of Ministers as a unanimous proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers, and then problems were made here in parliament. I call on you, therefore, to break this practice, to deal honestly with this issue and we have the right to invest amendments, no one slows it down for us, but, if some points of dispute, political nature, are resolved within the Council of Ministers of BiH, in the manner in which they are resolved, don't at least hit these points of dispute with amendments, because then we are actually hitting the foundations of the law itself. I had to say this. For example, today I expected this law to be in a second reading and thus send the right message. However, we will adopt it today in our first reading, probably, but that doesn't really mean that we have sent a positive signal of the quality that we should normally send, as Parliament. And one more thing, we're being followed and the foreigners here, I think, and they know it more and more together, and let's not be surprised at the reports coming from Brussels because I don't know anything and that I've been listening to the BiH Council of Ministers, only this morning as it says, I was ready to turn to the European Commission and talk to them, because that's how the man told the speaker that we are, here we are, but we're going to get in the car and we're going to get on the train together with Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia. Actually, things are completely different and I want to talk about it publicly and that this thing is known, that this thing is recognized, I think. If we can fake ourselves, we can't fake the European Commission, we can't fake others who follow us, and this, however, depends on the European Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29561	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29562	Thank you. Third item of the agenda, the Law on the Post Office of BiH, we had another spring in this parliament. The law that passed unanimously in the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Law that the working group agreed, by you and your SDA members came into question today. The conspiracy theory can always be found and I also say that those who in the Council of Ministers of BiH have obstructed, knowingly, the adoption of the Law on Police Agencyes, those who have rules on this consciously obstructed, are no longer there today, and we are one step further. There was a conspiracy, along with part of the OHR, which wanted BiH to stay out of the way of the EU. Therefore, do not talk about the conspiracy in BiH in the way you opened it, because this story here is much more important and much stronger and I will give you much more arguments about your conspiracy than the conspiracy you're talking about. Replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29563	Just one short, little answer, Mr. Chairman. I mean, the Post Law isn't on the list of this map times, I mean, it's, like, a little difference, is, like, what we're talking about. And the other thing, when it comes to these police laws, we didn't obstruct anything, we had from the beginning to the end the attitude we had and he passed. If we wanted to obstruct it, this to obstruct has all the mechanisms you want, but we were against and let go, the laws were passed. We know, we're not yesterday, so you can't compare those situations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29564	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29565	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. The right to tell you, the SDP will support this law in the first reading, although this agency, according to what is proposed here, could also be in the Bureau of Statistics, because here only, in fact, collects data and talks, possibly, without any, I would say, the right to run some activities, etc. However, we will support it, because we think that, at least today, that we, unfortunately, here in this House love ourselves to accuse ourselves and ourselves of distracting ourselves, to talk about who's the opponent, who's the one who's against, because here it's proposed to go to another vote. Please, the Council of Ministers has been tasked by this Parliament to bring all laws relating to liberalisation into the process, if necessary by an urgent or shortened procedure. Since they didn't do it, we're taking responsibility here, and ourselves, we're accusing each other for nothing, we're getting bored, instead of saying, gentlemen, the Council of Ministers, you had that opportunity. That's the only reason I want to point out that I, or we in the SDP, will not support this going into another reading. But let's note that this could have been in the second reading today that the Council of Ministers asked to be handled in a reduced procedure. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I don't know who I'm talking to, but, here, Selim tells you, you haven't done what we, as Parliament, have given you, and in fact you are obstructing liberalisation and entry, let's say, the citizens of BiH in the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29566	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29567	The replica refers to you, Mr. Chairman. To the very mention of the Law of the Post Office, as I recall, we have agreed all amendments, except for the amendments that you have tabled. And I don't see any reason why the SDA, or members of the SDA, are mentioned to obstruct the adoption of this law, is up to you from the College whenever this law is on the agenda, to make a statement about it. Here, he finally saw the light of day on the agenda. Therefore, if anyone can be brought into the context of obstructions, then it is you, because, in fact, it is disputed and it is your amendment when it comes to inspection jurisdiction, where you asked it to be at the level of the entity, and in the law it was meant to be at the level of the state. Therefore, I see no reason why anyone in the U.S. is even mentioned to obstruct the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29568	I don't think it's necessary to comment on this when you know it's not like that, but it doesn't matter. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29569	Thank you, Chairman. Well, of course this law is important and should be passed. However, I thought that because of the Internet monitoring and the reaction of Mr Beriz Belkić, one of the promoters would come here in the meantime and answer some questions by the end of the discussion. I, for example, have a misunderstanding with Article 6 and today I can't say anything about this law because Section 3, the line has been drawn, which someone was already saying, and it's inadmissible in law to come like this, even if it's in the proposal and in the draft, it wouldn't come like this, but it would have to explain what this means to be a seat and a line. So, I can't give consent to this law at all today because after that, someone will ask me where the seat is going to be, and I can only fold my shoulders. So, these are some kind of objections to the seriousness of the work of the promoter that I have pointed out before, that, indeed, it is not enough just to propose a certain law and thus finish the job and still place it in the public that this law has gone away from the promoter. It is enough to make a law such that it has a critical mass of all the relevant factors that should adopt it. I think they learned from this and maybe they're hearing this on the Internet, so they're thinking whether or not they should come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29570	Thank you. I conclude, Jozo Križanović, did you want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29571	If I may.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29572	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29573	Thank you. I, indeed, would not want to spoil the approach to this debate on this law, but I am offered just, here, by the debate of some colleagues who talk about how sincere we are in certain efforts to really make real steps towards Euro-Atlantic integration. This reminds me overwhelmingly that BiH is doing nothing out of the belief, its own belief that it needs something, but is working on pushing and conditionality from the European Community. It reminds me of this, the right to tell you, of the adoption of the Police Reform Act. You know how it was, that we then violated all possible procedural provisions of our business and brought, in a way, fast, five to twelve, police laws that allowed the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Now we have the same relationship, the same teat and the same procedure. Here, so I'm saying that we are not mistaken for getting a really necessary and good law for BiH, let's be aware that today's adoption of it in the first reading meets one procedure and some kind of, let's say, we're trying to keep up with this visa liberalisation. So, we will very hard to raise hands for this law, aware that there is no quality, there is no fight against corruption, but here, in the interest of the citizens of BiH, if there is liberalisation, so that this is not a distraction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29574	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2008, submitr: BiH Presidency, Report No: 01.02.16-1-1001/09 of 7.8.2009 The BiH presidency delivered the report on 7 8 August, and the financial and budgetary committee submitted its opinion on 25.9 and the Commission unanimously supported the report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29577	I don't know, if I'm the only one, I can give up, but I can't say one thing very short. I'm not going to comment on any numbers, or the report that follows by the revision, but I'd like to comment on just one segment, that's the issue of grant distribution. In fact, the BiH Council of Ministers, you see, I don't think I'll be misunderstood, of the 3 million and some grenades available to the BiH Council of Ministers, is about 45%, by rough reckoning, assigned to religious communities and churches. Of course, don't get it wrong, of course I approve, as I approve of helping every NGO or association of citizens in the fields of culture, sport, art, etc., and all that is necessary. However, over two hundred and something, 270 or 300, as far as I'm concerned, is stuck with about one that talks about the award of a grant to the Drina Srebrenica Association for the Rights of Health Insurance of Returnees and Domicillal Population in Bratunc and Srebrenica. Two pages before this information you have information about the spending of the Special Fund for Srebrenica, so it's called something, and from that information it claims that more than 8.5 million, which were available, have not been spent. Out of 10 million, about a million and a half were spent. And at the same time, in the same Srebrenica, some kind of modest 4,000 marks are given out of the grenade for some kind of help to the returnees. I think this is one indicator of the entire farce we're seriously approaching the issue of a return problem. For years... there is, therefore, a neutral fund of funds to return. Here, I won't spread any further atmosphere, I don't think there's any more interest in this. I just wanted to point out the relationship to the funds, the state money, that is... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29578	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29579	I thought, I apologize, for this point – the audit of institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29580	No more reported under point 12. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There is, I'm sorry, isn't there?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29582	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29583	Dear Representative, Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29584	Gentlemen chairman. I won't be long, as always, I'll be short. I would just like to remind myself that we have often discussed these reports at the Finance Commission and it is indeed a great contribution from the Audit Commission and it has certainly made a great contribution, what is problematic and what should be our concern is what the revision recommends. So, the revision recommends everything we need to do and everything our ministries and our ministers were supposed to do. And it is absurd that the revision recommends that legal, sublegal acts be passed, that various rules be adopted. So all of this should work and bring it back. [[Common discussion]] The 12th is now the point. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29586	It is not unusual to discuss the other within one point, but, if the honourable representative is not in progress, we are currently at the 12th point. Report on the implementation of the BiH Institution Budget. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29587	Okay, technical error, okay. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29588	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 13th point of the established agenda, Ad. 13. Report by the Office for the Auditing of BiH Institutions on the Review of the 2008 Budget of BiH Institutions, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, Report No: 01-16-1-1080/09 of 11.9.2009 The BiH institutions' audit office delivered the report on 11.9.2009. The Commission responsible for Finance and Budgets delivered its opinion on 25.9 with the following conclusions: 1. The Commission requests the Ministry of Unrealised Recommendations of 2007 and 2008 to be implemented and to make known within three months of their implementation. And below 2. The Commission, in cooperation with the Office, will establish supervision of the implementation of the recommendations and will ask the Ministry for written information on the degree of implementation of the recommendations within three months. I'm opening a debate. There he is. Now comes the esteemed representative, Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29590	I will just continue the discussion and support what my colleague has just discussed and, indeed, all of this regarding the revision is also about what my colleague has discussed, the disastrous distribution of funds across all institutions. What is important to us, indeed, is that the revision has done one major part of its work and has seen the disastrous situation of the ministries and the catastrophic spending of budget funds and what I just said, what is the greatest absurdity is that most of the ministries did not pass a legal, sublegal act that was required to do. And the question is, how could they work? What's the problem for us is that we here have, indeed, good recommendations of review and what needs to be done in the future... ie. that our ministries are planning badly. By misplanning the budgets, bad spending comes later. And what's the same problem for us, so that commission and the audits that we've formed are excruciating extra funds, and they're going to figure out again next year that one part of these jobs are going to be done and not.?.. So now the review committee is buying cars while it's being settled, while it's being settled, they're still spending money, and, in fact, their findings are just for us talking about something bad going on. And what's most important -- are we going to succeed and get the strength to, in the next budget, this year, mean we're discussing important things, to make this right and thus be justified and audited, and so are we sitting here. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29591	Thank you. The next is a respected representative, Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29592	Well, here's the find of the audit as it is, so here are the qualifications that are quite like this, I'd say, and demanding, in terms of removing these shortcomings that they give through qualifications. And I expect the Ministry in this year, therefore, with its work, and that is, the reporting period for... the reports we're going to consider in a year, that this will all be removed. Also, the list of recommendations implemented is not short, but also a list of recommendations that are not implemented is not short either. But I hope, however, that the Ministry will realize that. However, what I am interested in and what is the reason for my reporting is the following question. On the last page, in the second row, we have interest and compensation for the undrawn EBRD loan, my question is – What is the state of this year, what is this year, for these, here, what, nine months, fees and interest for unreserved assets, and reserved funds by not only these banks, but also some other financial institutions and banks, and above all I mean the European Development Bank and others? Because it's known, there was also talk here, in discussions on various issues, and especially about the corridor, building highways on Corridor Vc, it's mentioned, it's mentioned, and we've said it several times, booked something over a billion KM. I'm curious – how much does it cost us to book those funds that aren't withdrawn? If you don't have the correct information, however, I expect at least an assessment. So beyond that, I think it's a good basis for talking about how and in what way, how responsibly all of us together in this country behave responsibly at the time of the recession, and we could say the economic crisis in BiH, when all the countries in the world are trying to solve this issue, this problem of...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29593	I'd like representative Jovičić to look out for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29594	...the more effective way. They think that the increase in investment is one of the main measures, along with the others, and we have a reverse situation here. So, if we had the means, and that side, for the investment, and very specific, and we instead of realising it, we're paying the fees and interest to unrealise these insurance funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29595	Thank you. The next is, the next is a prominent representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29596	Thank you, Chairman. I read it carefully, we have a report on the execution of the Budget Institutions for 2008, so part of it, and I am talking about the 2008 report and the revision of the Budget. So, two agenda points relating to last year, and a good part of the discussion is related to the situation in this year and in the coming years. Well, I know that the finance and vault ministries, i.e. the competent institutions, have the obligation to submit this report, and I know that it requires time, but here we are in September... we are talking about the economy, that is, this segment of our economy in the past year, when everything in the world economy and the economies of all countries has changed. I just want to draw attention to the need to have a report that isn't just the Ministry's obligation once a year. I, for example, have data for half a year 2009 and if we can change something over the year, that we meet what was planned for 2009, it's worth nothing to us to discuss in September or late September how the bribery was in revenue, how there's a submerge or transfer in some items of expenditure, etc. Because this year is indicative. Here, I'll just turn my attention, let's say, we have, for example, on the total revenue for this year 2009, the projected financing item, the purposely transferred surpluses from previous years of 102 million. You know what the execution projection is, which is the execution index - 0%. I just took this as one example. Here, take, let's say, foreign debt service income, our execution index is 32% in six months. These are disturbing things. I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to put this half-yearly report in our parliamentary procedure, to discuss this and see what we can change by the end of the year, if we can encourage some activities. Here I am, let's say, and at the expense point, at 60% of the execution in the first six months we have, in direct transfers... So, we have some items where we can stop here and maybe make some contribution, this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with our conclusions, perhaps even suggestions, to commit other institutions to execute Budget and to the income and expenditure item as we adopt it. This 2008 debate, take care, that's 2008. Here, just so much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29597	Business intervention, second vice president, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29598	In fact, we didn't understand each other very well, so I want to take the opportunity to remind the people who are here, from the Ministry of Finance, who, indeed, carry this kind of work, of course, are going to remind the people who were in Parliament at that time, that we have had a heated debate on this topic that Azra is talking about, therefore, about the urgency and data at the right time. And then we here in the BiH Parliament were convinced – the technique, it can't be before 30.6. next for the previous... etc., so, and there has never been an initiative to change the matter in the law, therefore, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, as I recall, it was arranged, therefore, that the report is submitted until 30.6. the current year for the previous year. So, I ask the Ministry of Finance people, have things changed and is it possible to move at least three months ahead? And please tell this Parliament, do you intend to change it, can you change it and whether you are qualified now, unlike the time you came out here with arguments that it is impossible before, Malta, the seventh, the eighth, the eighth year for the previous year.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29599	Thank you. We've got a replica of business intervention, Your Honor, First Deputy, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29600	Thank you, Mr. President. This is, I don't know, I can't say the replica, but I don't know how else to react. We very often leave the position of the desired structure and then discuss it in that context. We have constitutional positions the way we have them, and in many parts I don't like them, they don't make sense. This is also a reaction to the statement by prominent representatives of Azra Hadžiahmetović and distinguished representative Beriz Belkić, with all due respect to the people, the finance ministry official, they are not the subject here today, nor are they the applicants of any of these reports. First, the report on the implementation of last year's budget reports the BiH presidency, not the BiH Council of Ministers, not the Finance Ministry. Secondly, the report is the report of the Office of Audit, here, I use the occasion, since I did not while chairing, to welcome the deputy chief auditor who is here and who can make certain comments, answers, etc. So, the second thing is that it would be normal for the BiH Ministry of Finance to propose, the Council of Ministers, the budget and be responsible for the implementation, etc., to report, all of this would be, but since that is not the case, it means that it would not remain a false idea that the Ministry of Finance had not done something that had to be done. So, the Ministry of Finance has done everything possible under the existing conditions and circumstances, and that's probably why we can't expect a realisation report in the last year, because we need to go through all these very difficult procedures, from the processors over whoever's proposing, to get to us here. Procedures don't work like that. When we agree to change that, then we can ask the Ministry of Finance for what the Ministry of Finance does in every normal state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29601	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second deputy, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29602	It really is a replica. So I had no intention of attacking people or the Ministry of Finance, I had the intention of attacking a practice that didn't change, counting that things had changed. The finance ministry, we all know very well, is the processor and carrier of this job, is the BiH Presidency and the Budget Proposer, is, and the BiH Presidency is submitting some reports and so, it's all true, but we know exactly who the processors are. And my intention was just to encourage an initiative to change the deadline when a report was submitted for the previous year. To be there by March 30th of the current year for the previous year and nothing more. And I think that's possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29603	Thank you. We're moving on to discussions. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29604	The Honorable Chairman. I don't know, if anyone's surprised that I'm reporting this much today, I announced ten sessions ago that my economic issues are now in order. First, I apologize to Mr. Lozančić, the Honorable Chairman until a few minutes ago for warning me, since he's going to enter the stenogram, I want to publicly apologize, because you're right. It's not exactly code, but I'm active when I speak, but, then, a little consultation, so I apologize publicly, so, to warn me, that's good. Now, talk after the teacher...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29605	No throwing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29606	Now, when I'm talking, you need to warn one ten, 'cause everybody gets one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29607	Here, I warned you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29608	Oh, good. It's the easiest thing to say after Professor Hadžiahmetović and I'll always take this opportunity to learn from her, of course, and that's the most honest thing, if a man can't hear anything, even if he does repeat it, it's not superfluous. But I'm going to say something, what no one has ever said or said before. Audit reports, we have them by the ministries, by the agencies, anyway, we get and we discuss, we get these summation recommendations like this, I don't know either. And here at Parliament, we have looked several times, because there were reasons, in fact, indications, the basis of the suspicions, that this is said by the police jargon, to get into trouble, to see if someone was actually committing abuses, whether it was an archeological pair, whether it was a javelin, a wasteland, an unintended use, and a series of other abuses. The competent institutions that should deal with the team, following these recommendations from auditors, the SIPA, the prosecution, have never reported anything to us, as far as I know, or it's a secret so I don't know. Well, then these guys are planning various agencies, including our auditors, who I give credit for doing this to, but they've been planning for themselves 200 thousand marks, three new cars in this recession, so they've been doing a little bit of rebuilding. And I'm asking now – does anyone have the moral right to honor someone in this economic crisis, when, here, we're giving up 10% on the basis of pay, so these fees, and none of the journalists are going to publish it, so I don't repeat what we're going to give up yet, many things. But gentlemen, the auditors of the 200 thousand marks have mutilated three new cars. And that should be the question of this House. It's easy to ask for money and show up at Šakota's and say we need it, says we planned it well. I'd have planned better than them, I'd have planned 500 thousand marks. But they were convinced they would get it and they spent it. Now I'm asking, here, this publicly here gentleman – which cars you bought, at what prices, was that a tender, what was it, that I audited you publicly, like this, politically.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29609	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29610	I answered for the discussion, it wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29611	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29612	You've made a mistake, Mr. Chairman, I'm taking care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29613	Here you go, but stick to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29614	I'm sticking to the agenda, so I'm going to accept your suggestion as if it's a replica, and I'm not going to support this report, because I have too many recommendations here, and no one is doing anything, and I'm not going to do anything to make these recommendations come true once, and to get to the end of this ride and chaos. These reports, this is called chaos, this is called, I don't know what term I'd use, it's just not normal, and it's supposed to take care of what's planned and what's allowed to be spent. So I won't support, I'm saying, of course, on my own behalf, any report that comes, no matter what quality he is, if I see, or at the end of every page, recommendations, what recommendations, who he commits, what does the recommendation make? I recommend you not to send us recommendations, but to send to the competent institutions to arrest thieves if they have committed acts and spent money in vain there. It's the right line of business in the command line of you who are in charge of controlling. And here, thank Bog, here, the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Šakota, you have no responsibility, feel free to look up, raise your head, because I always criticize you, today I don't have, thank Bog, the reasons, you're nothing to blame here, thank you, and you, sir, send all the recommendations you want, there's nothing left of them, write them down another three hundred. This will continue to be consumption even bigger, worse, wasteful to the end, bit by a donkey wolf, the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29615	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29616	Dear counterpart Jovičić, who, by the way, belongs to that ruling part of this parliament, said the situation is chaos. And since no one's replicated him, I assume everyone agrees that the current situation is chaotic. Enough, there are things here that really worry and that could be talked about for a long and long time, but here, I'll try to be as specific as possible and focus on one question. Namely, on page 29. The audit reports, i.e. on page 27, explain, among other things, this problem relating to the purchase of motor vehicles. And it literally says that in motor vehicles, at the level of BiH institutions, there is no single position on the purchase of vehicles, as well as on the use of official vehicles, etc. In short, a real anarchy in this area. The question arises – Why is this problem still messy, here, and after three years since this is the BiH Council of Ministers in this term? To whom is such an unsettled climate in this matter, is it used or abused, that is the real question? That is why I would like, if anyone from the BiH Council of Ministers can, of course, prefer to get the answer from the chairman or the finance minister, to answer a few questions. First question: 1. Why is there no uniform attitude within the BiH Council of Ministers regarding the purchase of motor vehicles? 2. Why is there no single position on the use of official vehicles, the number of official vehicles? Next, three. Why is there no attitude that the type of vehicle should be used within the Council of Ministers of BiH, how often should the fleet be renovated and why there is no justification for the purchase of new vehicles? It would be good if we could also get an answer to this question, given that a similar issue is being addressed by this parliament's Investigative Commission, which cannot provide the quorum and forward the information it has come to here in parliament, because Parliament has formed this investigative commission to show how it is managed and how the funds of BiH citizens are being spent. In fact, only the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers has, in the last year and a half, acquired a vehicle of 219 thousand KM in a time of this severe economic crisis, with full equipment costing only tens of thousands of marks. Of course, there is no end to the story and the question is what other ministers have been doing, deputy ministers, etc. Once we get that data, the situation in this area will be even more worrying than it is now. It would be good, therefore, if we could get, as MPs, and answer some of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29617	Dear Ambassador, Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29618	...I didn't mean to, and I have to get back to you briefly, however, to protect the Office's independence, because I see there have been a lot of discussions here that, Malten, the Office of Audit doesn't do its job. In my opinion, this is one of the most important institutions in the BiH state that achieves the best results. Follow these audit reports, there was one positive, then five, and now twenty positive. They have no repressive measures, they have, a colleague of Jovičić, only preventive measures and write recommendations. They do their jobs, they send institutions and prosecutors and SIPAs, and, therefore, it is up to us here, at the BiH Parliament, to bring a legal framework to sanction or that others should work. And when there's a report from the D.A., then you have to ask them why they didn't do anything on the audit report. In my opinion, we are going to these various seminars in the surrounding countries, the state Audit Office of BiH is much better than in the minority, in Croatia, there was no revision in Serbia, in Montenegro 15, Macedonia. So other countries are lagging behind our office. Well, you see, gentlemen, that every year they do everything and one institution and every institution has a shift and they always find something. Last year life insurance was cut, this year the focus on tuition, paying, enrolling in postgraduate, there's no competition for a job and paying him there in postgraduate, there's nowhere to be found. Someone can't pay tuition from budget funds. It's the Audit Office, so every year they do their job and, as far as I can see, they're so... in the financial audit that they won't be able to do what they're doing anymore, but they're going to move on to impact review and I thank them and it's an honor for them. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29619	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29620	Well, you know, if you want to make a media presentation of something like, in a certain sense, an observation and something that will fascinate the public with marginal things, then you can do it easily and find it in every report, therefore, not counting these reports from all BiH institutions. I would like to say on behalf of the Club that we will support this report, therefore, as a whole, the report on the implementation of the budget and the report of the audit service. I Ponović what my colleagues have previously said, so for the first time, an analytical representation of the total expenditures achieved at the level of BiH institutions has been done here, certain tasks have been set, some shortcomings have been indicated. It is impossible in BiH institutions for one year to put into order the overall situation, which, as in the whole system, is chaotic. But objectively, if anyone reads the reports that were serious, I won't say for the previous period, but I'm talking about 2006, 2007 and 2008, these are incomparable indicators of the introduction of the situation. We were adopted last year, last year, I think, the Internal Audit Act, an internal audit service was formed for institutions, and for all institutions that have income below 10 million KM, which have a budget, in fact, lower than 10 million marks, they use this as a service, and institutions that have a larger budget have directly employed internal audits. Significant steps have been taken to improve internal controls. A public relationship has been made, in the perception of the public, that BiH budgets cannot be spent on a wake-up call. There are, the fact is, in certain ministries, in certain institutions in BiH, certain failures, but we cannot generalise it as a phenomenon, as a situation in which we all participate. So I believe that parliamentary oversight of the spending of these funds must go in that direction. Strengthening, therefore, the main audit services and fully independent, in this sense, strengthening the internal audit service in improving internal responsibility controls within the institution, therefore, accounting and responsible persons present. And I also have to say the same thing to me impressively, that in the 32 reports we have discussed on the Commission so far, it has not happened that any of the representatives of an institution who had an opinion with the reserve has not appeared to us and has not expressed their views on how this will improve. So it's unnecessary now to say, you can always say that there are certain... or out of our context you get the impression that it's a chaotic state. I think the situation is significantly better, it can be even more significant to improve, I believe that the role of these financial committees and the budget of both homes, which literally carry out this surveillance and consider the reports of the main audit service and strengthening and the institution of the main audit service, will significantly improve... And one more thing, I will say, one remark, there are huge public funds in BiH, therefore, public funds that are from the country's citizens' taxes, which, unfortunately, are still not fully subject to this control. And in that sense, first of all, I mean continuous monitoring of local communities, funds, public institutions, of local, cantonal and entity interest, meaning continuity in this monitoring. As far as the state is concerned, I think it's incomparable in 2007 and 2009, when we analyze the 2006 report, i.e. 2008 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29621	Thank you. Anyone else want to take your word for it, anyone? I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Agriculture report ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I asked anyone, and there's the deputy general auditor, no one answered the word, and I concluded the debate. I don't want to force anyone to answer the word if they don't want to answer the word. Ad. 14. Agriculture report for BiH for 2008 – applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, Report No: 01,02-28-988/09 of 27.7.2009.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You yourself read that the Commission is proposing to the House of Representatives to adopt a report in the field of agriculture for BiH for 2008. Then, in this memo, we also have in the material a memo from Minister Mladen Zirojević, who says that at his 94th session, held on 16.7.2009, the BiH Agriculture Report for 2008 and tasked the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to submit the report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. Let's move on, then we have a decision from the BiH Council of Ministers saying that the BiH Council of Ministers held at the 94th session, held in 16.7.2009, discussed the 2008 Agriculture Report for BiH, and in this regard tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to submit the report in question to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. Here... something wrong – considered, then in debt. And what did they consider? And they task the ministry to deliver this report to us that we adopt it without any stance of the BiH Council of Ministers. I am interested in the position of the BiH Council of Ministers. What does that mean? Maybe they had some objections, maybe they didn't. Furthermore, it is not clear to me whether this information, which is so called, should be adopted or received into knowledge, or not information, but a report, because this, in my view, is more information. If that's something we can take in, I'll take it. If there is something we should vote on and adopt, it is, in my opinion, questionable, because downstairs, in the last position of Mr Mladen Zirojević's memo stands, he says – it is a public document that is published and internally distributed to all key institutions at all levels, which allows for new development and better planning and implementation of policy measures for next year. The report as a report wasn't badly done, it was well done, maybe it was just supposed to be in the form of information. Furthermore, what happens if we don't adopt this report for something, if we don't do this report by not adopting it next, and that's -- that the calendar of fairs that were held in 2008, they weren't held, if we don't adopt it, or this is a sign that we have to adopt this, because what's written here, that's what happened. In my opinion, this needs to be corrected and we need to see if this is a report or if this is information, or if we're adopting this, or if we're taking this into knowledge. That's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29625	Thank you. Generally, reports are being adopted, information is being received. Our commission considered it at its session and suggested that the report be adopted by the House. Thus, all the misunderstandings about it were solved. An honourable MP, Jerko Lijanović, also appeared for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29626	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. How important agriculture is in the EU countries, and this example is that the EU has asked us to commit, through our Agricultural and Rural Development Act, that each year this House is considering the situation in agriculture, i.e. to obtain a comprehensive report, to be familiar with the situation in which agriculture is located and, then, to take certain measures, if it considers that this should be improved or let the measures take place on their own, if it considers that this should be made worse, but mainly, that no agricultural failure should occur and that the most legislative body was not familiar with it. This report, apparently, and on the Commission has received unanimous support, has been thoroughly and very well done and it paints a disaster in our agriculture that has obviously been going on for many years. We have taken the obligation, in fact, to accept the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. In this EU accession, nearly 50% of the legislation applies to agriculture, telling us again how important agricultural activity from the EU countries is. When we look at the report, I'm just going to highlight a few things, because we've talked a lot about agriculture in past sessions, on page 20, we have a degree of capacity utilisation in the food industry, where we see that almost all branches are used below 50%. The most used milk processing is 54.6%. So we have completely empty capacity to process agricultural products. The exact areas of unprocessed land are not listed here, but the situation is similar, that below 50% of the farmed land, and we all know that we have half a million unemployed. So we have unemployed people, we have a wealth of nature, a land we haven't processed, and we have processing capacities that we haven't employed, but besides all these resources, we've opted for food imports. So on page 46, we have a table that speaks of imports and exports and coverage of imports by exporting agricultural products of 15.22% in 2007, and 15.65% in 2008. So, much lower coverage compared to the entire coverage we have in BiH, which is slightly higher than 40%. It tells us that we've been on the wrong path for a long time, so we've left empty resources, left unemployed people behind, and we're importing food. Something has to be done in haste, because if it still takes a few years, we will be too late to do anything, because pre-accession EU funds, which give money to agriculture, give only to those who have production. Once we become a member of the EU, we will be able to draw from the European budget incentives, but again, if we have production. And once we join the EU, the increase in production will go very hard because the quotas are limited and every country, when it joins, receives certain quotas according to its production and each increase will go very hard. We tried something to work in this home, we had a law on the protection of domestic production with which we tried to do something. Unfortunately, the BiH Constitutional Court did not allow the law to apply. Here, we don't know yet, I've received information from the BiH Constitutional Court that we'll get an explanation of that decision somewhere during the next month when they make it, and we'll get to know why this law is unconstitutional, so we'll probably have the opportunity to remove provisions that are unconstitutional and hopefully pass a new law that protects domestic production, because without protection, objectively, it cannot be recovered. But protection won't be enough, we need a far, far greater incentive than our neighbours, a dozen times more than BiH, or as the EU has it, so 43% of the budget or 100 billion marks this year, which is a thousand times more than BiH. I have sent a Law amending the Taxation Act which is in the procedure and I hope that the College will allow the debate on it as soon as possible because every day is very important, to burden cigarettes, as one of the luxury goods, with one brand per box and thus ensure somewhere near 500 million marks, which would be minimum for agriculture to begin to get market status. One example, here, just today I had one call from a agricultural producer who has 15 acres of orchards, who has a duty in commercial banks somewhere around a million marks and has property of 4-5 million marks that is mortgaged to him, commercial banks no longer want to monitor this activity because it is unprofitable for these terms of the financial crisis. Six months he was in the development bank procedure to get a loan, but unfortunately, after six months and she concluded that at this point, it was risky for her to place the funds there. And now, with the property of a very large one, created by a generation of his family through several knees, it's been brought to total bankruptcy because commercial banks will activate mortgages, collect their assets, destroy it or sell it for indemnity, and thus disappear one successful production. And now this is just one example, and about all producers are in a similar situation. With good faith that they would have the support of the state, they entered production, and then that support was not adequate and now, most of them, are in front of bankruptcy. I think all these indicators suggest that we really do something concrete in the area of protection and encouragement. And I hope that, here, in the next period, we will adopt this Law amending the Consumers Act, and that we will make one joint team to re-adopt some protection law and ensure this activity a perspective in the coming period in order to preserve production to pre-accession EU funds, when we will be able to withdraw more significant funds from the EU, and then, when we become a member, to be one of the countries that will withdraw more funds from the European budget, to be a major food producer and not have a deficit in food production, but a surplus, because objectively we have resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29627	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29628	Mr. Chairman. It is clear to me that formally-legal this is something that we need to adopt as a report, but I thought that we would understand and the principle of delivering this report is not usual, in accordance with, and it is not how it should be. We do not have an opinion on this report by the Council of Ministers of BiH, it has only considered. I'd like to ask someone, if someone would answer me, what they've concluded on the review - whether this report is good or not, is this something that needs to be instructive, like a script for some students, or if this is a collection of statistics, or if this report shows how we can improve agriculture. And here it is said that this is a report in the area of agriculture for BiH, and the law has been passed and it is otherwise called. And she could have made a report based on what the member of 64 is, I mean, it's not 64th, some member, it doesn't matter now, now I'm going to find, this law said to deliver this report with some kind of measure proposal, etc. However, here the commission took on all the burden, as far as I can see, and it was down there, I purposely just before and read the Commission's position, she found it, here, now I'm going to tell you, so, the member is 23. The law on which we should receive the report, the Commission said – after the debate, concluded that the report contains transparent and concise data, possibly transparent and... and the characteristics of agricultural production and food industry in the areas of the dairy, fisheries and forestry industry; the structure of the trade in BiH, agricultural and food products, certain policies, and credit and the structure of incentives in the agriculture sector. This is what the Commission concluded, they were probably professional to conclude, they probably all read this, but they couldn't conclude otherwise without the position of the competent ministry, i.e., without the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH who didn't say one word – people, this report is, as far as the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent ministry are concerned, good and we suggest that you adopt it. And it was still necessary to make some suggestions that through the adoption of this report there was an improvement in this matter that we are talking about today, because this is a public document, a collection of some statistics on what was going on in the area of agriculture last year, how many fairs were held, etc., by which acts were carried out and by which laws, but we did not seem to have achieved the right goal. I just wanted to say that, that we haven't achieved the right goal, and we're not going to achieve it if I just adopt this report, which is basically done with these elements that I'm talking about, it's not bad and it's supposed to be supported, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29629	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29630	Well, the replica refers to the fact that for the first time, we have received this report on the Commission, and then all MPs in this House. It hasn't been that practice so far. And if there were any reports, they only went to the ministry-the Council of Ministers. When we received this report on the Commission, of course we tried and gave him enormous attention and expressed, I must say, the satisfaction of having this report. He's who he is, there's nothing we can change about him. He just took pictures of what was going on. So we can't add or take anything away from him. Is now some branch well covered, is this good, is it not, whether the failures were made, whether there was something more to be done, these are other issues, but on the Commission we were unique to support this report and propose to the PSBiH House of Representatives to adopt it for two reasons. I was already talking about it -- that we had it before us for the first time, and the second is that it is the basis for improving and improving all segments in this sector of agriculture that we have been fighting since the beginning of the mandate, whether through the CEFTA Act, protecting domestic production, improving this or that. Here are the least important fairs. Fairs are presentations, but they're not organized to introduce people there, they're agricultural production and we have something to show the world. And I've just been following a few fairs and I've been satisfied with the response of people who are interested in it, first those who produce, well, of course, those who live on it, and, of course, end-users, including us legislators. So what's good and commendable is that for the first time, I repeat, we had this material and now we all have it. I'm not saying it couldn't be done anymore, not on the report, it was the easiest thing to do here, but here are the exact details of what was going on. And I say, I repeat, they are the starting points for improving those lines, or those sectors in agriculture, or branches, which we have problems with today, whether it's only exports or imports, or domestic production, or capacity utilisation, and the whole sector, and the segment that processes this report. So our intensities at the Commission were to give him full support because after this report, we will now be able to announce, which is encouraging, that from this ministry, which we may have had the most remarks in the past, has already been announced by several laws waiting for us by the end of the year. First, a very important law, with which we fought in the beginning and never again discussed it, about tariffs, and it will solve many things and a whole series of laws and sublegal acts that will arise after this report. So I suggest the PSBiH House of Representatives accepts it, because we can't change it, what it is, but we will also express our satisfaction to the agriculture sector within this...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29631	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29632	Aborted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29633	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Jerko Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29634	Here, I want to contribute a little bit to maybe clarify this situation. It is evident that this report is clearly and precisely telling us about the disaster in agriculture and that the BiH Council of Ministers at the moment felt that nothing should be done in this report, but only to report this home and that the House assesses whether it should be done or not. And now I'm just going to take a few more data to confirm that. So we imported 25,000 tonnes of apples to BiH last year, and we have the potential to export apples. We've imported 6773 tonnes of grapes, we have the potential to be huge grape exporters. We imported 3,664 tonnes of peaches, imported 5,708 tons of potatoes, the potential for being exporters. We've imported 14-430 tons of tomatoes. The report is pedantic, excellent, the one who worked it should be commended, adopted and accepted that we have learned about the disaster in agriculture, about the import of something we can produce in enormous quantities and do so. Now, it's our responsibility, if we say so – OK, we've given up a branch called agriculture, it's not interested in us, we're committed to the car industry, to the computer industry, we're going to build planes, and on that we're going to base our development, or we're going to alertly look at this as we say, here, in the next month, two days, by the end of the year, that we actually have to do something about it. We also adopted some conclusions at the last session, obliged the council to do something, to say in the next two months – no, no, agriculture is our strategic branch because we have natural resources, we have people who can do it. Here with very small investments we can run the whole production, but in order for that to happen, we need to create conditions for it to be born. Because now there are such conditions that, besides dumped prices, goods from imports (cannot be created). A man who has 15 acres of orchards has to cut his own because he can't repay the loan war, and we're going to increase the import of apples from 25,000 tons to 26 and cover the duties of the state, citizens. So we're going straight to debt slavery. So that's a familiar direction just isn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29635	Thank you. We're moving on to discussions and discussions. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29636	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right now, I don't agree with those who say this is a good report. First because this isn't a report. So this is information, and it's not even information from agriculture, or information about the situation in agriculture, but a review of the data that the Ministry collected from those it asked for. If I were to write seminar work now in high school, I would write this kind of seminar paper, where I would write out all the data that I could collect on the Internet, in different information there, etc., I would collect and write this report. I'd call it, though, information, I wouldn't dare call it a report, because the report means a lot more. Now, everything I've been meaning to say makes no sense if there's no minister here today. But please, I'm only going to read two preface sentences and that's what I'm going to end up with, and I really don't want to go in there with data that clearly shows that in 2008 compared to 2007, it's catastrophic. It can be seen from all the indicators that are given here. It says so in its foreword – there is a need for us to be more imaginative, proactive and skilled in formulating and implementing policies. The sector's competition is growing from day to day, imports are growing, causing domestic production to suffer, and the creator's response... policy needs to be more effective policy coordination, coordination, guidance and ultimately greater efficiency and transparency in the use of public funds in support of the sector. The next sentence says this way – I hope this report will contribute to a better dialogue of all those who have an impact on the development of agriculture and rural areas in order to further strengthen the necessary, underlining, institutional framework. Be careful, as if the minister is not a minister, but someone who looks at this thing on the side, finds that those who work in agriculture need to be more imaginative, as he said here, more proactive and skilled in the formulation of policies, as if he were not the Agriculture Act in charge of that coordination and its ministry. In order to finally, of course, say that the necessary institutional framework should be strengthened as if he were not in charge of it, at the very least. But here, there's no man here, it's not correct in this way to discuss. I had a lot to ask, because I have to be honest that at the end of this report, the least that was expected from each of these areas is a review of the measures in order to stop everything that was wrong. Whether it stops at this level, where possible, means, in accordance with the law, and we know it's not much possible, either, means that the review of the measures has been given to those who are competent, as has been given these indicators, so that we also show them here in a picturesque way that we can see what's waiting for us in 2010. Here, in 2009, we see what's waiting for us, we see that it's worse than in 2008, the question is what's waiting for us in 2010. But let me tell you, I can't accept this as a report. I'm surprised, I must be honest, that this is how our commission wrote a report discussing this collection of papers here. And what I, in the end, can accept is that the report is picturesque. In fact, there is also a picture of the minister there in the preface, so it's a very picturesque report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29637	Thank you. It would be very helpful for those who propose that in writing... this report be translated into information and return to the BiH Council of Ministers for proposals and measures. Please write conclusions in that direction, because you're going to be very helpful in this way in the direction that we're going towards the end of this agenda. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29638	Well, here, since I'm a member of this committee and I can't listen to these discussions that speak and bring the Commission into a negative context, like, well, we haven't even read it, and especially that we've made some constructive proposals in terms of improvement(?) the conditions in the area of agriculture. On the other hand, I listen to the same speakers that castrated the Agriculture Act when we brought it into this home, which had just given full authority to the competent minister and ministry so that it could possibly participate in policymaking and policy implementation that would be created. Today, this ministry has the authority to gather information and to realize that the situation is what it is. For this reason, such an approach is unacceptable in general, and here, and according to the colleagues in the Commission who discussed this report. Of course this report is not what we want, because there are no proposals for measures. What can the competent ministry possibly bring as a proposal for a measure? Nothing. It can only determine what entity ministries bring as a proposal for improvement measures in this area. I agree with those who criticise this report in the sense that this is more of a report on external trade in agriculture. E, there, possibly, could be made an observation to this competent Commission. Therefore, gentlemen, you have had the opportunity to make the Agriculture Act the way we should and to empower the competent ministry and to make it responsible, as well as the wine, rakia laws, etc., which are, in a way, indirectly related to this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29639	Thank you. Replicate reply, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29640	Well, you see, I guess a man can't criticize anyone here without coming back to him right away. Look, look at our commission's report, when you read our commission's report, I was talking about the commission's relationship, not about the minister, in the context of the replica, I'm now talking to my colleague Mehmedović. So, if the Commission has now found itself in this story where I have expressed wonder that the Commission has written such a report, so, if nothing else, the Commission had to realise that the Council of Ministers of BiH has not considered the report, that the Council of Ministers of BiH has no proposals on the basis of the reports. It is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here, if he's not the minister in charge, then you, gentlemen of the Commission, were in charge of writing it. Secondly, I must tell you, my colleague, that I am reading the reports, and this report here, and not only this one but every other one, it is not true that there is no minister's jurisdiction. That's not true. The Agriculture and Rural Development Act has competences that could be used here. Don't say the minister can't speak his mind about an area. Maybe he can't, and perhaps not, borrow an entity government, but don't say the minister can't express his opinion that by subsidising that amount and that amount at entity level, agricultural production has increased by so much and so much, and imports have decreased by so much and so much. Are you saying he doesn't have that mandate? So I can't agree that this is the result of the mutilation of the law. Of course, you, a colleague, tried to turn the other way, tried to get out of it what suits you at this point. Here, you and, say, I don't know, your political option. And I wasn't speaking from that position, but I was speaking from the position of the information that we received, which our commission, allow, has been very casually processed. I could go on, but I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29641	Thank you. All of this can be concluded and we can return to the Commission, if necessary, and everything else. Please read the first sentence – the BiH Council of Ministers discussed the report at its 94th session, held on 16.7. That is how it was written and it was held at a meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers. So, the BiH Council of Ministers discussed the report. Dear Ambassador Željko Kuzmanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29642	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm the same member of this committee and I even participated in the debate when it was the report on agriculture and I really have to admit that I don't see what's controversial about this report. It's been a long time since I've seen a more analytical, more transparent, more concise report than this. If anyone's minded that this is understandable and a small child, I'm happy to read it to my son. As for the measures and proposals to continue the development of agriculture in this country, it is known that, under the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, this represents only a framework that regulates the area of agriculture. All measures are in the jurisdiction of the entity ministries. So, as far as the agriculture sector is concerned, this report has completed its competence in this regard, and I really don't see why further discussion is taking place on this issue. As far as the Commission is concerned, this report is a positive and concluded story about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29643	Discussion, honourable Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29644	I thank you, Chairman. Here, today, we have, indeed, an extensive material to discuss the situation, i.e., reports from the area of agriculture. And what I expected, and it would probably remove many of the dilemmas and ambiguities here, is that our minister, next to the picture he put here, showed up and explained to us in the shortest lines what is written here and especially what is not here, and that is a proposal for measures to improve this state. If I were to mention only one segment, a lot of questions would still be here if the minister were present. (If under theme 5), under rural development, it is concluded that, in addition to the IPA component, pre-accession aid means what importance it gives to rural development is that this is a special component for pre-accession assistance. And we have in the text, it's written, among other things, to help candidate countries prepare rural development programmes. I'd like to hear from the minister if we have... BiH prepared programmes for Component 5. – rural development of BiH's pre-accession assistance. The next thing you know, in this segment itself – rural development, is that BiH does not have a strategy that sets out a whole framework, objectives and approach for rural development, there is no policy or legal regulation that sets out different regional development objectives. And besides, six things that do not exist, the sixth does not exist – an adequate state framework for more efficient use of international assistance through coordination, integration and programming. In addition to this segment, for each segment here, there would indeed be a lot of questions to be instructed to the Minister – in which way, what is not contained in the text here, and that we could be able to accept or not accept this report, to give greater... our conscience, to give an assessment of this report. However, we are not in a position because the minister is gone and I hope that for the 2009 Agriculture Status Report, the situation will have to be raised directly by the Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29645	I would like to inform the MPs that Mr Dušan Nešković is here. He is an assistant minister – the Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Development Sector. All the questions you have regarding this report, please ask Mr nešković, and if he finds it appropriate, he will come forward to answer the questions he can answer. Therefore, I think it is unnecessary for the minister to be called because we have an expert man to explain it. Dear Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović, replica. Did you want a replica? No, I don't. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29646	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in relation to previous discussions, whether this is a report or information, I must say that, getting this as a report, I am very pleased that I have received some information on BiH, its potential and its potential. And secondly, I received answers to our weakest point -- there is no answer in which BiH will approach, I would say, the EU in agricultural negotiations, in the area of agriculture. I mean, that's basically two questions that were said here. However, when you look at the report, you will also get answers where BiH could go. I'm going to say right away, what you said is a disaster, grains are reduced by 17,000 hectares, vegetables are reduced by 2,000 hectares, industrial plants are reduced by as much as 3,000 hectares, but you have 545, or 50% of the total surface area, processing area, 50% of the unprocessed land, unprocessed land. Now, that's the potential we could talk about. And, on the other hand, I would like to point out that the issue of agricultural protection, this shows that it is not in, I would say, increased customs duties, for me, but in the incentive measures that this country should give to agriculture. To potentiate an increase in land processing which is now 50% unprocessed and thus, by its production, in fact, it affects the reduction of imports, and thus to increase exports. If such a policy were to be drawn, and it seems to me that here the minister, in his report, said what should be, but, as you can see, we couldn't expect a different report from what is the ministry's jurisdiction. I think it would be good for this to serve as a basis for considering the report to be made by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so that, based on these parameters that we now have, precisely, decidently mentioned here, we can next year... the policy of how BiH should enter the EU-based talks... If the commitment of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers is that agriculture is our resource that can pull forward. If that's not there, then we'll just get reports, figure out that the situation is getting worse and trying, I'd say, by measures that are palitarian, customs rates or something like that, affect something to survive. What has been done so far, which has no objective opportunity to survive unless the total amount of agriculture is seen through something called the concept of development, the concept of BiH's entry into the EU, using funds to develop agriculture and ultimately a policy that would contribute to our people's more interested in the country being processed. I think, with all the measures that will be proposed here, this report or information, however you like, it says here that this report, the information, the information, the report...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29647	Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29648	...that it can be adopted, but as a basis that we would have a well-developed policy for the next year to develop agriculture, encouraging measures or a decision to have no further demand in this area, but to move on. I think there's a lot of good data here. I don't mind having fairs, but I'm very glad to see how many chambers there are and it would be good for these chambers to get these materials and try to realize these conclusions that the minister wrote here, which is that they should create a policy that could, here, also be BiH's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29649	Replica, honourable Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29650	Well, here, in fact, the replica is not for anyone, but for all of us, one of my little visions. I don't want to argue, but I'll just say it for a second. So this report is quite accurate, however, it may not be complete. It is not complete in terms, if someone expected that we have here guidelines for the development of agriculture or strategy, etc., but it is a matter of some other document, and this document bears the title only that it is a report. So it is not and has no ambition to talk about where and in which direction agriculture should develop in BiH. It was heard here, too, in discussions by some of my colleagues that agriculture must be a strategic branch for BiH's development. I wouldn't agree with that. We seek and want to be in the company of EU countries. And in the EU countries, which have incomparably greater agricultural potentials, in almost none of them, agriculture is recognised as a strategic development branch... So in none of those countries that have 20 times, and I don't know how many times the potential in agriculture, nowhere is the higher percentage, the share of agriculture, of 5% of GDP, anywhere, not so much. It's usually between 1 and 3, in underdeveloped to 5, and around employment it goes to 5. So let's be realistic when we talk about agriculture, its significance and its potential and what agriculture can mean in some of the best, let's say, the treatment by the authorities, what agriculture can be in this country. But I also agree with all those who said the situation was bad. It is bad, but that's why we need to talk about the state of agriculture... this to be the basis, this report, and that we also have a strategy to develop agriculture or at least strategic directions or guidelines, etc.. The strategy is difficult to do because we have here, it would mean working together, and entity governments or ministries and ministries, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, but that is not impossible either. But if we're going to talk about the development of agriculture, we should, then, have one such document as a background and this report, too, as a basis for such a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29651	Thank you. Mr. Okolić, you have another replica, but here, anyway, three minutes in, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29652	No, I don't need three, but you asked for a written conclusion, I'm afraid we're going to fly this assembly to the end soon, and we may not be able to copy it. So, the conclusion on the discussion, without discussion: - We suggest that the 2008 Agriculture Report for BiH return to the Council of Ministers for reviewing the situation in the area of agriculture and concrete proposals for improving the situation. I think this conclusion is correct and that it got out of my and other discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29653	Thank you. We have a replica, an esteemed one, no replicas. Dear Ambassador Jerko Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29654	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29655	All I'm asking is for you to get involved. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29656	When I spoke agriculture as a strategic branch, I didn't think it was the only strategic branch and I thought it should be a strategic branch similar to that of the strategic branch in EU countries. It does not participate significantly in the GDP due to strong industry in EU countries, but when we look at the structure of the European budget, then we see that agriculture is 43%. Now, if there were 43% of the agricultural budget in BiH, as we'll call it, it's irrelevant, it's not a strategic branch, let it have that kind of money, it's not a problem. In this context, it should be viewed as a significant item in the sector. And this conclusion, as suggested, I would suggest to the Proposer that some time limit be set for measures, so that it is not unlimited. The deadline for measures, that it may be put in place for about 60 days, not to be an unlimited time limit for measures, if it is not a problem for the conclusion to be completed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29657	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29658	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29659	Wait a minute, please, we've got more signed up for the replicas. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29660	The Honorable Chairman. Replication to Mr. Okolić's presentation. Mr. Okolić, I might be happy if it were the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers in that variant that you suggest a conclusion. But he's not enforceable. I do not want here, as chairman of this commission and, indeed, with the extraordinary co-operation of my colleagues, to look for some alibi for us, but what was our responsibility to return it to the Council of Ministers of BiH, to make them do something if they are not competent. You have one report, and you can say about it for or against, which has given countless of some, I'd say, not countless, there's an exact number, data on this and those sectors. Whether they're good or not, that's another thing. But the Commission could not, although it had been before, but there was no debate on the subject, that we should force the Council of Ministers of BiH or, possibly, the Ministry that made this report to do something that is not their jurisdiction. We can't change any numbers here. This is one way or another. Similarly to what I was saying earlier, I did not say a catastrophic report, they audited, that I am giving Mr Bećirović an alibi that he, as an opposition, is attacking us, the parliamentary majority, but that one day someone from the parliamentary majority, as well as here, is saying, the situation is not good, let's work to improve. Because, Mr. Okolić, yours cannot pass the conclusion for the reason that no one is competent to carry it out. So, it's quite clear, I'd like maybe that's the case, but it's not. The BiH Council of Ministers, we can pay him back a hundred times, can't order the entity's agriculture ministry to single out, instead of six in the RS, for subsidies 12%, 15%, 150%, it's impossible, it's impossible, there's no money, there's no opportunity, each found within its budget and how much debt is covered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29661	Thank you. We have another replica, Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29662	Well, here, I apologize to everyone, but I have to say, anyway, that, however, there are no statements here that actually don't have a cover. So, for example, Mr. Lijanović, you were talking about the EU agriculture budget, how much did you say it was?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29663	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29664	No, no, how much did you say was in the amount?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29665	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29666	100 billion euros.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29667	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29668	50 billion, yes. Do you know what the total budget of the Union's countries is?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29669	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29670	Please, I'd let... let us try that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29671	Let me just say this, so somewhere around, actually, a few thousand billion euros, let's say about four thousand billion euros, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29672	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29673	No, no, yes, however, little remains how much this share is too large in relation to the total budget. It is not but relatively modest, but again significant because the EU really invests a lot of funds and keeps up the development of agriculture, because it is a strategic priority that food production is safe, and yet later it has some other positive repercussions, that it feels safe, otherwise general, to all people, when they do not have at least enough food and everything, etc. So it is, but it is not such a large percentage of the total income available to the EU in terms of the EU budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29674	Wait a minute, Mr. Džaferović, did you answer the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29675	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. When I look at this report in the field of agriculture for BiH for 2008 and all these discussions are heard, is it not, then, I find one irresistible conclusion, that all the expensive work we are doing today at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, related to this area, is not enough. I understand all those who say that the areas that are mentioned here are agriculture, in the broadest sense of the word, processed, that these are the competences of entities, cantons, Brcko District, so other levels of government and there's nothing controversial about it. However, the state cannot be excluded from all of this. And I don't think there's anyone in this Parliament who would rule out a state that should either establish some kind of policy or bring some policy into line or encourage some policy, if nothing at least because we intend to become EU members. And this area, at least as regulated by the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, as otherwise other EU-related documents will regulate, oblige the BiH state to join the area. What I particularly wanted to say here is that the trends in the area of agriculture, according to this report, which is the only thing we can safely conclude, in 2008 in many areas compared to 2007 are more unfavourable and the parameters are in decline. And it's a very worrying fact. You look, I don't know if I'm going to make a mistake right now, but, let's say, you'll see that the figures in 2008 are falling compared to 2007, and that should be a signal for us here. And that's the only thing I see in this report that needs to worry us all. That's why I think this agenda item today at the House of Representatives is not properly treated. And I suggest, this is one good basis, that the minister, the very minister, come to Parliament here and address us here, if it takes one whole day to deal with this, this is our future here. As much as we can produce, we'll be as rich and we'll have so much. We should rely on what Bog has given us in this land and use it to the maximum. I suggest, therefore, that we take this off the agenda today, i.e., not at all, but call on the minister, to make a real presentation of the situation here in the area of agriculture, according to this report, and that we see what conclusions, as a state parliament, will be adopted, not running away at all from just doing our part of the job, not taking any part of the job to any other level of government in BiH. This would be one, I'd say, first more serious debate on agriculture. And it seems to me that this report provides such a basis and provides a basis for this kind of treatment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29676	Thank you. Assistant Minister, Mr Dušan Nešković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29677	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very glad it was such an interesting and very intense discussion about the area of agriculture, the area where I work and which I definitely love most. This is a report in the area of agriculture, and it aims to show the state of agriculture. This report has a desire to launch a discussion, to discuss agriculture and to help it. This isn't the first report, we made our first report for 2006. The European Commission has helped us this nicely... and everything else. It is the first report we have made, where we have taken over the principles, how the reporting methods, how the European Commission does it, to take over practice as is the practice in the European Commission, in all 27 Member States, that they regularly make a report in the field of agriculture, each on a regular basis, about their own country. The next report we made for 2007, on our spending, on our resources, to tell you about our mind, I am proud, too, of this report and these two reports have been adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Last year, this house adopted the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, which, as it is, in Article 23, makes a commitment to making up such a report and says – the ministry makes up annual reports on the situation in BiH's agriculture, food and rural development sector for the previous year, it is made up, the report is based on previously submitted reports prepared by the entity's and Brcko District BiH authorities. The ministry, the third item, submits a report to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration no later than 30 May of the current year, and the BiH Council of Ministers sends it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for adoption, no later than 30 June of the current year. So this is something that's legally binding and that's been taken over by law. So we came to have a 2008 report that definitely shows the state as it is. It's not nice, it's not good, the well-respected MP Mr. Lijanović explained some things, that's it, that's what we have. This report has been prepared in collaboration with entities, with Brcko District and as such has been forwarded and has come to you with a desire, indeed, to initiate a good debate, a good discussion, and to give some guidance to those institutions that are competent in this country for the creation of agricultural policies. This is a set of official data, it's very important that every piece of information here is official. It is zvaničan from the BiH Statistics Agency, statistical entity offices, chambers of commerce, but at the same time also ministries that are responsible for politics. So when we talk about this, that's what we have in the country, and what we want to achieve in the country depends on what kind of policy we're going to make. What I can also tell you is that based on this report, which you have in front of you here, is a policy analysis within this ministry, it is already over, you could have it here today, where there is more detailed discussion and analysis of policies that are at various levels in this country, in various jurisdictions of various ministries, and on this basis, a proposal for measures that should be done in this country at different levels in order for the system of agriculture to move forward. What I can tell you right now, I've already prepared it, let your assembly commission ask me, and we have one conclusion from the agriculture commission, to deliver this to them. I've already got it ready, it'll be on the agenda whenever you want. What is very important, I would like to tell you this opportunity that there are, let's say, two only things that can help develop BiH agriculture. It is an increased investment in agriculture, however, we know that quite a budget limitation at all levels, and the RS stands out 6%, the Federation 3% of the budget, the Brcko District, is slightly better. But it is shown to be a limit on the amount of funds that can be given in agriculture. But there's another thing, these funds can be used better, and it's also processed in this material, as well as in how. The second may also be equally important, and perhaps more importantly, building institutions in the state, primarily state institutions capable of controlling their market and creating preconditions, i.e. certain documents, certificates and the rest needed for export and no third. I would also like to suggest that such a report, with this cross-section of the state, be adopted in this home, and the obligation, as it is given through the commission, that this ministry make up an analysis, is made up, the proposal for measures, is made up. So I can suggest at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29678	Thank you. I hope it's much clearer and we're done discussing this agenda point. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Information on measures adopted to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis in BiH – Council of Ministers material, issue: 01-50-3-1004/09 of 24.8.2009 The BiH Council of Ministers provided the information in 24.8.2009. At the 60th session of the House, it was concluded that the discussion would be delayed until the next session so that a more comprehensive debate could be held. Here, we came, practically, in a similar situation as last time. But I'm opening a debate on information. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29680	I answer first for one business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29682	Of course, I'll suggest, and if my colleagues will respect that, that's another question. I think this is, and I believe others think so, one of the most important topics in this country. Well, it should be the same for the state parliament. However, in this half-empty hall, currently in the BiH Parliament, without the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, without the finance minister and other ministers, I think this point and this topic is, in some ways, downgraded. So my proposal, if the other colleagues agree, is to point out the importance of this topic, to reach one conclusion as Home, regardless of how we have once expanded this topic, to make this the first item of the agenda of the next session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. No matter which laws and points came and that at the beginning of this point, first of all, we hear a serious opening statement from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Finance Ministers. Of course, it would be good if we had the strength to invite entity premieres to this session, perhaps cantonal, but to put aside, I think it makes sense to hear the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the finance minister and then open a serious debate on this serious issue. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-30-0.u29683	Thank you. We, as you know, did the same thing last time, and we can, in accordance with Article 68, paragraph 2, in the event of the motionor's absence from the House's session, the House may decide to lead the debate without the promoter's presence. Well, I, in order to respect the Rules of Procedure, am voting whether or not to continue the debate, although the motionary is not there and I am asking the House to prepare for the vote. We're voting on continuing the debate without a proposal. This was a motion to vote. So far, no one's made a suggestion. For seven against six, there are no abstentions. We're postponing the agenda for the next session when the motionary will be sought. [[Common discussion]] Do you want us to repeat this vote? Seven, six, no entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
