ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27619	Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 57th session of the BiH House of Representatives. I once again welcome you all together and realize that we currently have 33 MPs in the room. Of course, it is expected that some other MPs would join us, which is what happens, the standard delay. The absence from today's session – please take your seats and allow us to work – so the absence from today's session was justified by Mr Jovan Todorović, Momčilo Novaković and Savo Erić. As far as the agenda is concerned, we had here, relative to that call you received, two changes. As point 10 is included: A statement on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH, Proposers: Ekrem Ajanović, Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić, in the first reading. So it's about a plea. We did so at the request and insistence of the promoter. Under point 16, we included the appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. Point 6, if you have noticed, has been downloaded: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on the Roads of BiH, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, in a second reading, and for the reason that the committee responsible called its meeting only yesterday at 12 p.m. So it's about reviewing the law in phase two, in the second commission phase. The report was due at the latest Monday so that lawmakers could use the right to submit amendments at least 24 hours before the beginning of the session. The timing of holding this commission session was so natural that it made this impossible and we chose the College to respect the Rules of Procedure. And of course, I'm taking the opportunity to invite the presidents of the committee to hold committee meetings at the latest Monday, so the week in which the House of Representatives' session takes place, at the latest, at the latest, is held at the latest, especially when it comes to reviewing the law in the second reading. Of course, five, six, seven, ten days before, when the conditions are met. Here, that's what I had as notes on the agenda. And now I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Sadik Ahmetović. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27620	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that today's session, immediately after parliamentary issues, be placed on the agenda of the agenda: 'The Day of Remembrance in all of BiH on the victims of genocide committed in Srebrenica'. Reason: On the basis of various initiatives of the Srebrenica and Zepa Mothers Association, and on the occasion of the March 11th 2009, on the day of memory of the victims of the Srebrenica genocide, I submit an initiative to officially declare this date throughout BiH on the Day of Remembrance of the 1995 genocide victims. I remind all of us again that in his resolution, adopted on 15 January 2009, the European Parliament declared this day the Day of Remembrance of the victims of genocide committed in Srebrenica in 1995 and that July 11th will be marked in all EU countries. Facing the past is our future, and I believe that our common obligation, or obligation of all levels of government in BiH, is to pay tribute in this way to all the victims of Srebrenica who are undoubtedly the biggest victims of the past war. I also believe that my initiative contributes to strengthening tolerance, confronts all of us with the past in order to build our common future in BiH. The time is passing and the only thing we can do for our victims is to ensure our dignity right now and to support the survivors, and in order to share co-existence and tolerance among the peoples living in BiH. Given that such initiatives also require a certain kind of material, I have here attached this Resolution of the European Parliament on Srebrenica, and if we were to collect or attach all the materials that we have on Srebrenica at this point, that would be one huge, huge amount of material. Therefore, I ask you, therefore, that this country, BiH, has the strength to have the strength to adopt today and to adopt this proposal and adopt that July 11th be the Day of Remembrance in all of BiH on the victims of genocide. Montenegro will do the same these days. I believe this Parliament will do so today or sometime later, better today than later. So I ask you to gather your political courage, to vote to get this into the agenda, to vote and to adopt what I have proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27621	Jerko Ivanković, debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27622	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would suggest that, after the point proposed by counterpart Ahmetović, we put the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production on the agenda. You are all aware that the BiH Constitutional Court has adopted a provisional measure that temporarily puts the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production, within the CEFTA, outside the legal system 3 BiH. If you look at the reasoning of the Constitutional Court that you have received with the proposal of this law, I will only briefly read the details: 'From this we can see that we need to do something to stop the adverse consequences that will arise by putting out of force the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement.'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27623	Excuse me, is that your intention to open a debate on the Constitutional Court's decision?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27624	No, just an explanation for including the agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27625	I beg you, here's what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27626	I'll do it for a while. So, without denying any right to the Constitutional Court to do its job, I would just like to point out that the Constitutional Court on page 7 under point 20 said: 'Finally esteeming the arguments for and against the provisional measure, not prejudicing the measure of the request, the Constitutional Court considers that even if the constitutional assessment requirement is rejected, the adverse consequences that would potentially arise by adopting a temporary measure, with the aspect of BiH's interest, are easier than those that would result in the assumption that the contested law would be declared unconstitutional. This is due to the temporary measure in which the application of the contested law is suspended only temporarily, and if this requirement is metrically rejected, the provisional measure will be put out of force and domestic production will enjoy protection in a manner regulated by the law in question. The Constitutional Court therefore considers that, with respect to the global interests of BiH as well as the signatories of the international dispute and the countries that are seeking to join the EU, the adoption of the provisional measure has much more justification." So, we have the fact that this law is already in effect for seven days, that the harmful consequences for BiH from the aspect of the law's entry into force have no effect, but that it is, in fact, beneficial, by putting a temporary measure into office, i.e. The out-of-force law will have inconceivable consequences for BiH producers and also for BiH's budgets, as those revenues are not expected to be collected. So, this law would aim to have a temporary character of duration, means to cover that space for the duration of the constitutional court's provisional measure, because in case we don't adopt one such law, this temporary measure may take another year and the damages that will occur are inconceivable and irreparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27627	Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to propose a new item of the agenda, which would read: 'A conclusion on the annulment of the House of Representatives' conclusion from the 52nd session on the establishment of a special investigation committee'. 4 At the 52nd session of our home, held on 29 April 2009, a conclusion was reached on the establishment of a Special Investigation Commission, with the task and objective of collecting and delivering all reports containing information on all the cars purchased by the Council of Ministers Secretariat from 15 April 2008 to 15 April 2009, on the exact prices of car purchases, the way of purchase and justification of purchased cars. Therefore, since this conclusion was reached on 29 April 2009, it was given a period of 45 days for the Commission to do this job and deliver the report to the House. However, it happened that here, meaning a month and a half is due, today it is two and a half months as the Commission has been appointed, it has tried to come together on two occasions, and it has not succeeded and it has failed because the MPs were not present in the Commission, there has been no quorum. And, since the promoter, who proposed this conclusion on the formation of this Special Investigation Commission, proposed a conclusion and such a decision from, in my deep conviction, the daily reasons and at these two sessions that we were present, it was evident that this was an unusual rush and the need to do things as soon as possible... some things had been done, however, this commission had not been formed, had not been established, and since we had been asked at the last session, so on Friday when we tried to meet and establish, a already done Rules of Procedure for which this commission should operate, although this commission had not been even established, in which it was requested that this investigation committee form a special administrative group at the head of the secretary to do administrative work, to form specific investigative teams which would receive specific tasks from the activities that should be carried out in the context of the Commission's approval of the additional work. But that's not the only reason. The reason for this proposal for this agenda point is that we have state institutions to deal with, above all, with SIPA. And, according to my information, SIPA has already come to the Council of Ministers Secretariat, carried out certain controls and if we believe, and I can still believe in the state institutions and their professionalism to do what they do, so if we trust and rely on the state institutions, then we do not need to form such committees, because other MPs will be able to seek at least five or seven new investigative committees that will be doing the jobs that SiPA or some other state institutions in BiH. So, I suggest the agenda point by which we cancel this conclusion and disband this commission for a simple reason that after two and a half months, it has actuated itself by not establishing itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27629	Please be kind enough to deliver this formula point to me. Here, I have, unfortunately, and... a debate on the agenda of replicas. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27630	The Honorable Chairman, given that I have been directly appointed, I am obliged to say the following in the shortest possible way. 5 As a promoter of the formation of the Investigation Commission, I must say that it is not formed for daily political reasons but for deep principled reasons. And I believe, because it was formed for these reasons, that it also received most of the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When it comes to this second part of the exhibition, I just want to take the opportunity to thank my colleague Marković for drawing attention to this newly formed Commission of Investigation and all that she said in support of this investigation's need to function as soon as possible, so I thank her once again that this issue has been further updated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27631	Let's move on with the agenda debate. Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27632	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm proposing a new agenda item... that would be called "The Controversy of Non-Constitution of Authority in Mostar City." Explanation: Since Chapter XIX is. The BiH Electoral Law, members of the same chapter, applies to the elections in the city of Mostar and related to the members of the 42nd to 46th. The Statute of the City of Mostar, and that until today, the city government has not been fully established, and that the councilors of the 14th time could not agree on the election of mayors, and that Mostar had not adopted the budget and that budget beneficiaries had not been paid for the third month, and that in a strike that threatens to culminate in social unrest of broader proportions, the debate on this subject is necessary in order for the conclusions, which could result from the debate, to be amended by the Election Law, and in part of the transitional and final provisions, where punishment and sanctions would be provided or a repeat of the electoral process, unless the local authorities were established within a rational time period of up to two months from the end of the election and the announcement of the official election results. Also, a constitutional provision that regulates the indirect choice of mayors could be the subject of a debate by colleagues in the Federation Parliament. And this home could send a message that it would be necessary to access it anytime soon. I remind you that the Peace Implementation Council, so-called PIC, in his latest communique, warned of this problem, saying: 'The Peace Implementation Council's Management Board considers it unacceptable that the Mostar City Council did not appoint a mayor even eight months after the election. The board of directors called on the High Representative to take further steps to facilitate the process of electing the new mayor of Mostar."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27633	I'm sorry, I didn't realize if you had a formula of the agenda point? I'd like you to deliver. So, Slavko Jovičić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27634	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers and others from the Council of Ministers, gentlemen from NGOs and media and guests, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, today I just want to start the initiative and I do not want to put it on the agenda but that the College has it in mind and that it is mandatory to put it on the agenda for the next session, and that is: When the most important institutions of this country will respond to people who have been removed and given it in court as an example just to keep in mind what the initiative will look like. 37 police officers from the RS were removed, in court they were found not guilty, 19 returned to work. Who will make up for these people for three years of mental suffering, pain, all pay for the pay and other receipts they were supposed to receive? In addition to this latest situation, in the last session of Parliament, I said, I am looking for Mr Jovičić, who, by the circumstances, is my surname, that the competent institutions, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice were concerned with those actions? If it is, they'll process it immediately. Of course, here I'm going to go with the logic of the one that's right and support that SDA Club initiative that's already asked seven or eight times to solve the Alagić issue. Here, let his question be resolved. To get rid of, so the question of everyone, that we don't get into a situation of decertified police officers that no one else is responsible for, that no one ever mentions anywhere anymore. People are left without bread or guilt or longer. When will this country take responsibility and competent institutions to take care of their citizens. So, I'm just putting it to you as an initiative now, not asking today to be placed on the agenda, but to have it as an initiative for the next one, and with it, of course, you'll get all the materials you need to have at the regular session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27635	Here, you said yourself you'd deliver. Then we'll follow the Rules of Procedure. I have more applications for the debate on the agenda of Lazar Prodanović. Here you go, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27636	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr. Ministers and others, on behalf of the club, I propose that today be placed on the agenda... the possibility of including in the same debate on the non-implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision in the Federation of BiH concerning the flag and coat of arms of the Federation of BiH. Namely, the BiH Constitutional Court, deciding in case U4/04, found that the flag and coat of arms of the Federation did not reflect the equality of all constituent peoples and the existing coat of arms and flags, i.e. parts of the laws that regulate them were put out of force. By decision, the BiH Constitutional Court ordered the Federation of BiH to bring its symbols into line with the BiH Constitution within six months. As we know, in the current situation, the Federation of BiH uses the same symbols of the BiH state, which is contrary to the principles, so both in BiH and the Federation of BiH. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27637	So, once again, I ask that all those who have proposed new points of the agenda, in order to make a statement, deliver the texts, formulate those points of the agenda. Here, there's Mr. Živković. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27638	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27639	It's a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27640	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to propose a agenda point: 'Information on the realisation of the conclusions of the House of Representatives adopted in the adoption of the Budget, and on the permanent resolution of the problems of the BiH institutions and the even distribution of them in both entities'. Let me remind you of the chronology. At the 7th session of the House of Representatives, 12. 4. In 2007, he adopted the conclusion: "The House of Representatives requires that the Council of Ministers of BiH, together with the 2006 Budget Implementation Report, prepare and submit a plan to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for rationalisation and reduction of the cost of renting business premises for the work of BiH institutions." At a session of three. 12. In 2008, we also adopted the conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers to deliver, in addition to the Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations 2009 a programme of activities to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions, and then we are 20. 2. In 2009, they also adopted the conclusion: "It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to draw up a plan and programme of activities to resolve the accommodation of BiH institutions in order to reduce the cost of the lease." My fellow Members and fellow Members, these are three conclusions of the same name or identical that the Council of Ministers has not wanted to meet today. This information exists in the Council of Ministers and there is no problem in putting it as the 18th item of the agenda behind the report. Let me remind you that according to certain information from BiH, BiH spends 7 million KM each year on the lease of institutions, with the inequality of these institutions and their schedule in entities drastic, where only four institutions in eastern Sarajevo, to mention: Foreign Affairs Service, the Institute of Standardisation, the Agency for Market Control of BiH and the Regional Office of the Missing Persons Institute, and 59 institutions in the town of Sarajevo itself where about 5.5 million are spent on the lease of these premises, here, where Kanton Sarajevo and the City of Sarajevo themselves did not find it appropriate to offer accommodation for these institutions, although they know that another 39,000 square meters are missing for those institutions. And it is not recognised, on the other hand, the interest and desire of the mayor of eastern Sarajevo who gives the place to create institutions that would be joint institutions and to save money in this way, and not in the way that the Council of Ministers came with the Law on Salaries where all the employees in the institutions are reduced in this way of pay. I also want to say that there is obviously room in Sarajevo despite parliaments to make hypermarkets but there are no 8 places to build joint institutions and rent, which are 7 million, here go in private pockets in the City of Sarajevo, here, still filling private pockets for people in Sarajevo. Therefore, I ask that this point be placed as the 18th item of the agenda, let's see a little bit about this savings in the town of Sarajevo itself and how much the city of Sarajevo is benefiting because the joint institutions are all located in Sarajevo. At the same time, since we have materials for all of these points, I assume the club president is going to ask for a break, to deliver those materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27641	Of course, I've already warned several times all those who suggest, here are five or six proposals, to formulate the agenda points so MPs can plead. Correction of the wrong allegation, not common institutions, institutions are BiH but here. Let's go to the replicas. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You take what I wanted to say to me every time. Looks like we're thinking straight. So, counterpart Živković mentioned or used the term of the joint institution on several occasions. I don't know what that means, so I'd like him to explain where he's drawing that term from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27643	Jozo Križanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want something more business intervention. ...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27645	I thought it was a replica, Jozo. I'm sorry, so business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27646	If this intervention of mine is not respected, then I will also formulate a new agenda. You see, we've had so far, it seems, like, 10 or 10 new points of the agenda. By strictly looking, businessly, these two are also questionable for which we have received material related to the Srebrenica Initiatives and from colleagues Ivanković. You see, I think it would be good, colleagues, to really make these proposals that have been formulated as new points of the agenda to be translated into parliamentary issues, 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27647	A little louder, Jozo, we don't hear anything. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27648	Because we really don't have a chance to track what's going on here, what's proposed. We don't have any papers. And this really doesn't lead to anything. Today, we are going to waste time proposing a agenda item for which no written material has ever been familiar with MPs. And I'm saying, if this is really how it goes on, I'm going to formulate and I... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27649	Here he is, are you suggesting that I don't give my word to anyone anymore? Replica, Željko Kuzmanović. Jozo, there has been no session that the SDP Club did not have a number of initiatives, proposals, and a little patience for others in the agenda debate. Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27650	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to replicate my colleague Križanović. I am surprised that was not the last time he was in the mood when counterpart Bećirović proposed the initiative in the same way, that is, a new agenda point. Don't be, they should be principled.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27651	May I have your attention, please? So, you'll all have a chance to talk, patience, time is ahead of us today and tomorrow, we'll work, it's not a problem. Let's take it in a row. He applied for the discussion, i.e. the debate on the agenda, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27652	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions for the College. Given that I was expecting two points of the agenda today, I don't know the reasons, I think that, in my opinion, all the conditions have been fulfilled, the SNSD Club proposed last time today to discuss the effects of the delegated powers and I think that all the conditions for this point to be on the agenda today. I don't know what reason she didn't come here. Also, I expected, truth unverified information, that today will be the shift or resignation of Minister Sadović on the agenda. Since we are under a positive pressure to carry out our obligations from this Roadmap to liberalise the visa regime, at the same time at the head of this entire operation we have a minister who has been denied and his own party and all other parties and the international community and everyone else, and it is not realistic to expect that we are doing a job that goes to a dead end. If there's no first man, if we have chaos in the Ministry, it's not realistic to expect and tell the public that we're doing something concrete and smart, if there's no one out there who's concerned with 10 right now to sort of complete it and do it right. We didn't interfere here, we expected to have this party's position today that this man is leaving in one way, not to say, civilized way, but we have this situation now: we've all given up, he's gone, we don't have any initiative, we don't have a solution, because I expected you to have and that you're going to tell us that you have some way out of this situation and that we're simply not having a debate. It's not right for people to say that we're going to be making some moves here today when we've blocked the whole process. And when what we've been saying for months is that there's a problem in that man, now everyone agrees with us that there's a problem in that man, but now we don't have a solution to how to get rid of a man. I expected someone to come out today, here's not to comment on it, that they'll culturally come out, and it's known how they handle it, either by personal leave, or otherwise, but we should tell people that we're in a dead end right now. That it's not worth it, all of us. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So please, that's why I'm asking. Here, I allow myself to have no answer that someone is going to say something right now that I don't know and I'm going to take back what I said. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27655	You'll get the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27656	...only if you have something new, but I think you need to find a way out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27657	You'll get the answer. As regards the examination of the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the conclusion of the initiative to consider the effects etc., this material went towards the Constitutional Legal Commission and it has not yet been completed, so we would put it on the agenda. The moment we get this report from the Commission, we'll put it on the agenda. As far as... other things, as far as I know, we have the Minister of Security, it is Mr Sadović, until otherwise decided by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. So let's move on, replicas. 11 Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27658	Well, here's, I mean, the touching concern of the SNSD people for the state of the Federation, for the state of the U.S.A., is, uh, I'm glad they are. What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mostar did,... and I personally support Mr. Živković's initiative to get some of the institutions thrown there, because every day then several thousand Sarajlija will move to Lukavica and thus integrate the country again, yes. As for Mininster Sadović, this thing is not over yet, because he is doing better. You see, he's had success these days... with Interpol and this problem "Volunjska". So there's still a chance he'll stay where he is. But here, you leave it to the SDA and let him handle it himself with his minister. Thank you. And one more thing, I suggest you give up all of these initiatives for today, so that we focus on the question of Srebrenica, on Mr Sadik Ahmetović's initiative, because it far exceeds, the importance of this tragedy and the importance of us marking it, these other topics, will dissipate the matter. Therefore, I suggest you give up these initiatives and Mr Živković and all of you from the SNSD for the next session, and today we focus on this tragedy and on the marking of this tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27660	So, here's two more signed up for the replica. I'd really like to try to get back to the agenda debate. I have no objection, nor do any of us prevent any of us from submitting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure the initiative, and give it to you, and let us plead. But here, so I've got four people reported for replication. Let's take it in a row. Nice to Kalabić you. There were some changes, people were signing up, they were erasing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27661	Well, you see, Mr. Chairman, I'm still expecting answers. It's not enough that you said about both my questions. Since you're saying we have a minister, then here I'm telling you that we have all the conditions met, so we're going to go out, and we're going to tell the people, so we have a minister, we have the conditions, honey and milk flow. And if you agree with this formulation, we'll say it. The whole country's talking that... 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27662	I wasn't talking about honey. I was just saying the fact that we have a minister right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27663	Well, the fact is, the president of the SDA said he wasn't here. It's a clear political decision, he said what a man did and we have one reality here, and the fact is that we don't have as well the conditions that we need to do today, we still don't have that either. We can say that we have fulfilled, here, by our own terms. I'd like to ask you to understand reality and in a way that we don't behave, because I think this is the height of irresponsibility. If we had that question, everyone knows he's not a minister anymore, everyone knows it, but we can act here now. I could now quote Mr. Tihić about Minister Sadović here, but I would especially like to... insist on his story about Srebrenica. I wish Mr. Tihić had had a political platform on which he'd been building a campaign over the past few months. I think he was talking about the future. He seemed to be saying that some things should be left to some institutions. It seems to me that he told me that some... of the principles and the building of politics on the principle of sacrifice. Those are his words, he said to forget it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27665	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Kalabić, get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27667	So please, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27668	On the agenda, on the agenda, so there's no need to get nervous. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27669	I, Mr Ahmetović, only has an understanding because it comes from the RS. Srebrenica is in the RS and he, I can understand this throw, he has the possibility that the others have no such privilege unlike him that I can... listen to him. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27670	Patience, just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27671	So, I ask you, if you will, we are the topics that we have proposed which are the daily issues, which are the problems that we need to solve; if any other problems want because of their daily political needs to work them out in this daily mud in BiH, be my guest. How come some big subject just remembers when it's down to ratings? How come someone thinks that in this House, like in all parliaments of the world, something can go away when the coalition doesn't agree, when the partner doesn't agree on it, when most people don't agree on it. It should be said here that no one has talked to us about anything, and that means that whoever's proposing doesn't want to go through with what he's proposing, that he wants to use it in the daily political needs, because if he wanted to go through it, he'd talk to those who need to get most of it. He doesn't want to, he needs to tell people clearly, he's just afraid of adoption, so he's gonna run out of material for the next points. I want to say on behalf of the SNSD Club that none of us asked for support for such a thing, nor did he ask us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27672	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27673	Not today, not before, and we're assuming which way it is. But here, let him do it. Please explain for the second point: we have done everything according to the Rules of Procedure that we have a ready debate today for our initiative and I would like to hear the right explanation why today is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27674	Of course, I said, Mr. Kalabić, you don't have to be satisfied with my answer, I've told the facts. So, and your initiative, etc. it has been delivered to the committee responsible by the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, we didn't get an opinion. The moment we win, it'll be on the agenda, the College does. And here we go back, so business intervention, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27675	Mr. Chairman, I was under the impression that we had already adopted the agenda and that we had moved on to these parliamentary issues following these statements by Mr. Kalabić. I would ask you to stick to the agenda and we have an answer to all the questions, I do not want to open a story here that will not be in the interest of the BiH state,... I have opened a story that is in the interest of the BiH state and its citizens. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27676	Of course, I'm really trying to get back on the subject, so to discuss the agenda, and I don't have the opportunity to prevent anyone from proposing new agenda points. You're obviously inspired today. Here's another line, am I right? Azra Hadžiahmetović, is it a replica? I also have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27677	Yes, the chairman, it's all. Here, I don't know how to come otherwise...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27678	Here's Azra Hadžiahmetović everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27679	And the replica and the business and the discussion. Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the College, first of all to congratulate the SNSD Club, six of them are present at the session, we have seven initiatives, so you were really worth it. Probably justifying your lateness this morning, isn't it? Fellow Members of Ahmetović, you suggest we stick to the agenda, and the first one is to propose a revision of the agenda. I don't know what agenda you mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27680	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27681	Yeah, the agenda debate, okay. Dear Chairman, I want this wealth of initiative this morning to suggest that after we get the initiative, you probably anticipate one break. That we all treat these new points of the agenda and that we can agree before we enter into a plea. I personally don't mind that all these points, I really appreciate that it is extremely good and that we are discussing, with the exception of the reserve on the proposal of counterpart Kalabić regarding the Ministerial Council, because I am not sure that this parliament, except by law we know how the Council of Ministers can be changed, we did not get an initiative from the chairman of the Council of Ministers for Reconstruction, and neither did we get a resignation from a member of the Council of Ministers. So I'm not sure we can discuss this legally. What I want to draw particular attention to is the need to get one piece of information before the very statement on the inclusion of agenda points. I think it would be good for all of us. Namely, my colleague Jerka Lijanović's proposal for a new text of the law with an explanation that goes exactly in favour of not putting this item on the agenda, I managed with attention, in this short time, to read the explanation. However, what I would like to draw attention to, I would like to legally clear the state of affairs: would we, by including this item of the agenda today, open a debate on the Constitutional Court's decision or deny even Decision 15 of the Constitutional Court? I'm asking to get a legal opinion on that. We have the Council of Ministers, we have the Ministry of Justice, and so on, somebody give us an answer, because... this proposal is practically initiated by the Constitutional Court Decision. So, in order not to pretend that this parliament is discussing the Constitutional Court's decision or that, eventually, by its decision, it denies this Constitutional Court decision. I would only ask that we get that answer before the final statement on the enlargement of the agenda and my proposal that, before the vote on the extended agenda, provide for a break; if necessary and formally, here I, on behalf of the party's club, will seek a break for consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27682	Well, it's safe that I won't be able to do it, that it'll take me half an hour to add this whole set together, of course, it's still going on. I've got Draga Kalabić and Živković's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27683	I thank the president of the Party for all praises. However, I would like to remind you of a brief mind. I don't want to remind the SDP Club, because they don't need to be discussed, they don't know what it means to create an initiative that makes sense. I'd like to remind those of whom we've appealed last time not to do this on the agenda. You didn't listen, gentlemen, you wanted this day to turn into a debate on the agenda. We have shown as SNSD that there are many important issues in this country that can be put every time as a point of the agenda. We have shown that all problems or most of the problems in the Federation of BiH are with our initiatives that you run away from every day to talk, and you are constantly at the top of your RS language. We have shown how much trouble you have in the City of Sarajevo, on the functioning of joint institutions and not implementing the conclusions of these congregations when it comes to the savings we can make together. So, gentlemen, go back to last session, remember what we talked about and don't accuse us of what you did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27684	I don't know who Mr. Živković was talking to, but we're moving on. Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27685	Mr. Chairman, not to be confused, so I didn't propose, colleague Hadžiahmetović, so I didn't propose a agenda point, I asked the Kolegijum for an explanation for my two questions. So, I, concerning Minister Sadović, didn't suggest, if there is, I asked, is there anything we don't know that can be resolved. I see we have nothing and the chaos continues, it's now as clear as day. 16 Kolega to Ahmetović, I don't think anyone can be challenged, especially the club chief, to plead out new points of the agenda. Clubs and MPs have the right to state their views on points, on reasons for inclusion and non-accounting. They have the right to their stand. I know you've been a colleague of Ahmetović for a long time, you've been working on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, so you've been in that movie, so you're a little bit of a mustache on this, because, say, you've never had such ideas there, you've been part of the ruling majority where you've never thought of these things, you've never talked about these questions. But I don't mind you doing it here today, just respect the Rules of Procedure that I have the right to comment on the club's position on your proposal. He's legitimate and I can tell about the reasons for listing or non-incorporation. I think we worked better when the two of us were down in the coalition, in the ruling majority, we didn't have these problems, and here it's my call to sort of agree in the pauses of this thing and that this works in a different way, because I think this is going in the direction that it doesn't work. You guys pulled the cat by the tail today, and you're off to keep this from working today. If you want us all to get into that movie, here we go, and this isn't going to work today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27686	I hope we all stay alive. Let's move on to the replicas as it goes. Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27687	Thank you. Perhaps the replica would have been too high if it had been clearer for me from the presentation of fellow Živković to whom, whom he spoke earlier when he spoke, did he speak to me, because he mentioned me in that context. Well, let me get this straight. First of all, I congratulated you on your activities today and I must say that praise is really worth almost every initiative you have, and we don't often have a case for you to advocate strengthening state institutions, etc. I mean, we don't have that kind of initiative just every day from the SNSD, as well as we don't even have a debate on the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on flag and coat of arms, except I don't know why you didn't include the RS here. Also, this 'Decision of the House of Representatives' Conclusion on the establishment of a Special Investigation Commission', I personally think it's really worth the attention that we're talking about today. Why isn't this commission in place, why, is it necessary to make such a proposal a conclusion or, say, about the City of Mostar? Indeed, it is commendable for your commitment to the whole of BiH. I must say, however, to my colleague Živković, if you really thought about me, you thought about my discussion earlier in the sense that someone here was not good, so you initiated such an initiative today, if you were thinking about the club SBiH, then you went forward, maybe you were thinking about someone else, but please address who you were thinking about. That's one thing. Secondly, the chairman, we can still have some initiatives here, I suggest that we put all these initiatives with possibly this argument that we will get from the Ministry of Justice regarding the Constitutional Court Decision, or the Bill's proposal, on the agenda today, because this is indeed a historic event. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27688	I'd do it all, but I've got another dozen reported, and you're all saying it's not okay, but you keep signing up. We're going in a row, so the replicas. Halid the Genjac. Don't let anyone miss by accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27689	Thank you. Therefore, Mr. Živković, with his move, has shown about one tendency that issues of fundamental importance at the level of the BiH state are related to entity problems. It's one, it's just that it's shown, we can also accept that way and that way talk and treat the problem, but I think we should still deal with what really matters. But what I want for more principled reasons is to replicate to Mr. Kalabić. In his discussion, he said, "We have a delay in visa liberalisation, and the team is headed by Mr Sadović." Two or three lies. So visa liberalisation is a process led by an inter-resor team headed by Mr. Rizvo, and the whole process is run by the Council of Ministers, whose head we know who is chairman of the Council of Ministers. The fact that this shows that a large number of conditions in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport, such as the Law on International Legal Assistance, is the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters from the Ministry of Transport, which remains the only major problem and is not solved. On the other hand, all the problems, almost all the problems from the Ministry of Security, have been solved, including a huge number of strategies, laws, etc. And most of the questions were from the Department of Security. So we have a delay in meeting the requirements for visa liberalisation but if we want to talk about where the address, where that point is, it is the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. However, it will not help us to personalise the problem, because otherwise on the issue of personalisation of guilt and with Mr. Sadović, it is just a problem that there is a lot of talk and very little argument of guilt. We will make a better and best contribution if we make an action plan to meet the remaining requirements for visa liberalisation, and we as the Parliamentary Assembly can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27690	Thank you. Fellow Members and fellow Members, in accordance with Article 15(3). I'm setting a half-hour break for the Rules of Procedure. 18 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27691	Please take your seats to keep working. So, first of all, did the break affect anyone giving up on the replica, on the discussion, or was it an inspiration for more agenda proposals? I don't see anyone answering. So, do some people who want to and discuss and replicate can they unite that? I now have the registered Denis Bećirović for both discussion and replication. Can this be about one expense, Denisa, to be a discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27692	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27693	Business intervention, Slavko Jovičić. I'm sorry, Denise, let's hear it, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27694	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't see how we're going to begin Parliament's official work today. That is why, in accordance with Article 65. I propose that all initiatives to include new points in the agenda, which has already been agreed on by the College, be withdrawn today. There's time to discuss them, because if we go like this, first of all, I see how much worse and, of course, you're absolutely right to give everyone a chance, but how we're going to start with a regular agenda, which is already in line, if we're going to go at all. So, I don't want the situation to get complicated at all and I don't see a way out if this kind of initiative, and really here, believe me, I always come out honestly, and I even have problems sometimes with my colleagues at the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27695	It'll be fine, Slavko, a little patience, it'll be...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27696	Please, if you don't accept it, then let me take the opportunity to further complicate the situation, and it's not complicated, this should be resolved in some normal procedure, but if you don't give up on the agenda, and there are already seven or eight, then normally I'll take the opportunity to suggest and include a new agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27697	Slavko, is this a business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27698	I say, please colleagues, if they don't give up, it will be, it'll be later. So please withdraw all agenda points and move on to a harmonised agenda. _________(?) Are you blackmailing me? 19 I'm not blackmailing, I'm suggesting. What a blackmail, which I can blackmail.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27700	It's okay, it's okay. You heard Mr. Jovičić's suggestion. After the break, in a way, I appealed to give up replicas, further discussions, further waste of time. We have six proposals to include in the agenda. We'll get to the bottom of this. We have experience, it's not the first time we seem to ever start. We'll start, we'll be patient, we'll start. So, Denise, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27701	Thank you. I do not think that anyone who today thought that by launching a series of initiatives would be able to cloud or put into the shadows an objectively one state-of-the-art issue, a political highway issue that was raised before this parliament, and that is the issue of July 11th and the memory of the genocide in Srebrenica. I also remind you, and what no one has said so far, we have already discussed this issue here in the House of Representatives in some way this year. I was one of the motions proposed by this parliament to accept the European Parliament resolution adopted on 14 and 15 January this year. In that resolution, it stands, among other things. And I think that this is not just a political parliamentary issue today, this is primarily a moral issue for this Parliament and this country, and I think that we are all on trial today, and that this should not be on the agenda today and that we, too, plead as the European Parliament has said. If we are not able to do so, we should seriously consider turning from this Parliament to the Council of Europe and the European Parliament and other institutions and asking them for help. I think it is unacceptable that BiH did not support the European Parliament's resolution first, and this is a question of whether we will follow certain civilization values and messages. I think that, therefore, I accept this initiative to enter the agenda, but it might be even better if we adopted today's Resolution in the original form adopted by the European Parliament. There is not a single man, nor one MP in this House who has arguments that he could bring down the views contained in that resolution, because this European Parliament resolution, number one, says: "The European Parliament remembers and honors all the victims of cruelty during the war in the former Yugoslavia"... I'm stressing 'all the victims'. Second position: "The European Parliament honours the anniversary of the Srebrenica-Potočari-Potocari genocide, supporting the European Parliament's recognition of July 11th as the dan of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide throughout the EU and urges all Western Balkan countries to do the same." Dear colleagues, apart from this resolution, which has been delivered to us, there is a resolution that was adopted on 1 and 2 April 2009, which also reminds us of the obligation to remain awake in the fight against non-democratic, xenophobic, authoritarian ideas and tendencies. And that resolution says there's no reconciliation without memory. If today and today we refuse this, so for the second time, not for the first time in this House, I am asking the question publicly but it is a question for the whole of Europe: "What is going on in this Parliament and what is going on in this country?" This Parliament, or House of Representatives 20, has not even managed to vote to mark 'Holocaust Memorial Day'. Is there any state, any parliament in Europe that has allowed it or that would do it? Here, today we have a case for the second time: "The Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide." Not to remind myself that an initiative has fallen in this House saying that we should ban certain fascist movements, etc., but that we are not opening that topic. I don't think we should ignore the decisions of the European Parliament, I don't think we should follow the policy that blocks the resolutions of the European Parliament and I from fellow Živković who directly called the SDP Club and the SDP I don't expect him to understand the SDP, but I call on him to understand and make sense of the importance of European Parliament's decisions, because these messages are long-term messages and talk about the future of these spaces and in the future, and not just about our past.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27702	Let's do replicas. I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27703	I don't like to rephrase, but when I saw the initiatives that I initially welcomed that delegates from the RS are interested in problems in the Federation, I really welcome it, it's a vision of precisely the work of this parliament, an expression of wish that, as Mr. Živković said, did not work in Parliament, as Mr. Kalabić confirmed it, then I just wanted to say that it would be good today if Kalabić, as last time, had performed and asked the question of the security of citizens in RS for the murder of the Justice Ministry in Banja Luka. He didn't do it, and for those reasons I don't think he's principled in his story, and that's why I just want to say one thing, to suggest one more time, and you're here to decide: if we need to make a statement about initiatives and if we adopt them to work for this Parliament to go to a permanent session, we are 95% professionals here, we can mean without those non-professionals to work. Therefore, gentlemen, since the initiatives are some good, and especially what Mr. Denis Bećirović said, I think that she should come, and the others should go to a permanent session, and then come from a permanent session to discuss all the problems in BiH. I especially want to say that I'm glad we got initiatives from the RS to solve the Tuzla-Sarajevo road. I really welcome it, and I thank my fellow Parliamentarian for that question, and I thank you for all the questions you have raised here. And, Mr. Živković, or whoever asked the question of signs, in the Federation there are no more signs of the Federation but there are national signs. Perhaps the better question is, does the Federation have the right to hold symbols at the federal level of state symbols? That's the question. And what's not, that's their problem over there, let them solve it, but I think that's the question we should... and that's why, if we take these initiatives, we go to a permanent session and until we finish this debate so we don't break up with these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27704	Here, in the meantime, we move on with the replicas. Sadik Ahmetović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27705	I'm sorry to have to replicate, really, but Mr. Kalabić brought up some things that don't stand, referring to the time when we sat together in the National Assembly of the RS, but then he was really an opposition but he was in another political party and was fiercely critical of SDS and SNSD politics at the time, and he probably had amnesia or had a deliberate experience. For the tenth anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, I proposed the same resolution to the National Assembly of the RS. I hope there is therefore an archive and record and it can be checked, you can either bring it to you yourself or I will bring you to one of these sessions and give it to you myself. So, when it comes to bargaining and if anyone asked you, I don't think there's a need because this is not a political issue, this is just one moral, humanistic, however you want, question... which is called by the European Parliament resolution which calls on the countries of the Western Balkans to do the same. The resolution honours all victims of cruelty, urging all Western Balkan countries to do the same. The importance of reconciliation as part of the European integration process is stressed in order to start a peaceful and honest life in the Western Balkans. So I think there might be a lot more to talk about, but I don't think there's a need and I didn't suggest this... to get any popularity, Mr. Kalabić. So here's my popularity or my unpopularity I'm going to get through a political party, and here you have the need to change the party to be popular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27706	Replica, Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica refers to the presentation of colleagues from Živković. In fact, several times already from this pay phone, Collegija Živković very roughly, unargumentedly shares SDP labels as a whole. Recently, he said from this same pay phone that he would never support anything coming from the SDP in the future, no matter what. I would like to stress that this relationship neither I nor the SDP has any relation to any club or to any individual in this house. I, first of all, wanted to say this because we expect these remarks and labels to be from Mr. Živković in the future and that with this announcement today, I would say that Mr. Živković's actions will be regularly ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27708	Let's move on. Sadik Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27709	Thank you. Mine will be more supportive of Mr. Živković than a replica of his proposal to cost the lease and accommodation of state institutions, and he said it was about 7 million, and a small correction. 22 You know that for 2008 there were 16 million rent costs in Budget, and this year there are 33 million rental costs in Budget and the Finance and Budget Commission has just proposed and adopted the conclusion and this Parliament that those excess revenues of 100 million go to capital expenditure and that facilities are being made here and in Banja Luka and Mostar that these rental costs are zero. That's what Minister Vrankić suggested here. It is more worthwhile for the state, if it is to be in debt, to raise credit and in five years it will be done by the institutions – it will repay the loan, each year it pays more than 30 million, there is the DKP. My proposal is, I'm offering a solution to adopt, brother, the State Property Act, solve all the problems, then there'll be zero lease costs, there's so much state property. Let's adopt that law, return to the state state, place all the institutions, and give that surplus to use at lower levels. I think it's our obligation too, it's in accordance with the Constitution and the Sucession Agreement. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27710	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27711	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27712	Wait a minute, wait a minute, don't be mad, Mr. Bešlagić. Well, I'll check it out. Well, if you say he can't, he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27713	It was a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27714	You had two replicas, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27715	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27716	Well, here, sign up for the discussion in a row. Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27717	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I have reduced the list of discussions, moved on to replication. It's a replica to Mr. Kuzmanović. Here, I mean, his initiative and the explanation he gave here, I just want to get to know him that Mr. High Representative is in Mostar today and right after the decision of the PIC solves this problem so that we don't have the need here today to discuss the subject but I would suggest Mr. Kuzmanović to support the process of returning Srbin to Hercegovac-23 Neretva canton and thus help the process of integration and strengthening the state of BiH and I think it would be a greater contribution than in this way for Bošnjak and Hrvat in Mostar to solve the problem. It's better the way it is the Bosnian ambience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27718	Before I give my word to Remzija Kadrić, can you please refrain from the replica more? Here's what's going on here and let's get this over with. We all said everything we had. Remzija Kadrić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27719	I thank you, Chairman. I'm glad that my discussion will be the final discussion of the agenda and then I'm convinced there won't be a replica. So, I appreciate that all these initiatives, many initiatives to supplement the agenda, should be accepted except for the request of a respected representative, Lijanović, to propose a 'Law on the Protection of Domestic Production' under emergency procedure. So this initiative should be rejected, and these other initiatives, most of these initiatives that we have received in writing, should be accepted, especially here without any further explanation of this request, the initiative of the honourable MP Ahmetović when it comes to this resolution. But as part of this, indeed because of the public and because of all the correctness, it should be mentioned on the same time that our MP, Adem Huskić, has sent these initiatives around this resolution to many addresses, that I am not talking about which, many parliaments, the initiative on this resolution, and thanks to this initiative, many parliaments will also bring their resolution on Srebrenica. This well-intentioned suggestion, the oral suggestion of the esteemed MP Kalabić, that the College... determines about Sadović, so... you will find it very difficult to determine about this request because an additional little confusion has been created when it comes to the position of the president of the SDA Club in Parliament about Sadović's work. He said a man works well and I agree with that... some views of his party that there's something wrong. However, it would do you good to get the position of the House of Peoples' Colleges before, so they would, there, have such a little clearer situation when it comes to Sadović, at least most of them in the College of the House of Peoples – Tihić and Dušanka Majkić have this unique attitude around Sadović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27720	I really don't know, Remzija, where did you get the idea that the College was dealing with Sadovic. It's not on my mind, nor am I in Sadović's business, nor will I be in business. So don't worry about us, we don't deal with Sadović. So, drago Kalabić, discussion. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27721	Mr. Chairman, let me just explain what Mr. Kadrić asked for, please, on behalf of the club. I didn't ask for the Kolegijum, and please, so I didn't ask for the Kolegijum to plead on Sadović. I was just asking if there was any information we didn't know about, and I didn't ask you to get involved in it at all. So, my colleague Kadrić is obviously using this confusion in the SDA in his own way, and it's obvious that the Party for BiH is entering into some new speed, it's obvious. But, my Bog, in politics it's so that it's always going from one to the other, and it's the way it is. Mr. Chairman, the SNSD Club is looking for a break, so after this debate, a half-hour break, and we're open and for the proposal of colleague Azra means that we put all of this on the agenda today and according to our principle that we always advocated that on the agenda, for the sake of efficiency, we agree on the Kolegijum and that no one violates it as regularly as the SDA does; we are also the principle that all these points go in line with the Rules of Procedure for the next or the next sittings. So we're open to both principles when it comes to all these proposals on the agenda. We're not talking about ineffectiveness, but knowing us as we are, if someone thinks that anything that's on the agenda today can be solved effectively today, we're here and we're going to pull our story on ineffectiveness. So, we have shown if anyone wants to mean this way to direct Parliament's work, that we have this situation where we are. And finally, what my colleague Bešlagić mentioned, what happened in Banja Luka, a tragic event everyone knows about, which you can, I don't have the right in the name of the Prosecutor's Office to qualify him as one case in personal relations, means where there are no consequences for the citizens, you want to compare when in Tuzla the police disband and when two gangs get rid of machine guns, you want to compare with the event in Banja Luka where a man for family reasons, means for family reasons and everything is known. It's been known in Tuzla that two hours were fired with automatic weapons bursts and that dozens of people on two sides were involved and neither one of them was known against anyone. That's incomparable, Mr. Bešlagić. And I agree, so please, if you will, I agree that both events: about the event from Banja Luka, I can give you all the details meaning to apologize to everyone and it's no longer interesting to anyone because it's a matter solved, a tragic thing, and to God, about this second event, I think you can write a Erp from Tuzla about what was happening. And I agree to put both events... Here, I'll tell you about the event from Banja Luka, but I'd like to ask you to tell me who the leader is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27722	It's all in our country, Drago, it's all in our country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27723	I agree. So, I don't want to be imputed to be the one to run away from this debate. So, about this event, if there's an interest, I can tell the whole story, but who led the gang in one block there, who in the other, shot for two hours, where the police were and the rest, if, I'm in the mood to listen to it. So don't make pandas on things that don't stand, and we're ready to talk about it. 25 When it comes to fellow Ahmetović, and I will end it, Mr Ahmetović, I have never been a member of the SDS and never cooperated with them on any matter. So, one. You mentioned SDS and SNSD because they were never together.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27724	Let's get back to the subject, Drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27725	Please, the man was talking and I'm going to end it, so. And, Mr Ahmetović, is it moral or immoral that if you suggested that you continued to rule peacefully with us afterwards, this shows how you are treating this problem today. The order for which you suggested it, it was there as it was and you continued to rule with us as if nothing had happened, as you will now. That's why I asked you not to use this event that way. I think that's more important than day-to-day politics.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27726	Mr. Šakota, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27727	Please, and calling on Resolution, I would ask you, you who are meeting with Mr. Kacina, to have a little bit of business with Slovenia and Croatia. Tell a man to see if he's got that kind of power. Not to hold us under such a press and such lobbying, and the two countries came to the brink of war by pawning Mr. Kacin. So when he's so powerful and there's a recommendation for Europe to get rid of these things, so tell the man to have some fun with his country, say a little that some resolutions need to be respected there. In order for Slovenia to respect something, some demands. However, when you cannot solve problems in your backyard, it is best to walk here in the Balkans, open some old stories for good fees – so we know what Mr. Kacina is doing and it is time to tell him that too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27728	So here I have some more replicas and discussions. I expected this to end. Just one moment, Mr. Bešlagić. So, to those who give me signs that I interrupt people, to take away words, etc., I answer to work on the Rules of Procedure. And those who can't listen, get out, here come the people and it's okay. Let's move on. Selim Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27729	Well, look, I mean, this is a typical example of Mr. Kalabić's misinformation. Last time he said they got into a fight there, and they're getting 6,000 marks of pay. They're not receiving six, they're receiving three grand. So disinformation. Don't throw out passwords like that to the public. The second thing, when it comes to the Rom case and the rest in the city center, the shooting, first of all, was not two hours. It's supposed to be a magazine of ammo. It's supposed to be a bunch. And thirdly, 26 20 people were arrested and 20 people in the procession of the name and last name. Therefore, it's all there, sir, only you don't read. You read the lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27730	Even some of them called Beriz.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27731	Therefore, it is not called Beriz, perhaps, but it is not Belkić, so I would ask for a second time, Mr Kalabić, when it comes to the Tuzla bar, prepare good information or if you need me to bring it to you. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27732	Let's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27733	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27734	Wait a minute, Mr. Drago, we're done here. Slavko, did you give up? Do you have an initiative on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27735	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27736	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27737	Dear Chairman, since I see that there is no mood to give up the initiative and, of course, everyone's right to propose initiatives but I don't see where we're going, I want to say, not to go today, and will go, the media image, whatever goes, we will be blamed, and immediately you will know, gentlemen, that the resolution of the European Parliament, as stated there's a 'creation and trust', brings the greatest mistrust and the greatest conflicts and misunderstandings that are deepening further. I suggested a few sessions ago that we make the Day of Remembrance so we could go visit Srebrenica. I was there, and I'll go again if I have to get an 11th if I'm invited, but to go to Sijekovac, to go where the Hrvat died, and that's us, a parliamentary delegation to see us together, you didn't want to accept. That's why I think the Council of Ministers will announce 11. On a day of mourning, and I'll say hello. But if you followed last year or before, it just shows what kind of country this is: to be in one piece, or less bh. The entity, it doesn't respect that at all. 27 Dear gentlemen, dear colleagues, friends, we cannot forget, regardless of the European Parliament's resolutions and anyone else, the death of Srbin in '92. and '93. In the year 3,500 Srbin died and there are no days left to mark the Srebrenica Municipality, not at the level of the state or the European Parliament resolution. So when you gentlemen won't give up on all sorts of initiatives, and for us it's a very important date in history, because history doesn't start from me and this Parliament, from Dejton, from, I don't know, some events, I'm proposing another agenda point today. In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I submit, of course, the initiative to include the item of the agenda, which is very important to me, which is: 'Returning the memorial plate and concrete footprints of Gavril Princip to the site of the Sarajevo assassination'. Laugh all you want, it's a historical fact that was. [[Common discussion]] I'm glad you know the Rules of Procedure, and I don't need to know that much, but, well, you have to put this on. So, it was in effect for 75 years and we were all learning, and no one went to school after Dejton, at least here as far as I can see, that Gavrilo princip (I'm going to list you and the team that was with him, multiethnically) that he wasn't a terrorist as he writes today in all possible media federal, but that he was the hero who was the first to stop to defend his country from the very ones who occupied this country. So that I would no longer improvise, but an explanation very clearly. Given the 95th anniversary of the Sarajevo assassination this year, I believe that at the place from which Gavrilo princip shot Prince Francis Ferdinand, he should have re-established the record, with the look and inscription identical to the one that was there, and was destroyed in '92. The year, and it was nice to say, 'From this place on June 28th', here it went June 28th, '1914. in the year Gavrilo Princip, with his shooting, expressed a Franc protest against tyranny and the eternal aspirations of our peoples." You see, then it was taken care of our peoples, and now it's divided here, now there's no more of ours, now there's my, someone else's and other people's people, so then it's been looking for the freedom of our people, and it's going back to the same place as the concrete footprints, it's known what number of shoes he was wearing, and that the rate where they were standing exactly makes a difference there, these historians know it all and everything, and let them return it, and in the place where the princip carried the antenna, and it was visited by thousands of tourists until '92. the years when the feet have been removed and have not been returned to this day. And let me remind you that he was together on the team with Gavril princip... organized by 'Mlada Bosnia' and Ivo Krančević, Muhamed Mehmedbašić, Cvjetko Popović, Mustafa Golubić, Vaso Čubrilović and fought for the liberation of BiH by occupation. Imagine, then they fought for BiH. So, I'm asking that if you're not going to withdraw the initiative that this initiative, and at least there are historical structures here, you don't need any documentation, you don't need an additional one from the Council of Ministers, especially some institutions, it's all clear here. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27739	I'd ask you to deliver it to me. I don't have any more applications for discussion. Azra Hadžiahmetović already had two replicas. Azra, you've had two replicas already.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27740	It may occur that when you qualify my intervention with a replica, but I had more questions about the proposal of my colleague Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27741	So you're applying for a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27742	No, no, just one clarification before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27743	No, it's not a replica. Wait a minute, please. So, when it comes to replicas, the thing is wasted. So, the discussion, like I said to Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27744	... I have six papers in front of me, an initiative. There's four SNSDs out there, and here's the SNSD Club proposal to pull everything back. So, of six initiatives four, otherwise we're discussing this new one. I have previously expressed my view on the initiatives so far, and regarding this new colleague, Jovičić (all we have learned at school), so I suggest we maybe put us or review or put a valuable court of all that we have learned at school, and then we will in turn impress this at the end of the fight for BiH, as your proposal, the struggle for BiH by the occupiers, and put in or such a part of the agenda. And this is about reviewing what we learned at school and restoring some old values, etc., I think it's really worth the attention. I think that's your support initiative. I would add it to the already existing six initiatives, four of which are from your club, so we have seven or five SNSDs. I think it deserves real attention to discuss it, to get into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27745	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27746	Thank you. In fact, we don't mind you putting all your proposals on the initiative and delivering it to us in the way the SNSD Club did. Well, we're not going to challenge the possibility of MPs giving initiatives. I do not want to remind you again of a brief mind, because SDP is not worth reminding that on agenda points after their club president is each time on the extended college they put new agenda points on the agenda even though it is agreed in advance... And that's the X times that happened. That after that they get up this morning and say that we're complicating today's agenda with our initiatives. It's not worth telling people about. When I was talking about that SDP doesn't need any initiative to support itself here, let's say for me, because I know it was SNSD, that was when those initiatives SNSD endured and all the MPs here supported it, only SDP didn't support it, and I said it, and I don't think that it's worth reminding people of.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27747	Followed by Denis Bećirović. So, a short memory, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27748	Mr. Živković, in his old custom, of all problems, is his biggest problem, however, is always SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27749	By the way, your third is a replica, but there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27750	It's not third, it's second to me, and my predecessor was third, by the way. So, Mr. Živković, regardless of this attempt to submit strong initiatives to, I repeat, the main point and the freeway point from the agenda, you have a big problem here. You have a problem because the European Parliament, not this Parliament and not some political party, has adopted a resolution that says, "The E'European Parliament remembers and honors," I stress as it says, "all victims". The European Parliament does not write about Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian, but about all the victims. And we need to find an argument today not to vote for something like that. And secondly, the European Parliament invites you, and all of us, and this country to honor the anniversary of the genocide in Srebrenica. And, you can send as many new initiatives, debates, replicas, etc., today should have morals, first of all, then political forces and vote against these two positions: to honor all the victims in this country and to remember the genocide in Srebrenica that happened as the whole world confessed. I wish there were arguments to bring down these two European Parliament positions, and what you're going to continue to talk about SDP is your problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27751	I have one request, if you have the strength and will, that we lead another hour of replica. Can you keep your lines on the agenda for another hour? So, with all the effort, he can't. The SNSD club asked for a break for half an hour. Right, drago? Here's the time, keep your lines in the hall. 30 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Mr. Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27753	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27754	Please take your seats and allow us to continue our work. Mr. Kalabić speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27755	Thank you. After this break, I'll repeat the SNSD Club's views. As you have seen, we have today proposed a significant number of initiatives that are based on their content: some political character, political and historical character, economic character. From the important issues in the political sense to the important issues in economic terms, such as this for, and ultimately, the economic position that we all talk about these days and some of the issues that have treated repairing our position regarding visa liberalisation and the rest, not to mention, you heard it today. We are pleased that our initiatives have come across and supported, so no one could deny them by the content that they are not significant, that they are not important, although, once again, it is contrary to the principles of working in this Parliament and what we wanted from the SNSD to respect, means that we have one order, that we are agreeing on all these things at the College which is now serving us for such a thing. This kind of work is the fact that we deny the position of the Kolegijum and its efforts to plan the sessions and that in the capacity of full leadership according to some plan, but here is nothing caused, others wanted such a situation and this debate has shown how difficult the topics in BiH are and how much capacity we are not prepared to follow at this time, and they are here at the door and everyone has the right to activate them at any moment, we cannot deny it to anyone, but obviously we see where we are prepared or not to discuss them. And we can't deny any of them, they're all significant. And here, in order to contribute to the planned agenda, the SNSD will today call on the rest of us to withdraw our proposals to the agenda points and to leave them for the next or next session of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the Kolegijum's efforts. It's our call to the others, and if he doesn't normally be heard, we'll run for the next sessions as we announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27756	Well, here, you heard. Any comment? Are there any changes in attitudes? Mr. Ivanković, is this a replica? Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27757	Mr. Kalabić. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27758	There's no replica, Mr. Lijanović. I'm just asking the club presidents if they have any comment. Some suggestions and nothing else have been made here. So, the SDA MPs' club remains with its initiatives. Mr Lijanović, I will inform you that the position of the College is that on your request and the bill of law Parliament is not being declared. The College will not put it on a statement for the reason it appreciates that there is this law which, truth, by the provisional measures of the Constitutional Court is suspended application, and by any procedure on the same issue we would enter constitutional matter and we do not want to do so. So, the College won't put this bill of yours to a plea. Is anyone there? Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27759	Well, here's to the position of the SNSD Club, to only mention that during the debate, the Party for BiH has expressed its readiness to discuss all these initiatives. Indeed, some of them are particularly valuable attention, the more they come and at this point that they are focused on the Federation, perhaps part of it, and that they are focused on state institutions; opening up perhaps some issues from our past that might bring some things to the ground, perhaps even better foundations for a better future, and we appreciate and express our willingness to discuss all initiatives, indeed. I only want to mention on behalf of the Party for BiH Club that for these initiatives, for which we would need some material for discussion, the promoter is obliged to provide us with material for discussion and provision, indeed. So we're ready to discuss all the initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27760	And here, I'll give Jerki Ivanković more opportunity, but this is the position of the College and it won't change, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27761	Dear President, colleagues and fellow envoys, I will only remind myself of article 66, which says: 'In case the proposed amendments to the agenda are and after MPs express their views on this proposal, the House of Votes on any proposed amendment. The vote shall be voted in the order in which the MPs have proposed amendments.' I respect the full position of the College, I would only ask that the House be declared in accordance with Article 66. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27762	Mr. Lijanović, there is no rules of procedure that could have predicted this situation that you've just made. But here, this is the position of the College, and we, until the end of the fate of this Law 32, which is the subject of a constitutionality assessment, have no intention of putting anything in the process of this matter until the Constitutional Court has finally said. Here's Jozo Križanović, Club SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27763	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, when speaking on the agenda in my first report, made an observation in the way I proposed to include the points in today's session agenda, not taking into account that the applicants subsequently delivered written materials and I apologize for such one approach. I would like to say that the SDP Club considers today a good number of initiatives presented and that they deserve to be discussed. We also respect the SNSD's position that these initiatives can wait for the next session or another. However, of all the initiatives proposed today, the SDP Club believes that, given the current situation and the moment in which BiH is located, we should have the strength to hold a debate today on the SDA's initiative regarding Srebrenica. So we can support everything, we can accept and we can give up certain topics here running, but we think today is very relevant and important if we could find this on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27764	Here, I'm closing the debate definitely. And, after three hours, we came into a situation to plead. So, please prepare for the vote. We'll take the turn how the initiatives were coming. So, firstly, we declare the request, or initiative for putting on the agenda today's 57th session of the agenda: Declaration of 11 July On the Day of Remembrance throughout BiH on the victims of genocide committed in Srebrenica in 1995 – Proposer: MP Sadik Ahmetović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 votes "yes" (24 Federation, two RS). We have no entity support from the RS. Unfortunately, Mr. Živković is gone. I'll see in the course of the session if we can get a match. Let's move on. I can't get a line-up, there's no third member of the college, I guess you know that. Let's move on. Milica Marković's initiative: Conclusion on the repeal of the House of Representatives' Conclusion. 33 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All initiatives have been withdrawn. So, practically, as far as the initiative is concerned, I and others have no agreement other than these SNSDs, and we have practically made a statement on all the initiatives, by trying to get a consensus on Parliamentarian Sadik Ahmetović's initiative to include in the agenda of this session about the memory of the genocide in Srebrenica. Now let's figure out what agenda we've established for today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27767	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club in the House of Representatives, I would like to convey the position of the SDP Club that we believe that when it comes to marking the anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide and not accepting it in the agenda, I think those who did not today support it have sent an inappropriate, immoral, possibly quite certainly scandalous message. This vote is an insult to all victims in BiH and the region, and this is below every tolerance threshold and below the bottom line of acceptable behaviour.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27768	What am I in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27769	Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27770	What did I do wrong in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27771	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27772	Can I finish? So scary messages have been sent, and we from the SDP Club, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are looking for a 30-minute break in which we want to take a stand as a club on this emerging situation and we also expect the College to meet in the next 30 minutes and take a stand on what Mr Belkić is now talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27773	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27774	Stop him, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27775	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27776	Kalabić, you can't talk. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27777	You're looking for a break, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27778	We're looking for a 30-minute break to hear the College's position, and then we're classified as SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27779	Break 30 minutes. Please, the break will take 45 minutes, and I have a 15-minute obligation here to greet some OSCE people. So 45 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Here, we have a quorum and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't go, the rest of us will join us. I'm convinced that these breaks were also used for lunch so I have no intention of taking any more breaks, we'll work on the continuity. So, I'll let you know that we haven't done the alignment yet, business is up to three days. Unfortunately, we still haven't done the alignment. And I suggest we start with the agenda. Let's go point one. Ad. 1. Journal of the 56th Session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27783	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I received one answer to the question I asked at the 52nd session, and it was a request for the delivery of the Public Investment Programme to BiH. Since it is a legal obligation for the Council of Ministers to make a 'Programme of Public Investment for Development 2009'. In 2011, unfortunately, here he was, the finance minister, now he's gone, I wanted him to hear it because of the public to say... it was already half in BiH, and there was no Public Investment Programme. He's a liability, and I don't know why all those international credit agreements, etc. We give consent when BiH institutions do not have the document. And that's what I wanted to comment on, so I'm still staying with my question, asking for the delivery of this program when the Council of Ministers adopts it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27784	Selim Bešlagić, a comment on the response received.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27785	I've got an answer to the question about the Food Quality Agency. And according to the answer, the Agency itself is working in favour of the BiH deficit, in other words, lobbying for imports. Since 2005 it has been stagnating for four years with the adoption of the rules. And right now I have to say that with this kind of answer I'm looking for who will be responsible for this condition. Secondly, what will the Ministry and the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH do to improve this situation? And third, I request the names of all the members of the Management Board, the Director of the Agency and the Advisory Council, the Scientific Council and the Scientific Committee, and the answer to the question whether they have received compensation in this time. I think that's a very important question, because here, if you take only that on the waters of every year almost imports 100 million, that's what it says, I'd say, about the incorrect relationship and the unhappiness of these agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27786	Mr. Bešlagić, just deliver it. So let's continue to comment on the answers received. Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27787	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, after repeating the same question twice, I received an answer to the question: "What will the Council of Ministers do to finally resolve the damage to the Starovlah family's request by diplomatic means between BiH and NATO forces?" The answer I got was, it's mild to say, unsatisfactory and it shows all our infirmities in relations and relations towards NATO. And even a question of commitment and ability can be asked to one... important humanitarian question, one injustice solved. In response to the Council of Ministers signed or delivered by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs 38, it is found that there was one meeting early this year and that NATO refused to pay compensation, because the damage, as it stands here, I quote, is 'the result of NATO's operational activities and that, as such, it cannot be considered by the Commission for damage claims or arbitration court'. I would like to remind you, given that this is not such a minor issue, which is why I will take a little of your attention, that on the basis of the Appendix to the Agreement between BiH and NATO signed in Dayton, disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the current agreement will be resolved by diplomatic means between BiH and NATO, rather than unilateral decisions, as accepted by the ministry. Diplomatic assets include agreement, compromise and the use of undeniable relevant facts. What is indisputable is that in the case of Starovlah's overrun... the military force, that the Starovlas are bluntly hard objects of injury, based on several findings and opinions of medical experts both from Sarajevo and from the Tuzla Military Academy, that no documentation was found in the Parochial House of Starovllah, which allegedly led to military operational action, that no one gave them any resistance, that no proceedings against them were initiated or anything like that, but that on the territory of BiH the UN Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights were found without any reason to inflict serious and life-threatening injuries and without any valid documentation why the force and brutal injuries were committed. What happens in relation to NATO and with regard to the Starovlah family's claims of compensation, reminds me of a folk proverb that says the force of Bog does not beg, and it could be translated into force of justice does not acknowledge. I think it's the ugliest message that could remain for those who have done this work, I wouldn't go on to tell you what happened. I just want to remind you that in that... action there's a guy who was 29 at the time, who's graduated college, now 100% disabled. According to Dayton documents, signed by BiH with NATO, it is said that arbitration is organised in such and similar cases, I think it is called the arbitration court, but NATO, which includes representatives of BiH... According to this answer, the issue is refused to be discussed in the arbitration court. So I appeal once again,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27788	We're a little bit... Branko, we're a little over time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27789	Here is just two minutes, so I appeal once again to the Council of Ministers that if it comes from the fact that BiH has accepted a signed agreement with NATO, practically, that it solves the issues that are being raised by NATO forces, then BiH must bear the costs for what NATO has done in this particular case. I ask you that although it is not business to allow... this matter to be discussed before members of the Council of Ministers at the next joint session. I think, if nothing else, it would be a human gesture of MPs and delegates towards that family who, neither guilty nor due, suffered enormous damage. In addition, I once again mention a young boy of 29 who became a 100% disabled person and depended on the help a person must give him daily. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27790	Slavko Jovičić, comment on the answer received.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27791	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of my parliamentary question that I asked at the 53rd session, and it was simple: 'Is BiH the only country in the world that retroactively applies Criminal Law?', I was obliged to post it because of the letters sent to me by Serbian and Croatian prisoners in the KPD "Kula" and passed when I set it up, and I explained that they are not running away from responsibility, that they are asking for everything to be implemented, but in response to the second paragraph, it is said that the question of the time in force of the Criminal Law is that it occurs in those situations when a criminal offence has been committed and its verdict has occurred. Then the question arises: 'By which law will the perpetrator be tried, is it according to the law which was in force at the time of the crime or by the law that is in force at the time of the trial?' The issue has been resolved in Article 4(2) of the BiH Criminal Code, which provides for the exceptional possibility of retroactive application of the new mild criminal law, if it is found more favourable for the perpetrator than for a concrete criminal offence, since nothing is favourable here under the new law for those who seek, but all of them unfavourable. And then it really amazes the last paragraph in which they say, 'What law will be applied in a concrete procedure is decided by the court on the principle of independence, impartiality and professionalism. The decisions of the court are based, imagine, 'in a free judicial opinion in facts and responsibilities on a legal basis'. So, with free opinion. And now they are calling for the appeal of Maktouf, who led before the BiH Constitutional Court, whose appeal was rejected. I am now, not to comment further, so the same question or interpretation of the answers I received from the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers for Answering the Ministry of Justice, ask that this question be answered by the Constitutional Court and by the interpretations which are freely tried, which would be a belief, not by the football of whether or not the penalty will be judged, but by the law-respecting belief, by the one who was in the power of committing the crime or by the one who was subsequently adopted. And here for a wonderful miracle they say which is more favourable. This one is more unfavourable for them, and they're asking for that dilemma to be clarified. But I repeat, and I represent the thesis, I don't defend them, let them be tried, if they're guilty of any court's evidence, I'm neither a prosecutor nor a judge, so that someone doesn't put that context in place that I represent now that they should be released, no, they're just looking to be prosecuted, but in the way BiH's Criminal Law predicts it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27792	And I've still got Drago Kalabić reported for comment. Here you go, drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27793	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 40 Well, I am not satisfied with the Council of Ministers' response, although in some ways it has not been deafened to the essence. I remind you that my question has been to the Council of Ministers on the Council of the Communications Regulatory Agency, which is being paid to the Director General of the Agency by 30%. What the Council of Ministers replied, in a way, prevented the payment of such a salary, but was not suspended and this decision has not been amended. This means that this salary still exists as such and that probably in some procedure a man can come to... the collection of these claims. I thought it would activate some other mechanisms to change such a decision and it's very interesting that the media don't talk about it, don't write, I don't know the exact amount, but in light of the new circumstances, that salary is astronomical. It must be huge now, so one of the biggest salaries in BiH is added 30% and it is now as such. I can guess why the media is silent, why... we're never at odds that we're interested in the media, but probably, if it's a fear of sanctions, whether it's fearing the raids of that agency, their beatings. But let's just keep quiet about it and I can see that I haven't found any information about it anywhere, although it's been searched here since the municipality, the canton, the state parliament and everything else, but let's just say this is quiet, even though such a decision is still in effect. Thank you. And I'm going to ask again a question to see what the mechanisms are to bring down this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27794	Here is Mirko Okolić, who applied for a comment. Here you go, Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27795	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, I signed up on purpose because I have no comment on the response, but I would like one comment on the unsupervised answers. I have three addressed parliamentary questions that I have not received an answer to. One is addressed at the last session, and well, and it may not be realistic to get it by today, and that's quite okay, but on two parliamentary issues I haven't received an answer in a few months, so this way I urge to get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27796	Well, here, Mr. Okolić, we'll intervene, or we'll send an update to the answers to your questions. In this way I no longer have reported, I conclude this sub-point, comments on the answers received. And now we're going with a new series of parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27797	No microphone 41 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27798	I'd love to rationalize it, but people do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27799	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27800	People if they don't say it in public, like they didn't ask. Adem, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27801	Here I can surrender that you don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27802	Great, I appreciate it. Congratulations. The others. _________(?) Here's what I teach. Thank you, congratulations. Thank you, thank you. So, all of you, please, submit questions, we will refer them to the addresses of those to whom they are addressed by procedure. So let's see who insists on making it public. Branko Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27804	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stayed to say the question because it was addressed to you, or to the College. In fact, you know well that this home and the House of People... have adopted the conclusions of the Interim Commission on the old foreign savings and one of the conclusions is: 'To immediately approach the formation of a commission to work on amendments and additions to the Law on old foreign savings'. That's the conclusion of both homes, as far as I know, nothing on this matter has been done. If you'll excuse me for taking the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27805	Nothing, you deliver the question. Rifat Dolić. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27807	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers: 'Do you have data on the number of BiH citizens who are living outside BiH in countries around the world today with refugee status? How many of these are in some countries, where and how many BiH citizens still live in collective refugee settlements in Croatia and Serbia and some other countries today?" To ask this question, I am encouraged by a recent conversation with a BiH citizen from Banja Luka who is still staying in a refugee village near Vinkovic, in which he stays about 50 BiH citizens and who do not remember the last time they were visited by one of the BiH authorities. Apparently, such collective refugee centres exist both in Varazdin and Osijek, and in Serbia. It would be necessary that 13 years after the war we know where and what conditions BiH citizens live with refugee status in other countries, especially those living in collective refugee settlements, because this is mainly about the old, sick and from the state and often the family of abandoned citizens. The second issue is the Council of Ministers chairman's question: "What is the BiH state and its institutions are doing towards the rescue and return of BiH property, its companies and citizens in Serbia after the Serbian government extended the deadline for resolving the status of this property to 30. Nine. 2009 the year?' This and similar questions asked only in this home several times, and from several companies asked me to ask him again, given their and my impression that BiH, or those representing it on this issue, is still independant and without elementary information about such property, the place where it is located and others. Anything I would explain further on this matter, I would repeat what I have already said. But this time too, I must express my disappointment with the dose of indolence and irresponsibility of those whose job is to protect the property of the BiH state, its companies and citizens, who unfortunately remain the subject of robbery and illegal treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27808	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27809	I only submitted the question with a note,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27810	Thank you. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27811	...that some questions I haven't got an answer for a year and more. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27812	We'll intervene, Remzija. Jozo Križanović. Did you, Jozo, surrender? You're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27813	Well, I've been thinking about giving up oral delivery of this issue, but appreciateing that the issue is very important in view of the situation in BiH, I would just like to say very briefly that this House is discussing a plan of measures to overcome and mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis on BiH's economy, this House of Representatives at a session almost two months ago, 13. On 5th of this year, he assessed the presented material of the Council of Ministers as missing and decided to return it to the Council of Ministers, asking the Council of Ministers to make a new programme of measures appropriate to the seriousness of the situation in BiH's economy and concrete activities to stop negative economic trends. Here, almost two months have passed since then, as we know, the situation is getting worse in BiH, yet there is no appropriate response to the conclusion of this home. So, given the fact that they are following the annual holidays, that there will be a certain reduction in the activity of BiH institutions, I think it is really high time to ask the question I refer to the Council of Ministers in this formulation: 'When will the Council of Ministers adopt the appropriate proposal for measures to mitigate the economic crisis in BiH, in line with the conclusion of this House of 13. Five this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27814	Well, for your information, the College decided that I was trying to get the right materials for this debate, because apparently these people sitting here didn't listen to what you were talking about, no matter what you insisted on speaking publicly. So I don't have any more applications for new questions. I'm also concluding this agenda point completely. So, "Comments and New Parliament Questions" closed. Let's go, let's go to the next item on the agenda, so, "Ad." 3. The request of MPs Sefer Halilović, Vink Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović, Velimir Jukić and Adem Huskić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure So, we're discussing this request for a procedure... Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 3. 44 Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27817	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here, esteeming the flow of today's congregation and the time we've spent, I'll try to be very brief, but let me first of all explain. So, I am, using the possibility provided for in Article 118. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the amandman contesting one of the amendments to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, the youth, etc. I accepted at my session yesterday and I'm asking you for just a few moments of attention. I'll pokušati to explain why I asked amandman I. to be amandman II.. which we adopted on this committee is erasing. Therefore, in the proposal for an integrated text of this Act, Article 2 which explains discrimination and which is covered by amandman II.. the applicant, in its position (2), says 'the prohibition of discrimination applies to all public authorities and to all natural and legal persons, both in the public and private sectors, in all areas' and now lists further. The amendment that we adopted on the Commission reads 'that Article 2(2) deletes the words (that means public relations to the public sector) and the syntagma both in private and in private, with an explanation, and quotes it: 'We value unnecessary privacy in order not to be subject to possible manipulation, because privacy is sufficiently protected by the European Convention on Human Rights'. I do not really intend to give a statement to anyone, however, but I do have to remind myself, I call for this in the light of my amendment, that the Directive of the Council of the European Community has since 2000/43 explained in Article 3 of the application area relating to the prohibition of discrimination and that explicitly reads: 'In the frameworks of powers conferred on the Community, this Directive applies to all persons in both the public and private sectors, given the possibilities to be', etc., etc. 45 Namely, what am I saying? Appreciateing the importance of this moment, the importance and the need to pass the 'No Discrimination Law', I think it is very important, regardless of any failures... that I have tried to influence in the course of acceptance and voting, statements on amendments, which can be corrected by our obligations under international agreements and conventions... whose signatories and which we have accepted, therefore, the highest degree of discrimination is the field of the private sector, since we are a country that has equalised all rights of ownership, we cannot ignore the fact that the most deficient people and are exposed to the greatest chances of destroying their fundamental rights are precisely the field of the private sector, how and yet in public institutions we can act. Therefore,... if we adopt a law like this, it would lead to a complete inability to act on discriminatory actions, acts or actions carried out or done in the private sector. Therefore, it does not apply this position, by this amendment amended in an attempt at the Commission, to undermine the right of the individual to privacy. My intervention concerns not to deny the right of society, the state and us to combat discrimination equally in all types of work in BiH. I hope that I have been clear enough, and in my explanation I have also called on the recommendations of the European Commission and the EU Council Directive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27818	Well, I hope we understand that all MPs know the importance of this law, Mrs Mirjana, that, among other things, it is important for visa liberalisation. Here's the deputy, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27819	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here, finally to begin the debate and the important issues for this country, means, such as this law, which means one step forward towards visa liberalisation for all BiH citizens. Significant efforts have been made in making this law to have it in our second reading today. And I also want to thank the legislator for having one, I would say, quite a quality law and for all those who have been involved in their repairs in modifying, to say, certain provisions. We, in the Committee's work, have considered seven or eight amendments, it seems to me, and we have accepted seven amendments, with the resignation of one amendment, because the two amendments were very... similar constitutions, so to speak. In order to avoid any, here is the effort to make as many quality solutions as possible, I must say that in proposing this amendment that has been accepted at the Committee, I think, in the light of the false understanding, there have been certain claims that this amendment has been adopted and I think that this explanation that the distinguished representative Malić has given for her amendment is correct and I think that as one of the amendments, so to speak, which the Commission has accepted, I call on all MPs to accept this corrective amendment and to accept this law with the Report of the Committee and the amendments that the Committee has accepted. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27820	Are there any more reported? There isn't. I am concluding the debate on the Proposal of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, in the second reading. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH (Second Reading) Do we have any reports? We don't. I am concluding the debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on deposit insurance in BiH banks, in a second reading. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27823	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! The right to an environment without mines is certainly a human right, isn't it? Under the principle, the Commission for Human Rights can be a competent commission, but mines on 3.26% of BiH territory, suspected of being polluted by mines, are primarily a security issue. And I think, despite the decision made by the Joint Commission on Human Rights in the first phase of this law, that you should forward this issue to the Defence and Security Commission in the second phase. I think the first mistake was made, but not an irreparable mistake. A team before the Defence and Security Commission, BH MAK, and the Demining Commission sees the institutions of 47 BiH that are within the scope of its work. We visited BH MAK yesterday, the Demining Commission, and we ask you in front of the Commission that if it comes under this law, the law should be passed, as competent, by the Defence and Security Commission. I'm not going to talk about BiH's mine pollution problem right now, I'm just going to say one piece of information about how important this is. Although the BiH Council of Ministers brought a strategy for BiH to be mineless by 2019, we were at a site yesterday where we saw that the homes of people, returnees who live, were located right next to the minefield. It's marked though, it's done BH Mak, as much as it could, and they're doing really work in a satisfactory way, I saw it yesterday and we all could see it. And besides this application to submit this law to the Commission for Defence and Security, because 100 to 150 thousand people in BiH live in an area where they live right next to their estates and houses, yesterday I learned one piece of information (I will now publicly state it here, because I am very concerned, I think scared) that under one tree, under one tree, people living in that place were gathering, sitting, hanging out, and the demining team found eight mines. So this is the thing that all together needs to make us serious about demining BiH, or removing mines. And the other thing I want to do here is question the content of the law. Unfortunately, as the Commission, we were unable to deal with the content of this law, but the content of the law results in some institutions being abolished, such as the Demining Commission, and the Ministry's intelligence in this area is being strengthened. I don't mind that, but I'm afraid it won't have a direct impact on the demining program that comes from donor funds. In that direction, as far as I know, and on the Human Rights Commission, there have been certain objections. I think we will have to take this matter very seriously at the Defence Commission and I intend to propose to the Commission (and here with me yesterday from this home on the spot was Mr Križanović) that, if we adopt the law in the first reading, and here I propose that we adopt it in the first reading, not to bring it down, that we will have to carry out a quality debate with both the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Commission for Demining, therefore, an institution whose abolition is foreseen, and of course with a key institution in the operational sense in this BH MAK business and see what are the best solutions in order for BiH to truly fulfil this strategy, the tasks set out in this strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers, and the conclusion of that strategy reads: 'BiH without mine 2019. year!' Because, even though 21 people were killed by mines in 2008, of which is mortally 19, and in the current course of this year, five people,... of which three people are mortally, so even though the number of victims is decreasing, we must not be satisfied in BiH as long as there are no mines and as long as any human life is threatened by mines. And I ask you, therefore, that if we adopt the law today in our first reading, and here I think it is possible to fix it with amendments, after all, it is not too late to bring it down in another reading unless it can be corrected by amendments, to forward it to this Commission for the Defence and Security of the House of the College. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27824	Here, I see, the Commission is already taking it seriously, which is commendable. Mirko Okolić. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27825	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say about this law and I will say something as an MP, not as a member of the Joint Commission, which here may have been responsible for this law or not, but it doesn't matter at all, and especially after yesterday's meeting and visits to BH MAK, one of the state institutions that really got all the international and domestic praises in their work, which is why these praises and they came. And it would be very nice if our ministry, which I really don't have a lot of objections from, from which this law comes (the laws that have come so far did not fall, were mostly passed, in relation to some other ministries where there are almost no laws) that the Ministry and BH MAK, or people most concerned with this problem, agree this law and that they are on the same background. I can't take the responsibility to support this law, and that's why I'm going to suggest that this law doesn't go through in the first reading, and it's about the next one. If they were on the same background or approximately, we could, in my opinion, correct it in the second reading and through the amendments, but I think that there are so many differences in this law by the proposings and by whoever should do the most to implement that law that I'm afraid could achieve the result. Yesterday, we heard from the Demining Commission, which was appointed by the Council of Ministers, and that is why it invited me to discuss it this way, which is that it would be most useful of us MPs and of this assembly not to adopt this law by chance, either in the first place, and so we are supposed to help BiH and better demining its territory, rather than by adopting this law. It is a big statement in the official meeting, and I want to trust these people because they are dealing with this problem, especially because I have information that donors for demining our territory, in BiH mines polluted, have also expressed their skepticism under this law and I fear that in this respect, donations will not be reduced until some relationship under this law has been broken, that is, to the failure of any other legal solutions or any other consensus. Well, if these donations were to be left behind by the international community, or better said by international donors, then we would indeed do enormous damage to BiH in terms of reducing mine cleaning in BiH territory. That's why I think there's probably a certain misunderstanding here between the proposings and those who need to implement this law, when it's passed, to those who donate funds to implement this law, or to demining BiH, and therefore my proposal would go to that end, so that we don't even support the principles of this law today, and that the competent ministry together with BH MAK and other state institutions dealing with this problem find common, let's say, the denominator in the making of this law. Because yesterday, I am impressed to hear, not from one representative of one nation, not from two, but from the same opinion, no matter what people come from, these people from BH MAK, or from the Demining Commission, and it really meant one expert opinion, in my opinion, and not from any political or any other people, and that's why I want to respect it and I don't want to be responsible if I give my vote to support this law, and the demining situation in BiH would be much worse. Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27826	I must say, we have, to say the least, a confusing situation. Unfortunately, we do not have a resolute minister present here, or legislator of this law. I suppose that's what the Ministry of Civil Affairs has been doing and it's amazing that there has been no communication, etc., so always post-festum we find that there will be something disastrous for BiH. Lately, we've got some sudden signals, etc. But here it is, there it is. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27827	The Honorable Chairman! So, I'm like Mr. Okolić, and neither I nor the SNSD Club can support this law even in the first reading, for the simple reason we don't think we can fix the amendments. But there's no misunderstanding in passing this law on that background of stories like maybe others. BiH and every piece is polluted, one that is, mines and does not choose Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others. So, let's stop this story right now, like, here, entity protection or it's not a transfer of jurisdiction, so it has nothing to do with it. If the MAK has produced these results that come from all international institutions and at least from our institutions, I don't see what will improve. On the contrary, it's only going to get worse because we're going to have to finance the MAK from next year, and that's huge funding. Donations will be, not cut, denied. Because it will no longer be an independent institution but will be with one ministry. And I don't see what we get. And so far, the MAK has had extraordinary results precisely thanks to the huge donations of other countries. What are we going to get if the MAK is declared even by the Ministry? What would they get, not to be part of one ministry as an agency? And right on the back of this story, which Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Okolić spoke of, there we are... which would be said, on the same ground. I don't think we're improving anything by this law. We're not working anything out. If we're going to solve the question of whether there's going to be one director and one deputy instead of one director and two deputies, so let's say the amendments can't be from the same people or from the same entity, and then we don't need such a law. The second thing, I said in the introduction, it can't be fixed by amendments, because it's a matter of constitutional change. Here, this law also treats some of the competences of the Civil Protection Authority that are in the jurisdiction of the entity. So, around that one thing, we're going to make the whole thing worse and the law won't be passed, whether there's any first reading, amendments, second reading. That's why I'm pleading that we don't support him in his first reading, not even in our first reading, but to try to see what's the best option, so Parliament can help. If we can't get through the budget, some donations, something to come up with without driving strangers away when people are already in the mood to help the MAK, because it has extraordinary results. With this, I'm afraid, by passing the law, as we did earlier in some cases, the foreigners will just say: "Great, you have a budget, you fit in there, and that budget won't help any action." And we should have dozens of teams that we need in this time, not in winter, but today to work on the ground, so that people can automatically go out to their processing surface, do something, and neither do I, the forest, and not that what Mr. Džaferović said is happening to us. 50 It's indeed a tragedy that we've had so many victims. And unfortunately, it's not possible to predict that we won't have any more. That's why it's necessary to speed up all activities, but we're not going to settle it by law. And that's why you used to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27828	Keep it down, Slavko. Look, Salko could go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27829	Well, he's worried about this power in Mostar, this colleague of mine ran it over there, so we'll figure it out, we'll figure it out. So, let me finish. We can't support this law in the first reading either, it won't solve anything in the procedure, or in anything, let's somehow find a scheme to get it back to someone, so let's agree to see, and that the MAK is doing, that the people who work there are extremely supportive of our Parliament, which they've never received in this way before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27830	I'm moving Bešlagić yet. Please, I have an application one, in three hours for five minutes, members of this investigation committee, the automotive industry, etc., for five minutes let them consult and we'll finish it, and we'll talk, we'll continue. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27831	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, let me just say a few words. When I got this bill, he wasn't enough for what he was trying to do first. The Law on Mine Action?, I thought it was a ban on mining in BiH, and it's a fact that 'demination law in BiH', and I think it can be done by the amendment phase, whether it will pass, it won't pass, it doesn't matter. However, the bottom line of my debate is that, here, and if the first reading goes through, I think it should go towards precisely in the finansiranje item saying which funding is and on what basis. I'm afraid if it stays just like this that it will be... separate, but if it refuses foreign donors, I'd say, then I think it's better not to pass the law than to adopt a demining strategy and see how much donor funding it takes, but to go towards getting a law in which, after all, we'll say because of the crisis and the rest we don't have demining and thus question the total, I'd say, demining and the total rights of citizens to live in that territory. So I think we should think about this. I'm glad that... the proposer based on these suggestions... to say possibly that he is currently going to the Committee for Legal Security, 51 I mean for security, because it is more than the Commission for Human Rights, although it is all human rights again, but it seems to me that without this item and without this definition of financial resources that would be linked to the deadline for demining, this law, if it does not bring the possibility of such realization, is better not to bring in but to bring in a strategy and offer foreign partners to invest funds for demining. So here again, when voted, let's think about what's on the scale, but I'd like to have a proposing here and eventually he'll answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27832	And I've got Nik Lozančić's name on it, so I'm out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27833	He's got a BH MAK director.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27834	Well, Mr. Šefik, BH MAK's CEO knows how to sign up if he wants to, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27835	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27836	Well, here, I'm pushing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27837	So you push on, no one defends you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27838	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, while respecting remarks that perhaps in the first stage this law should have been delivered to the other competent committee, the Defence and Security Committee, I have to say that I have not heard from so far fellow MPs, debaters, nor have I heard any particular reason why this law does not need to be heard at this session today. No, I shouldn't, so I didn't hear. I've heard today's remarks that there's information, that someone somewhere heard that this law would reverse the situation. I'm not saying it's not like that. I have to say, I'm neither an expert on minement nor demining, so I respect those who are experts or for one or the other, because I can speak more competently than I can about this topic. But I want to believe what's written in the reason for this law. The reasons for the law were provided by the legislator of this law, the Council of Ministers. Among other things, it is said: 'The basic conditions for the implementation of the Action Plan of the Implementation Strategy... is the adoption of a new law on mine action.' So we have a Demining Strategy, and here the Proposer warns us that it is very important to pass a new law so that this strategy can be realised. In order to remind us, that we have a 'Demination Law' that should be changed by over 70%, that's what the Explanation says, and then they're a series of common practices, so to speak, given that so many changes in the current law need to be made, they chose to go with a proposal for a whole new law. 52 Further: 'Implementation of these legal solutions will significantly improve security in BiH territory, increase the effectiveness of mine action, and establish a system that will at any time be able to respond reliably and professionally to the set demands of the wider social community and lead to the full elimination of mine risk in BiH." I'm reading the arguments we got in law. In my current reasons for not accepting this law, I've heard nothing concrete about what this is about. I repeat, this is the Council of Ministers' proposal. So, I really think that with this request, the initiative, I don't think it's burning that, in the second phase of considering this law, the Commission for Defence and Security and all of us, after all, because it's hard to define, it's here and it's about protecting human rights, because the right to a secure environment is one of the fundamental human rights, but it's certainly about elemental security. We in the College were in charge of the fact that the legislator of this law, among other things, meant the Ministry of Civil Affairs, not the Ministry of Security or the Ministry of Defence, which is why one of the additional arguments was given to the Human Rights Committee. And if you saw this opinion, i.e. the report of the committee responsible, you saw in the end the conclusion of the Committee which says 'the Commission is committed', or this which has so far been considered or someone who will consider, 'that all relevant services, institutions in BiH, are consulted in considering this law in order to get to the best possible solution of the law'. I will not talk about certain, I would say, technical shortcomings, mistakes, let me put it that way, because it seems to me that the mistakes that are very easy to remove in law, but I think this law, because of these and these reasons of the Council of Ministers, should give it a chance and let it go in first reading, and in second reading, with consultations with all relevant institutions dealing with this problem, expertly, professionally, etc. There are even better solutions than those proposed in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27839	Replica, Mirko Okolić. Hold on, Mr. Gavran, we're about to take the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27840	Well, maybe I should tell my esteemed colleague Mr. Lozančić that, when he reads this argument, he's right. Of course, however, you will not get the law from the promoter to write you an explanation that is not meant to accept that law. I'm sure the Proposer won't write in an explanation anything other than what should make us aware of the adoption of that law. Here, I would like to hear us and some other side if there are here from those present in this room, but I can't understand that the motion for such a very important law isn't on the agenda point and that here we can simply exchange an opinion and that maybe he changes my opinion and that I accept the arguments of the Ministry and say the office, you're right, or accept our arguments and say you're right, etc. 53 Behold, I will state only some reasons why it is not good for such a law to pass the procedure, and I did not say that it is not necessary to make new ones, but it is certainly a better old law than it is necessary. When funding and the complete procedure are assigned work is under the patronage of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, although there are other institutions that can do this... But here's what's important. Unnecessary centralisation of the mine action segment into one ministry has been carried out. Article 9 assigns all competences in the field of anti-mining action to one ministry, contrary to international standards recommendations. The Geneva Centre for humanitarian demining excludes interresorship, i.e. the inter-minister body in the previous Demining Act of Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 etc. Regulated. It is contrary to the competences of individual ministries, i.e. Article 15. The law on ministries and other management bodies. Article 9(1) The scope of the anti-mining action policy covers and the area of disarmament affects development, tourism, agriculture, refugees and returnees, the responsibilities of the NCP and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. For example. Article 9(2)(c) International representation of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Article 12(3) of the NCP approves the establishment of regional offices which is contrary to the existing law as the Council of Ministers adopts changes to the systematisation. Here's some reason why you shouldn't. Now if I had the Ministry's talkers, maybe people would say yes, those are the reasons, or they said they weren't the reasons, so they'd give some other arguments. Because they're gone, I have this written by people who deal with this problem, which is why I stand for this attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27841	What do these people didn't deliver to the department in time, but there you go. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27842	Okay, I'll be very brief. I think it's a very important law and that since the law is in the first reading that the law can be fixed. Here, we'll support this law in the first reading. However, I would also very briefly refer to Article 12, where the item (1), says: 'The BiH MAK headquarters is in Sarajevo', and then under '(2) BH MAK has offices in Banja Luka and Sarajevo'. I hope this is a mistake. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, I don't. So the headquarters and office are in Sarajevo. _________(?) 54 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27845	I don't have any more reports. Here, Mr. MAK's director, Mr. Gavran has a wish. ... I don't know if you're in the position of a promoter?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27846	No, I'm not the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27847	And the director of the MAK. Here you go. _________(?) You don't have to. Well, they're looking for people to hear. Here you go, Mr. Gavran...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27849	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I have no experience really related to all these affairs. I'm glad to hear that the center as a center works well. I think yesterday this commission was, uh, going around, seeing how it works, and I can tell you responsibly that the mines in BiH are being put under control, that it's being planned, that it knows what to do and I believe it will continue. I believe it will continue, but I will say something that is happening to me. Since 2002, when I became director of the Mine Removal Centre, it should be said that the High Representative two or three months before that had replaced all people in anti-mining actions for crime and corruption, that day and day, that the square of the demining space was from 10 to 15 marks, that today from 2 to 3 marks of cleaning, that in 2002 we had six companies that worked, today we have 28 companies. I'm having a hard time getting all these discussions when I see that there are some mechanisms that will, in a way, try to break the whole system. But good. When I had a salary of 4.9 assistant ministers, no one was interested in this place. Now that the law has been passed and the director's salary, the whole chaos is being created around antimine action, but good. It is difficult for me now to tell what Minister Nović, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was going to say. But what's here, we all need to keep in mind. The demining committee in past law 55 existed. There is no demining commission in this law. The proposal of the Centre for Mine Removal of BiH, together with the Demining Commission, was that it remains a Demining Commission and such a bill went to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. The Ministry of Civil Affairs, knowing everything that has happened in recent years, and we must all know that Mr. Minister was and the director of the SIPA and conducted investigations that are being conducted today, has in some way (I don't know why, you have to ask him) decided that there is no more Commission, but within the framework of the Ministry of Civil Affairs will form a body.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27850	Mr. Gavran, they're going back to the class, to the law, if you have anything to say about the law, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27851	Okay. When it comes to funding.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27852	Let go of that human stuff, don't judge the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27853	No, I really don't want to judge.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27854	Well, don't, you're doing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27855	But I want to represent the minister, I mean, if you want to understand me, I belong to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and in this law, what I think needs to be well guessed is the way of funding. We really need to find good solutions in which way, because some donors, I now don't know why, expressed some doubt about the law and in some way let us know that if the law continues to go into practice, they won't support anti-mining actions until they see how it will start to work. There, that's the key to everything. So, in my opinion, we should continue a diplomatic story to see with the donor what he wants, how he wants. But the key the donor wants to recognize is whether the International Demining Fund remains in Slovenia or not, because this law does not mention the International Fund anywhere. And certain donors like the US -- they don't know how to finance humanitarian matters through the government budget. At least that's what I'm told. There, I've had so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27856	Thank you very much. It is certain that they know how to take care of their interests and the Slovenian Fund and everyone else. But here, thank you, it was useful. I conclude the debate on the Proposal of the Mine Action Act, in the first reading. 56 Let's move on. Point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Anthem of BiH (first reading) The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on Constitutional Law and Principles was given to you on July 6th. The Commission established a valid constitutional basis and adopted the principles of the proposed law. So, I'm opening a debate in my first reading on the draft law amending the State Anthem Act. I don't have any reports. I've got a report, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27858	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27859	Slavko, you're too late. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH (first reading) The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on Constitutional Law and Principles was given to us on 6 July 2009 and the Constitutional Commission established the constitutional legal basis and supported the principles of the proposed law. Here, Slavko Jovičić on the Immunity Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27861	No, that was for the anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27862	What about the anthem? Have there been any reports of this law? There isn't. I am concluding the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Immunity Act. Let's go point nine. Here, did you want to announce he'll go to the Constitutional Court, that's all. So we're going to point 9. Wait a minute, please, let me get on with it. 57 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH Institutions (first reading) It's also about first reading. The Commission has accepted the principles. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27865	The Honorable Chairman!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27866	And I'm actually letting you discuss everything, Slavko, and those previous laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27867	No, I should sing first, and now this isn't for singing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27868	Come on, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27869	Okay. Thank you for your suggestion, Chairman. You know I have great respect for you. Always help me when I do a little bit of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27870	Okay. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27871	So, let's start with us right now. If the problem is MPs in this country, and most of all we are in the media and whatever we bring today, whatever law, the headlines will all be MPs, we voted for this and that, and we put those lowest categories at risk, etc., and last time I said it fine. So, I never got any official information, and I'm looking for it, and it's about this and 40 million marks of savings at the level of BiH institutions, not common, here's the BiH institution, why between 600 and 800 vehicles are used, from the secretary, advisors, assistants, secretaries, civil servants, and I think it's a huge savings both on vehicles and on fuel and on technical checks and on the purchase of those vehicles, because the sale should be a general bid to sell it out if there are. So there are countless things where savings can be made. The second thing, I've always been against linear and increase and cut wages. So at the last session, I listed only two categories, our waiters who have 600 marks, to them if we take 10%, that's a lot, and not to talk about the border police I always support, because it also protects the security of the state and fights huge smuggling and crime, so God Bog we cut their wages by that coefficient or percentage that they're reducing MPs and here today to declare that next to the 10% that we've been reduced, it's going to be 10% less if it's going to help us get that stand-by arrangement with the Monetary Fund, but it's going to be spent, and it's going to bring back our generations, because it's not going to open new jobs over these couples, but it's going to buy social peace, and today there's a lot of people out of work. So, a very unserious law like this proposed. It was possible to say: all the employees of BiH institutions who have income, not pay, but receive up to 1,000 marks, to reduce them by, say, 1%, and those who have 1,000 to 2,000 by 3%, and those over 2,000 to 4,000 by 7%, I am now talking to the eye of the figures as they have made an eye on the law. Because this wasn't even an eye, this is from someone's mind, just let's ease up this crowd of media as we're on the wallpaper, and these over 4,000 in which we've recently belonged, so we don't have any more, because we've been cut 10% off on my fellow Prodanović's proposal, who's picked up fame with the people, here today I want to cut in half and even more to cut ourselves. So we're very unseriously raising funds and reducing public spending. Does each secretary have to be paid a phone phone from 50 marks to 300 marks? What's the secretary's cell phone gonna pay for the state, so does she ever sit in an office? So if that boss is gonna call her something to tell her, so he's got better receipts, he's gonna call her, she's not gonna call him. And there's countless savings we can make. So we had information here that the car of the former finance minister spent 28.6 liters of oil on 100 km, so I asked your experts here if it was her driving the threshold, tank, I don't know what she was driving that was so much consumption, so I didn't get an answer. So let's see, really, that savings can be made every day in this Parliament around this consumable material. Here are eight months of chairing Mr. Belkić, let's get all the materials in Bosnian. We understand all languages, we don't need an interpreter. So come Mr. Živković, we all receive in Serbian and Cyrillic, and I will only read these materials in that mandate. So when Mr. Lozančić comes, in Croatian. Anyway, I'm taking it this way, and I've never won it in Serbian and Cyrillic before, and I haven't had that problem. I know every language, thank Bog, I don't need an interpreter, I care about what it says there. So, that's the savings too. 59 So these professional services got us started, I see e-mails, I get a nice e-mail, so I buy a copy of the paper, so I copy the law myself, I don't wait for the mailman to bring it in, so I read it, so I do... etc., etc. Countless opportunities to make savings. If we're going to make savings on waiters who rarely see us live down there, than everyone signs anything, and 30 marks our bill. Let's not get in the way here, at least. At least let's not embarrass ourselves here, and that these media: picked up accounts, I see in these publicly printed media, all come out, accounts that someone signed, the happiness of my signature is gone, and there will be none. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, now I've been elected officially. That cell phone, I see there, just found out that I have 100 marks, won't be paid by the state, I'll pay for it myself. So it won't help me with 100 marks, I'll cut the costs. So let's go to these directors of agencies that we don't know what they're doing, who brought themselves regulations and some acts, and we founded them, the director of the agency, let's say, not to mention him, they'll get angry, but each one is – unlimited use of the mobile phone. Who's the agency? Who's the director? I want to see who they called and if they're sitting in the office to make contact with the institutions of this country, the Council of Ministers and Parliament. Well, I don't see them, you should see them here all the time, this one now you know the swine flu – so I don't see this veterinary director, the food control director, no matter what every session they need to be present to hear what we're saying. So, I'm against this law-making, and this is the system that has to link the blow to our domestic poverty that works in BiH institutions, to the border police protecting this country from crime. So when it was the Excise Act, gentlemen, that you didn't support my suggestion to tax the luxury a little bit, I said, we don't have a lot of ladies, I admire our ladies not spending that expensive cosmetics, we're taxing some of that cosmetics. You know there are five people in BiH who have private planes. Private jet five people! Why didn't we tax them? So it came out in the media that we taxed on alcohol excises, and we didn't. That was 15 marks from before, so it's better, I said, that 100 cafes go to waste than 10 cities to starve. Gentlemen, you didn't want to accept it here, you, taking out that indirect taxation administration won't give consent. And I've asked a hundred times, and I'm not exactly that expert, and now I'm going to consult economic and financial experts and I'm looking at Professor Hadžiahmetović to help me out here, and I'm going to find the lawyers, and we're going to get rid of the Directorate for indirect taxation because we can't breathe without them. Their spokesman comes out fine and says we lack 170 million in the budget, and the media immediately says these thieves from Parliament will come up with something new to frame. That's about what it would be like. If we weren't thieves, and we weren't, because I see here that all honest and honest people are chosen by the people, so let's do something for the people. First, the people who serve us here and serve us. 60 Whatever it may seem to you, and the next session, believe me, I will do my best and I know five phrases by heart, and I will not speak in the language of every woman and woman who understands me but I will start this way: if we look at legislative projects with higher aspects and forums through the prism of the region, it looks like this in the context. What did I just say? That's what you'll have to translate, you know. So, don't go crazy, let's do something here that these others are doing to us about our heads and have you ever read in the paper against the Council of Ministers anything? Deputy Minister, driver, car, secretary, chief of staff, advisor for this, advisor for that, and eight more of us sitting in the office four times three. And there's no one alive. So, here Parliament is always on the ground whatever the law is. Of course we're in charge. Well, when we're in charge, let's just be really in charge. And this law can't go through like this, I repeat. Those who receive at the border and threaten to strike, so we are the first non-serious state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27873	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27874	Did I pass the time, so I did. Okay, I'm done. So, this is an unserious law, this is unserious, I have a thank you with you, of course, because it's an unserious law because it hasn't made a proper assessment of who needs to be reduced, so it puts it in the same basket, I said, waiter, and now I've got a free drink down there, thank Bog, because I'm defending them. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He treats everything. They're ours, they're employees of the joint service, they're ours. So, not all reduce by rate as they linear categories have some. Let them write a coma here. Slavko, Slavuj, has too much pay, 10%, I immediately sign 20% reduction, if it will improve the state of this country. But they won't, it's 200,000-300,000 savings. Let's do what I said: cars 600, 800 on bid and not drive gentlemen. When I had problems with rotations, which I now have fuel problems and technical tests. You put everything in context, and now I admire what's not there, so I welcome the front row again, the three chairs, there aren't, second row, four chairs, they're gone. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27877	Let's go to the replicas. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27878	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27879	Here's Slavko, now let's hear some of the others. (?) Let's hear some of the others, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27880	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27881	Me, me, but let's just hear the others, let's hear the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27882	I thought I'd do more replicating, but my colleague Jovičić has improved in this time-out. He got a little bit better compared to the first part of his exposure that I didn't listen to and was passed on to me by my colleague Kalabić. And I replicate in that part that... they need saving this country, and that the materials are obtained in one language. I'm willing to finance the paper and get all the materials in my language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27883	My Slavko, where are you going? Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27884	Well, here's the correcting of the wrong quote and one explanation. Someone might think it's an unserious bill. And if it were a non-serious state, I would disagree, perhaps I would have translated it into one construction before that if it could be about unserious MPs and unserious discussions. So, not about the unserious state. I'm not saying we're a serious country, but I don't know that we can use this structure. In any case, Slavko, thank you, I am at my disposal for many things that I can possibly, in the context of my humble knowledge, when it comes to making someone available, but to disenfranchise the Directorate for indirect taxation, I am telling you immediately that you will not have support with me. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27885	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27886	Professor, thank you, it's not a replica for you right now. It's a replica to Mr. Zorić. No Niko is denying you the right and respecting it, but I wanted to point out myself as much as I know three languages, to affirm myself, so I don't need them here. I didn't speak for you, I respect that you get all the materials in your language and if you happen to get in Serbian, Cyrillic, call me and I'll translate you, I'm certainly free. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There you go. So that's not what I meant, but I took it as a creamworth where you can make savings. Second thing, I didn't say "non-serious state." This is the most serious state when it works with us like we are. I said the unserious proposal of the Council of Ministers, and this is the most serious state and I admire and proud to live here and to function like this, the way we are and I'm proud and don't now that other countries, God Bog, would insult me to compare that we are much better than them, and I was there. Much better. So, I'm proud that this is a serious state, only inconclusive of these proposals, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27888	We're going back to the discussion report. Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27889	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, are free to say that the financial crisis and recession in BiH today take their bloody toll through the progressive growth of those who remain out of work daily, through a drastic decline in production and exports, a fall in cost-effective demand, a progressive decline in public income and others. To make things worse, all these consequences cause chain reactions and, unfortunately, all roads lead to socio-economic collapse. I don't think I'm going to be wrong if I say that our institutions and authorities, counting on us in this home, have done nothing or have done little to amortise these negative chain reactions or change the direction of the reaction. The talks on stand-by arrangements with the IMF are a straw of rescue from BiH's socio-economic collapse, and the way these talks have been conducted, the negotiations with the IMF so far, and how we seriously carry out the commitments taken at best can delay the collapse, but not prevent it. Negotiations with the IMF and reaching a loan agreement are certainly necessary as a financial injection to a patient who is close to a coma, but are equally necessary to encourage us and 63 make us think that rationalising public consumption is the first and only effective anti-recession measure that we ourselves can come up with and realize. This time of negotiations with the IMF opened every reasonable citizen of BiH to definitely see that in the post-war period, we did not have the number of laws that, instead of economic logic and calculation, were guided by the logic of buying voter confidence in the elections, and at this point in time, I would say, at the most difficult time when the crisis and recession take their toll and mistakes we should face and the bills finally came to collect. They will be paid, unfortunately, by those who are at least guilty of it. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions is small, and I will say a free and too shy step towards rationalising public spending, which is imperatively imposed as a condition for the conclusion of the Agreement with the IMF. I will also support this small step, but I must say that the temporary suspension of wage growth and a slight rationalisation of fees is insufficiently denied and insufficient contribution by state institutions at this time, facing the severe consequences of the crisis and recession. I must openly say that what is proposed and at least, I would say, indicates this bill at this point and a little bit hypocritical, if we know that the recent salaries and fees of the BiH institutions have increased by 40% to 110% and now, generously with this law, we are giving up further increases in salaries and a symbolic reduction in fees. This is, at the very least, hypocritical and ironic. Payments and fees in BiH institutions are not the only segments where savings and rationalisation in public spending can be programmed and achieved, which certainly have no alternative in the fight against the financial crisis and recession. Rationalisation and savings are also possible in a number of other segments, here's colleague Jovičić said it vividly where everything is possible, and I don't think we have to wait for the IMF, but we can do it ourselves, and then direct the effects into various subsidies and incentives of production and exports, payable demand and other anti-crisis mechanisms. For this reason, I propose that already today, although it is the proposal for a law in the first reading, it is already today to reach a conclusion which would read: 'It is binding that the Council of Ministers of BiH should, within the framework of further negotiations on credit arrangements with the IMF and other international financial institutions, adopt a programme of savings and rationalisation in BiH institutions for a stronger contribution and fairer distribution of burdens of restrictions in the social sector, as well as maintaining and increasing incentives for agriculture, entrepreneurship and other means of combating recession'. Of course, it would be ideal for this program to be done until the debate on this law in the second reading. Thank you very much, I'll distribute this proposal to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27890	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27891	Thank you. I didn't mean to answer in front of the Commission, but when I see this discussion as if it's phase two, second reading, I'm going to take a few things out. I believe that qualifications of 'unserious law', 'hypocritical', do not stand and do not like it here for us. However, this law is very serious, it was done by our Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance in coordination with the Fiscal Council, we know what the Fiscal Council is. The serious state has made commitments, 40 million from the IMF Agreement, so this bill fits in. If he's good, he's not good, we have another phase where the amendment can work. I'm not into linear either. This parliament has brought almost, we have voted here to take the coefficient over 4 to cut all those higher wages. And I'm up for those who have higher wages to be burdened with, and those who have lower to take care of. This law, first of all, is a 40 million-dollar savings, so much has been taken over by the Council of Ministers. We asked the Commission, Mr. Šakota replied that these 40 million will not be spent, some reserve fund, but will be transferred to the budget in 2010 and it is quite logical, normal, and means very seriously done with the Fiscal Council. I think this should be supported, and in phase two, we should take care of social aspects. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27892	Thank you. Next up for discussion, honourable Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27893	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, I would like to say first that the SNSD MEPs' Club in the House of Representatives in the first reading will strongly support this law and vote "yes". BiH has no other way but to send a clear message today when the International Monetary Fund makes a decision on a stand-by arrangement that we must accept at least one way of saving, or reducing public spending in BiH institutions. We have different views on this, this is not an amendment phase, we know the very difficult social situation of the largest number of employees in BiH institutions of 21,000. It is possible for the amendments to consider some of the issues so that this difficult situation of those who have the lowest incomes can be resolved, but we cannot stand silent before this story that this law came directly from the letter of intention of the Council of Ministers of BiH to the International Monetary Fund and was the subject of previous agreements on this. So, the Finance and Budget Commission unanimously supported this, we had a different approach and attitude in this, but this is about the most direct support of the Council of Ministers on the issue of reducing public spending in the BiH institutions' budget and transferring this savings to the BiH institutions' budget for next year. In a different way, and our relationship to this meant direct mistrust to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, or to the Council of Ministers. 65 The second issue, BiH institutions in BiH are the least affected by public spending cuts. So what we should say about the entity budgets that should be reduced to about 500 million, and what we're going to do, is people are going to perceive us if they say that we're not ready at this time to reduce spending by 40 million, which is only 9% compared to the total reduction and also what is a meaningless amount in this situation compared to the total stand-by arrangement that is about 2 billion and 300 million KM. Thank you. So we will support this law in the first reading and we will have time to influence it eventually in the amendment phase, but it is clear that it is impossible to influence it in another way that would mean reducing this planned reduction in public spending in BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27894	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27895	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, as we conclude talks with the IMF on the stand-by arrangement, I think our obligation as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or one of its homes, is to make our contribution and to support one of these laws. And I think that the Council of Ministers has been responsible and socially sensitive enough, bearing in mind the fact that the most painful cost-cutting of salaries is and that, having that in mind, this law proposes that this cut be minimal and that what has been discussed and negotiated with the IMF be respected. So, I am supporting this solution and I also expect the Council of Ministers to keep the remaining savings of 40 million marks on some other items and to inform the Council of Ministers of this Parliament's Assembly of BiH, this home, about the implementation of these planned savings. This is very important and important, and it wouldn't be good if at a time, a day, two, three, or, I don't know, how long it would take for the official signing of this stand-by arrangement, that we would show otherwise than to support this law. And another argument in favor of this claim is that this solution has been agreed by the Fiscal Council, and this is a problem from the authority of this body, and I don't think there's anything left for us but to support this and to the end of this year to monitor the realisation of the savings. I am convinced that this law is a good starting point, but I also expect significant savings to be achieved in other areas, and we all agree, because they talked about it a little in a picturesque way, etc., that there is room and I expect that we will do so by the end of the year. So, the HDZ Club of BiH supports such a law. If there's a need, it's possible to fix something in phase two, but I think this is a pretty good law. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27896	Remzija Kadrić. Excuse me, Replica, Remzija, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27897	I'm sorry, Remzija, we're from the same entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27898	I know, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27899	So I wouldn't be misunderstood, I didn't say I didn't support it, but I'm unhappy that it saves 40 million on these items. I'm asking for 100 million savings on those items I was talking about. And of course I'm going to give support, why, even if I had absolute authority to fail a stand-by arrangement, just a matter of work, it doesn't come to my mind. But I'm not happy with the way savings are proposed, which are items. Okay, I know that the amendments will be like the excises, they won't be accepted, and yet I will be angry at myself, the people will say, "Bravo, Slavo what you have supported, and you have failed -- and what we have done." I am now warning where we can make savings and that Mr. Šakota records it a little bit where they should make savings. And there are countless other things before the border police and waiters. So, about that, that wouldn't be a misunderstanding if I were against it. God Bog I'm against the law or against it, but I'm for more savings in other items and other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27900	Šakota is everything, Slavko, Šakota has recorded everything, I have seen it. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27901	I thank you, Chairman. So, I will briefly discuss these possible ways of austerity measures, and the Administrative Commission will also discuss at the session scheduled for 16 this month these possible ways of austerity measures, so that we will discuss certain initiatives to abolish fees for working in regular commissions, in ad hoc commissions, because these are regular jobs, to lift fees for the sittings of the House and Commissions and other issues. So, all of these austerity measures, I expect, so the Administrative Commission will certainly contribute to doing what we need to do and thus make a common contribution to the austerity measures in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27902	I don't have any more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. 67 Let's go to point 10. Ad. Ten. Statement on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposers: Ekrem Ajanović, Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić (first reading) I was in the introduction when we discussed the agenda. So, the promoters insisted that today be declared. Although in the meantime, therefore the truth after their intervention, and we have received the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, however, the promoters insisted that we declare this law today, and that will still be today, the debate on the law has been concluded earlier. So we're going to point 11. Ad. 11. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27906	No microphone 68 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27907	Okay, if there are any questions, etc., so I'm opening a debate. I, unfortunately, have not been reported for the debate and I am concluding a debate on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2008. Let's go to point 13. Ad. 13. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations in the period from 1. Seven. 2008 to 31. 12. 2008 So we got this report from the Department of Foreign Affairs 23. 6, and in line with the BiH presidency's conclusion from their 58th session. The Commission for Defence and Security has been responsible. We received our opinion on July 6th and in the opinion, the Commission proposes that the House approve an extension of the level of participation in peace support operations for 2009, as established by the decisions of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly houses. Furthermore, as you could see, the Commission is proposing to adopt a report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. 7 to 31. 12. In 2008, with an amendment in part of this report under the 10th conclusions, the proposal for participation relating to the deployment of police officers to UN peacekeeping missions in Liberia, Sudan and Cyprus is in line with the already approved level of participation for the current 2009 year. However, about this point 10. Reports, the Bureau proposes to Parliament to adopt these conclusions as a whole, which the Commission did not refer to in its opinion, so we expect the Commission rapporteur to sort of explain this. Do we have anyone from the Defense and Security Commission who's willing to explain what I'm talking about? If not, do we have anyone to discuss this agenda point? We don't. I'm closing the debate on point 13. Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Information on floods in Popo's field, on the Krupa River and the Hut mud area, with the Commission's opinion on external trade and customs
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27910	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, since there is no President of the Commission here, I think it's time to say a few words, because this whole hodogram that we've done deserves so that we have one insight into what actually happened and as far as we've come. From this initiative that I have launched to this day, it has been quite a while so I think that time has not been wasted and I think that this initiative has received one significant support in this House of Representatives, in the relevant committee, so I would say, and from representatives of all parliamentary parties, as well as from entities that are responsible for water management, electricity production, and the local community (i.e. the municipalities of Trebinje, Ravna and Capljina) and I think we have managed to show that from one issue of life, there is no policy, if there is a good will, there is a compromise proposal of conclusions like this which should be binding, first of all, the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, because at this point at BiH level there is no body that would explicitly deal with water and which has regulatory mechanisms. Unfortunately, it is a great deficit for me to prevent things like such natural disasters and to prevent them from repeating themselves in some way. And all this talk we've been telling about going around that space, getting to know each other, and, I'd say, approaching, it'll only make sense if this thing doesn't happen again. In this proposal for conclusions, there are no guarantees that ensure this, but here I am, as a proposal for the initiative, believe to a good extent that these conclusions will be the basis, therefore, that before the next winter, before the following situations, all entities, which are entity ministries, these are hydro-economic agencies, these are electro-prived enterprises, they provide such a flow of information and such preventive action in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Trade that they can act on time, and not when the situation is as it was last year. And here, I am therefore prepared to support this proposal for the conclusions proposed by the Commission. If there are any extras, we need to dissipate, and here it's crucial that we don't stay here, because watch out, that phallup, we're making a million conclusions, and after what happens. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is responsible here in front of this house and that we should be reported to the extent that all these entities are working to realize this, hopefully this framework that we are about to adopt today. Thank you very much. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27911	Here, I have a reported Slavko Jovičić, apparently a flood with him, in front of him a bottle of water. All right, here you go, Slavko, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27912	Look at the water, now three.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27913	He's giving up, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27914	I'm not giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27916	Dear Chairman, I thought a commission was being formed in Parliament when nothing will be determined, and so far it has been. And when you assigned us to this commission, where I'm under the circumstances because no one could have been chairman, I thought we wouldn't do anything. I must say here publicly in front of Parliament that I thank my colleague, Martin Raguž, for being very constructive with his initiative and idea, and for having gathered all the people who were invited to this problem or about this accident that happened in Pop's field today, unfortunately, with a daunting look, and it could feed all of BiH, but it was not possible against Bog, because we were convinced by these experts that something like this happened once in 40 years. And we followed the initiative down and, of course, there was a great contribution from colleague Mehmedović, colleague Jerko Ivanković, there was also a delegate of Šarab, because as a host downstairs, of course, and a great contribution made by Mr Raguž. And I think that these conclusions that you've got are very correct that in the coordination that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has to run with all the other factors that are important in this country that we can mitigate any of these accidents and disasters that have affected Pop's field and the people down there who have destroyed it, but I'm saying, against Bog, it couldn't, but it can be tempered and reduced to the least. What was I supposed to do here? It took co-ordination between two centrals or three hydroelectrics or even the other two states, Croatia and Montenegro, because that whole system was designed for the former Yugoslavia, it is now being deployed to three countries, but we must not allow one country, the other or the third because of the negligence of one to suffer the consequences of such disasters and the weather disasters that have occurred. I must honestly say that I am proud that this commission, although I was surprised that we just got a job, did a proper job, made conclusions that could be realized, and not what we used to do, it's only important that we conclude something, and no one will do it later, and we have pointed out exactly the measures, the deadlines, the institutions and all those who should include that before. It was an accident that happened in Pop's field, these conclusions don't need to be made for Pale, because there's no flood up there. But God Bog it happens anywhere, so this is a good example for everyone else, God Bog, I repeat, any accidents, accidents. 71 And now this season is going to be summer, so to expect fires, similar to floods, that will cause enormous damage to this country. And this was the best way. As I was initially skeptical that the Commission would establish anything, here I am now expressing my satisfaction that the Commission did what it could, proudly, Mr Chairman, on a proposal from you from the College, and to you that you gave us the task and I expect you to express your gratitude for us because we did this correctly, but with one remark: that you no longer be in charge of us in this kind of business, because this was really hard. It was meant to explain to people down there how we're going to warn them, but no one's going to make up for the damage, because it's not possible, and people have to live on something, that's the point. Because, from Pop's field, I repeat, many can live, not just those people who are directly focused and have nothing else to do but deal with agriculture, agriculture, eventually livestock. So thank you, on behalf of the Commission, for showing us that trust and I think we did this the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27917	Thank you too, Slavko, and the members of the Commission. And, one intervention, or correction, is not by chance chosen by you and by circumstances, but by purpose, knowing that you will do it correctly; no, no, you are not chosen by accident. Please, Mr. Šaraba's been waiting here all day, he has a special interest in this item of the agenda and I've agreed to allow him to address it. Here you go, Mr. Šarab. I hope you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, therefore, I thank you for the opportunity I have received to address the House of Representatives and to say that it is a very high-quality material that the Commission has done. The material that will allow for the next period of co-operation that exists between the electricity companies in this area, therefore between the hydropower plants in Trebišnica and the Capljina Hydropower Plant, to be stepped up and advanced and that those events that have been so far, which are therefore these floods that initiated the formation of this commission, are reduced to a far smaller measure or completely eliminated. Therefore, the conclusions should allow for electricity facilities, i.e. these electricity companies, to establish and improve the existing co-operation that exists at this time, but through these conclusions they will be greatly strengthened and allow the damages that occurred this past year to be reduced to a minimum measure or eliminated. I have spoken to people in the energy sector in Trebinjua and they are completely in agreement with these conclusions, with the view that the conclusion of number 1 in the 90-day section should be amended as it relates to the supply of equipment. Therefore, power companies and hydropower plants in Trebišnica are obliged to carry out the supply of equipment to measure the flow of water. Since the supply of this equipment takes a longer period of 72 years, people in the energy sector consider it a realistic deadline by the end of the year, when the purchase of this equipment to be installed, installed, measured water flow and exchanged information on the basis of the measurements to be made with that equipment. So their proposal, which I am telling you here, is that this 90-day deadline in conclusion number 1 is replaced by the deadline by the end of the year and that people in that time are carrying out the purchase of the equipment, are being installed and, of course, carry out appropriate training and start measuring the information that will be supplied to all energy facilities that are interested in it and, of course, who are looking for it. Therefore, the proposal is to change the conclusion number 1 in this section and to bind it to the deadline that will be available by the end of the year, which is related to the purchases, because in that period, the acquisition of this equipment which is very important and important and will enable the realization of this conclusion to be carried out, which is, in any case, the most significant of all these conclusions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27919	I've noted, Mr. Šarab, what you're proposing, I just don't know if the President of the Commission gives consent and approval to this. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27920	I've never considered myself entitled to decide anything by myself, but here, I've consulted with colleagues who are close here. So, if that's not possible, I was just saying what is possible, to do in 90 days, I can, I don't know, make that conclusion; that's why this rational proposal that we can accept by the new year, buy that equipment and mount it and do it. I can say in five days, but if he won't be able to buy by the new year, what will I conclude? Let's do what we can do. So, on behalf of the Commission and my colleagues who I immediately consulted, this can be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27921	Thank you. Let's move on, item 15. I'm out of logs. Point 15. Ad. 15. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Serb people (Rang-list of candidates of the Regulatory Agency for Communications) The procedure for selecting a new member was implemented in accordance with the Law on Public TV Service of BiH and a new member of the Serb people is elected for a period of four years. You got a 73-list. So on the list are Aleksandar Bogdanić, Zoran Popović, Dijana Račić and Nikola Vukolić. You've reached the opinion of the committee in charge who's fully supported the rank-list. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate on item 15. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27928	I'm sorry, intervention. I don't know if the Professional Service shared my conclusion that was tied up immediately after the vote of this point? What happened to this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27929	Slavko, it's just this request now, so when there's a debate, we'll consider that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27930	There was a time when there was a second point...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27931	Well, it is, but now it's just a procedure. Slavko, it's just a procedure. All right, let's go to point four. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination (second reading). So we have an amendment to Mirjana Malić. We plead first on this amendment. Prepare to vote on the amandman. Vote now! 34 "for" (25 Federation, nine RS). So, the amandman was given both the general and the entity majority, and was adopted. Now we're going to vote on the law itself. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 "for" (25 Federation, 10 RS). I agree that we have passed the Proposed Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, including the Amendment. Azra, come in. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27932	First, the chairman, I apologize to you, too, to the members of the College and my fellow Members and fellow Members for not responding in time, during the debate, but my remark is more technical. 76 In fact, the Commission's record found that this amendment was adopted in which there is a single structure that represents, well, here I don't know, I think it would go, although let's say a little bit to the shame of this Parliament. Namely, it's about the next one. The law does not prejudge the provisions and conditions laid down in international agreements and agreements with religious confesions and then the text goes on. Religious confessions, I think a better structure here would be: religious institutions. So it's a technical mistake, I treat her that way. Well, here's what I'm telling the College may be preparing, before the House of Nations, some correction of this species or similar species that would be more appropriate for what the spirit of the amanadman himself is. Here, if you agree, we can vote on this amendment immediately. Instead of a religious confession to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27933	Well, we can accept the College as a technical repair, so this notion of religious confession, let's see if it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27934	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27935	I, Slavko, am not very skilled here but religious institutions or anything. So you could think about religious institutions. We're going to consult the promoter to see what the lecturer thought. Here, please know, I'll let you know what we've done. Thank you very much, but anyway, this law has been passed. Let's go to point 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH (Second Reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 36 votes "yes" (27 Federation, nine RS). The law has also received a general and entity majority and I agree that a deposit insurance law has been adopted in banks, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on deposit insurance in banks. We're going to point six. Proposal for a law on mine action in BiH (first reading). You heard the argument. So we're voting on the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 votes "for " (18 Federation, seven RS). I find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority, and was adopted in the first reading. 77 Let's go to point 7. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the National Anthem of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 votes "yes" (27 Federation, two RS). Post-adjustment within three days. Let's move on. Point 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 votes "yes" (20 Federation, nine RS). I find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority, and was adopted in the first reading. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What is it, a listing, is it? We're going to point 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 "for" (24 Federation, nine RS). I agree that we adopted the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions in the first reading. Here we have a proposal for a conclusion proposed by MP Rifat Dolić: 'It is binding that, within 30 days, the Council of Ministers adopts a programme for saving and rationalising public spending in BiH institutions, for a greater contribution to the overall rationalisation of public spending, a fairer distribution of burdens of restrictions in the social sector, and maintaining and increasing the level of incentives for agriculture, entrepreneurship and other instruments of combating the crisis and recession in BiH.' This conclusion would be good for this debate about Slavko Jovičić's initiative, but here's to make it clear. Vote now! 31 "for" (26 Federation, five RS). 78 So, the proposal for a conclusion was both given to the general and entity majority, and adopted. Let's go, point 10. Statement on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposers: Ekrem Ajanović, Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (21 Federation, two RS). No entity majority, later alignment. Ramsia, there's something that needs to be turned down. We haven't agreed yet, we haven't. Let's move on, point 11. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Border Police Act. We're voting on the report, remember I said things were consistent. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 "for" (26 Federation, nine RS). I agree that we adopted a report on the alignment of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Border Police Act. Let's go to point 12. The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2008. In accordance with Article 20. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Report is being made known. Prepare to make a statement about receiving knowledge. Vote now! 30 votes "yes" (22 Federation, 8 RS). We have both a general and an entity majority, and we have received the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Point 13. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. Seven. 2008 to 31. 12. 2008 So we are voting on the Report, with the Commission's opinion proposing changes to the level of participation in Liberia, Sudan and Cyprus. So to comply with the already approved level of participation for the current 2009 year, and to vote in the package and to decide what I read. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (24 Federation, 10 RS). I find that the report has both received the general and entity majority, and has been adopted. Let's go to point 14. Information on floods in Popo's field, on the Krupa River and the Hut mud area, with the Commission's opinion on foreign trade and customs. Information from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is being received from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Voting on receiving 79 Information to know and on the Commission's opinion, with a final opinion, with a change of deadline in conclusion of No 1, instead of 90 days to stand until the end of 2009. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 36 votes "yes" (26 Federation, 10 RS), without the vote "against", without "abstained". So we received information, the Commission's opinion, the conclusions in the Opinion and this amendment to the deadline for implementation. Let's go to point 15. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Serb people (Rang-list of candidates of the Regulatory Agency for Communications). We're voting on appointing. So let's take it in a row. First we vote on candidate number one. Aleksandar Bogdanić. If he gets most, he doesn't vote any further; if he doesn't, then we'll take it in a row. So, please prepare for the vote. Vote now! We're voting on the first one on the rank list. 27 votes "yes" (22 Federation, five RS). I find that Mr. Bogdanić has been elected. Let's move on. What's the problem, Slavko? All right, let's move on. Point 16. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Permanent Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. Don't get confused here. Prepare to vote. Novaković and Alajbegović were proposed. Vote now! 30 votes "yes" (21 Federation, nine RS). I find that the House of Representatives has elected a Permanent delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly of its two members, which is part of this delegation. Let's go to point 17. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's proposal to include the point in the agenda of the House's session: "A consideration of the conclusions on the harmfulness of the anti-Dayton and unilateral action of the president of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadić in the state of BiH". We vote in the second round. Please prepare, we have not reached agreement. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (22 Federation, one RS). We don't have a third of the votes "against" from any entity. I agree that Denis Bećirović's proposal for inclusion in the session's agenda was adopted. We're going to point 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of Parliamentarians Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić to discuss at the House's meeting on the subject: 'Achieved level of implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH'. It's also an initiative. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27937	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27938	Business intervention? I don't know, Milorad, we just got it when we vote, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27939	I just wanted to say that this is one of the rare cases when we voted to be a part of the agenda and I suggest that this is now being discussed. We had materials to finish that agenda. There's no need to leave it for next session's agenda, because that's how it's done. I think it's a business office to open a debate now similar to when it's adopted by 127. The Rules of Procedure and when we vote in the second round, the debate opens, we discuss the law and we vote on the law. I think we should open the debate now. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27940	It's not about the law. Here's the word... I don't know which way you'd be and conduct the debate now and what materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27941	We've got plenty of time now, five hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27942	As far as I'm concerned,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27943	You wanted to discuss it, we're ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27944	Please let me finish the vote on this agenda, and then we'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27945	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27946	Oh, I'll sit down, drago, up here by 12, it's no problem, I'll finish the vote and we'll sit down and we'll agree to schedule the next session immediately tonight, tonight, tonight. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27947	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27948	Well, we'll talk, we'll keep going. We'll discuss everything we say and discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27949	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27950	Please, what's the mood, are you ready to stay after the vote to discuss this agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27951	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27952	So we're talking, please, drago, so let me finish this session. So this initiative wasn't about this session. There was a procedure and she ended up in this session and I don't see any problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27953	The man has also asked on the previous to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27954	Well, he did, but we were conducting the procedure, and he didn't get the support on the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27955	And now he's got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27956	So now he's got how he got, so let me finish the session of this one. You see, now you've made me in the middle of a voting debate. Here you go, Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27957	Chairman, we're... 82 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27958	Please complete the vote on all points of the agenda. Please sit down, Azra. Please, let's go to point 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of Parliamentarians Remzija Kadrić and Adem Huskić to discuss at the House's meeting on the subject: 'Achieved level of implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH'. We vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 "for" (27 Federation, two RS). There are no thirds of the votes "against" from any entity, this initiative has been adopted to include it in the agenda. And we have point 19. Giving consent to ratification, therefore, according to that review we had on the agenda. Now let's make a deal, shall we vote one by one or shall we vote in the package? [[Common discussion]] What one by one, sick, Mehmede? Please let Dom know if we're voting in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 37 votes "yes" (27 Federation, 10 RS). So we have both a general and an entity majority and we decided to make a statement about granting consent to ratification in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 37 "for" (Federation 27, RS 10). So we gave consent to ratification at point 19(a) to (p). Now, please, so we have a proposal to discuss today, and does that apply to this second point of the Remzija Kadrić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27960	This is an initiative, it's a difference. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27961	Okay, the difference is, so it is proposed to discuss the agenda point immediately... proposed by Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here, I'm asking you. Now, here you go, here you go, now can do anything. Here you go, Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27962	Chairman, we today... after three hours of debate adopted the agenda. And we were working on that agenda. The agenda point is as formulated as it stands here. So today after this session, we can only open a new session. We can't change the agenda now, so open the debate, etc. I'm asking that we take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27963	So that's a model, if we agree, and that's a model, if we agree to set up the 58th session with that agenda point. It's no problem. I don't mind. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27964	I disagree with that interpretation, Mr. Chairman. A moment ago, someone said what a prerequisite it is when we talk about procedures. It's exactly the same situation, if we vote 127, we're going to work. We can't say it stays that way. Here was a prerequisite, you had time to agree before. You could have informed us this morning that we were voting on it and that we had it in front of us. This was just a prerequisite for discussion. We removed that condition, put it on the agenda and nothing else. It doesn't say here that when this is done, it'll be on the next one, and in others it says so. You have agenda points where we're precise, clear. We've removed that precondition now so we can conduct the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27965	Nice to meet you. For today's session, we've filed a report, our agreement report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27966	And did you finish discussing this point? No, you're just a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27967	Home decided to dot
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27968	Open it, we're opening it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27969	Well, it's not opening today. Here you go, Jozo. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27970	So please!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27971	I don't mind if I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27972	We've always done that before. If there's no willingness to open it, that's what to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27973	As far as I'm concerned, I'm in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27974	We voted, please, to be able to work now, we have consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27975	As far as I'm concerned, I absolutely don't mind. Let's hear the others. Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27976	Mr. Chairman, my personal opinion is that conditions have been created that we are discussing this item of the agenda, unless, as I say, the Proposer has matured from last time to today to withdraw.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27977	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27978	Mr. Bešlagić, I'd like you to listen very carefully. I'm not saying this for no reason. I would personally like to open another absurd debate in this house. I stress: to open another absurd debate in this home. That she's absurd and the fact that many colleagues, come on, aren't many, but almost on the fingers of one hand, the Bošnjak, said they thought, and last time they thought this was absurd but given the echo in public, they'd have to support her. That this is true, please allow, many here swear, and it says in the Dayton Peace Agreement that the High Representative is the ultimate authority of the interpretation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I want to remind you of the statement by the current High Representative, please allow me, it's very serious, I want to give you the grounds to give up an absurd debate. And instead of thanking me, you won't let me finish thinking. I will quote to you the High Representative: "Serbian President Boris Tadić's statements on BiH are moderately and optimistically intonated." So here's the top interpreter. Is it Dayton or 85 not Dayton, then what are we going to discuss? If this isn't enough for you, gentlemen, I have an argument for this absurd political story, a story in which politicians fight this people. And if that were the case, take only the Daily Avaz: the same day two comments from journalists who are professional and look parallel to what politicians say. So, I've helped you give up an absurd debate that's gonna drag us away and we're going to debate for a long time, and it's better if we're done today, even if the rest of us are up to 8 hours, than we're going to spoil the next session when it's going to be at the beginning and I know that a lot of people here are expecting it, because there's the media, they want to talk to those who are going to vote for them, and what consequences are there among those who vote for all of us, nobody cares about it, or wonders about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27979	Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27980	Well, I would ask my colleague Dokić to try not to serve such transparent flossules and try to be a little principled and credible, and he is not credible today in this House because this day before this point of the agenda, he refused that this country has an anthem text after 15 years of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And now you're telling a story about credibility and something.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27981	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27982	It's got something to do with everything we're talking about. And as for whether this idea was matured or not, Mr. Dokić, respect this parliament, he voted as he voted and agreed that this should be the point of the agenda. Do not call without being able to say the name and last name of some people, for we know what it is and what policy it is. So my proposal, given that I suggested it, is here, that this be the point of the 56th session. It's not included in the 56th session. It doesn't say here that it has to be the point of the 57th session. Mr. Belkić and we are all today, yes, you put the agenda on the agenda, today we were just making a statement about whether it would be in the agenda or not. When it is, this house will decide again at the end of the vote. As far as I'm concerned, I'm ready, I've got some material here to open up this debate, although I'm more inclined to open a story like this at the next session than I am now. But, I repeat, I'm ready to discuss it now, and very argumentatively and responsibly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27983	Well, here it goes, going its course. Slavko Jovičić. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27984	Dear Chairman, I am truly sorry that you did not accept my proposal last time to vote and cancel Mr Tadić's visit to Banja Luka. What are we gonna do, people? The man was, he was gone, he forgot more that he was doing damage!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27985	You didn't write.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27986	Here, if he had done BiH harm, I would have criticized him. So please nice, we have countless visits. Here, came Stipe Mesić to Tuzla, I hailed, which bothers me that he came. And I didn't mention at all what he was, but I read in the paper to see if he said anything against the Srbin. Luck isn't. That's good. Thanks for the visit. Sanader's been to Mostar countless times, which bothers me that a man is coming. So this Tadić came and said, "I support the full integrity of BiH." So what else was he supposed to say? What did he do, what damage? And I suggested let's invite him to Parliament to come here and talk to us. A man will come, but no one from Sarajevo will go to Belgrade. And it should be there... a visit, so make these neighbourly, friendly and good relationships. What we're going to fight more. Here, whatever we vote today, here's to vote that we condemn Tadić, if we had that mandate to replace him, what we're going to get. We're just making things more complicated for ourselves. I'm telling you honestly if he had said something against BiH, and I would have stood up, people, I'd say this is my country. Afirmish RS, but don't, rich, touch BiH. But it didn't work either. He said I'm giving support, there's a stenogram of what the man said, the media published, nothing ugly said. Well, the fact that he may not have contacted some foreign ministry, it's some other procedure. Now you need to see how that worked. But we're really complicated, people, the situation, while today maybe 500, 1,000, 5,000 people strike somewhere. We'll catch up with stories we won't get anything from in the end. Here, we cancel Tadić Banja Luka's visit. What do we get? Can we do that? We can't. Come on, people, something useful to do more for this people. As far as we're concerned, it doesn't matter whether we discuss it today or at the next session. This is a useless subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27987	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27988	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27989	Mr. Chairman, this parliament may actually decide to continue a new session, to discuss what you want, but it must also be the decision-making procedure. In the same way that it is now required to open the debate on the initiative of colleagues Bećirović, we could do the same now, I could ask the question, I want the debate to continue on the topic of the initiative of colleagues Kadrić and Huskić, because we have established the inclusion by the same procedure. _________(?) 87 [[no microphone turned on]] So let's just say if we're going to continue the work by 10 o'clock and discuss some other agendas. So, business intervention refers to this, Mr. Chairman, that there is no controversy and replica of this, but to focus whether or not we're going to work on it. And the procedure for further work is known. This home decides what, first of all, it will continue to do and what it will put into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27991	Another business intervention, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27992	Business intervention is in the sense that the difference between the 17th and the 18th points is in large part, that last time for the initiative Mr. Kadrić sought there was no material at all. We are today that initiative, it has passed, adopted that this material of the College tries to obtain and that in some due time it is placed on the agenda. This is the difference from the point Mr Bećirović suggested where the material was said to have and that we should discuss it. Here, now the material has, it's your turn to clean up. What's the problem? The problem is the one that the SDP has, which is that it can only talk from 10 to 11 this day, and for all the rest of the days, this parliament is no longer serving him for anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27993	Let's move on. Branko Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27994	Well, Mr. Chairman, I've been looking for a line before, but I didn't insist, I wanted to answer a few, really,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27995	He's got everything. Jozo, he's got everything, just patience. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27996	...a flat-rate and non-principle grade that has nothing to do with the agenda point that is now current. I didn't say this shouldn't be discussed. I am ready to argue immediately, but I only appealed to reason, that today an unreasonable debate will be freed which will have many more negative messages looking at BiH's citizenship as a whole, but which will be of any benefit, there will be no harm at all, and there will be great damage. But if the point stays, there are conditions to open the debate today and then we'll discuss it, and we have the materials for it. counterpart Živković was absolutely right when he made the difference between these two points. This second point, here's which I supported and I think it's an excellent initiative, this House 88 really needs to deal with the question, here, to what extent the Dayton Peace Agreement was implemented. One's talking like this, the other's talking like this. And that's the thing that can have long-term positive effects on the political situation in BiH. In the end, here I am now on Beqirovic's side, the effect of the discussion of Tadic's visit 15 days ago – in 15 days, it's funny to talk then. Everyone has forgotten today, and in 15 days, they will forget. Come on, here we are, who opposed it, we opposed it not because there are arguments, but because it's purely politicizing, bringing in discord, mistrust, intolerance among citizens, which is why we were against it. But by the time it's gotten there, we're ready to discuss it. Maybe we should take a 10-15 minute break, get the proposer ready if he hasn't prepared himself, give an opening statement, and we'll agree not to spend too much time, so we'll finish this session and draw those crucial conclusions that will be very important to our voters.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27997	Here's the debate. Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27998	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I think we've actually come to terms with what the College members couldn't agree on. And on that basis, we have absorbed this item of the agenda today and left it to be placed on the agenda of some next session. And, by my judgment, this... today's House of Representatives session is over and remains to discuss this in another term. And as for the debaters whether it will cause positive or negative consequences, no one can predict it, because there is no telling what the result will be, after all. Because, Mr. Professor, if it were a result that there was no harmful action, then it could be from some people who today feel that there will be harmful consequences that it turns out to be positive what this discussion has done, and it may be different. That's true. However, if it is true that already 10 Bošnjak have said that, five actually Bošnjak said there are no adverse consequences and they do not decide for themselves, so if five more Hrvat and Srbin decide, it turns out that even without other Bošnjak, they can be obtained because they will have an entity majority. And that's why I think we're done with this session, and I suggest we stop and put this in the next agenda that's coming, actually, to work on how the Rules of Procedure is scheduled. Here is a clear title of the agenda, a statement of, in fact, an attempt to agree, or agreement of the College that has not been reached, and we voted for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u27999	But here, we could turn this into 58th and it's all okay. and by the Rules of Procedure, etc. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28000	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28001	Well, here, Branko, then stay on the lines. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28002	Chairman, thank you for your understanding and patience, I greatly appreciate that. I just want to say one more sentence. Here it is said, I will quote: "A consideration of the damages of the anti-Dayton and unilateral action of the president of the Republic of Serbia" means anti-Daytonic. I am again quoting the high representative who said: "Serbian President Boris Tadić's statements on BiH are with a moderate attitude and optimistic intonation. This assembly is not the ultimate authority of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Therefore, those who swear so much, here I am one of those who considers that the High Representative and the Office of the High Representative have long done their job and that it is better to let us agree on our own, but here are those who swear to the need of a high representative, who is the ultimate authority, after such a statement as we will discuss. Here, I'm asking you that. And I won't answer again. If there's any discussion today, I'm going to debate more deeply, if it's next time, even more extensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28003	Replica, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28004	Well, I didn't want to replicate it, but when a man dares. When he needs it, he calls a high representative and says authority. When we don't need him, then he tells us what we need the High Representative to do and then he says we'll adopt the decision the RS made, we'll respect that, as far as we're concerned by the High Representative. Make up your mind once whether you're for the High Representative or against the High Representative that we know how I'm going to treat you. I'm sick of demagogy. It's either for or against. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28005	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28006	May I, Mr. Selima, have my word, may I? No, no, I'm waiting for you to finish. Mr. Chairman, I suggest that unless there's a debate today on this agenda point and it's on the next one... and I wouldn't suggest to anyone at all that this point should be removed from the agenda. On the contrary, it should be because it is started. There's something to say. Don't think there's nothing to say on one side, there's something else. But I'm proposing to the College, so it doesn't spoil the next and the next agenda that's serious, to put that point in the end, to be the last item of the agenda, and let them go by 12 hours, we'll talk about it, there's no cameras, it probably won't fit someone, so maybe they'll cut it short. So my suggestion is that this agenda item in the next assembly, if there is no debate now, be the last. Thank you very much. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-08-0.u28007	I don't have any more reports. And here, we've had a discussion. I have no intention of including this agenda item in today's session and this session is over. Here, we apologized, we'll see where we're going and when we put it. The following is particularly common, etc. The seat's finished at 5:15.
