ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5176	I'm asking the MPs to take their positions, we'll start working. I hope the director's ready... Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, ministers, representatives of the international community, gentlemen of the media, I warmly welcome you all and open the 33rd session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Just to let you know that the session, right now, is attended by 14 representatives from all three clubs. The missing Master Alma Čolo, who will join during... today's work of the House of Peoples. For the 33rd session, I propose the next amended 1. Answer the... envoy's questions and questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 32nd session of the House of Peoples; 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH, with the Joint Defence and Security Commission Report; 5. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement (Second Reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Anthem of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety in BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics; 13. Proposal for a law on mine action in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers; 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2008; 16. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. Seven. 2008 to 31. 12. 2008; 17. Impact review report on the subject of "the employment process of civil servants in the institutions of BiH" (reporter Office for the Auditing of BiH Institutions); 18. Report on BHRT's work for 2008 and the BiH Radio-Television Management Board (BHRT) for 2007 and 2008; 19. Report on BHRT's financial operations for 2008, with a review of the correction of BHRT's financial reports for 2007 and 2008; 20. The appointment of the chairman, vice-president and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure, the proposal of the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals; 21. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public Television Service of BiH from the Serb people (Candidate rank of Regulatory Agency for Communications), with the Opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections; 22. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 23. BiH Human Rights Special Report on Women's Appeals is entitled to salary allowances during maternity leave; 24. Final proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 185 (1) of the Law on the Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (“Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 8805); 25. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members in the joint committees of both houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 26. ... Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 27. Granting consent to ratify the Agreement establishing a Regional School for Public Administration (RESPA); 28. Granting consent to ratify the Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters; 29. Granting consent to ratify the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context – Espoo (Finland), 25 February 1991; 30. Giving consent to ratifying the 1993 Convention on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents, issue 174, and Recommendations on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents, No. 181 of 1993, International Labour Organisation; 3 31. Giving consent to ratifying the Recommendation to create jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, number 189 of 1998, International Labour Organisation; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Cooperative Promotion Recommendation, No. 193 of 2002, International Labour Organisation; 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Recommendation relating to the list of occupational diseases, number 194 of 2002, International Labour Organisation; 34. Giving consent to ratifying the 2004 Recommendation on the development of human potential, education, training and continuous improvement, number 195, the International Labour Organisation and 35. Giving consent to ratifying the 2006 Work Relations Recommendation, No. 198 of the International Labour Organisation. This is a harmonised amended agenda of the House of Peoples Colleges. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed representatives of public information funds, so I propose that item 19 be removed from the agenda, which is the 2008 report on BHTV's financial operations, with a proposal for a correction of financial reports for 2007 and 2008. The reason for this proposal is this: BHTV's Management Board two days ago, so 21.7, adopted the 2008 audit report on BHTV's financial operations. So, exactly what we, members of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, have on several occasions asked the Management Board to carry out an audit and to determine what it has referred to for a longer period of time, asking that certain corrections be made in the Financial Report on Business... So, since this report has been adopted, since it was sent here to Parliament yesterday, and in anticipation of this report coming here today or the next days before us, I believe that this Financial Business Report is being downloaded at this time from the agenda, we wait to get this audit report, consider it on the Commission, I suppose we will have some conclusions, and after that we will consider all of this together in the package and come up with the concrete solutions that are needed at this point. I believe that we all know that certain shifts have been made in BHTV... and that this observation is only in the direction that the BHTV situation is being improved in the coming time... and that, in the end, BHTV, as it is said, comes out on the green branch. So my proposal is to take this point down, look at the audit report and then put it on the agenda. Thank you, Chairman. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5179	Thank you very much. I won't, because I only have to add to your proposal to violate Article 58. Rules of Procedure. This is a mandatory agenda item that has passed the relevant commission and we cannot take it off the agenda. Anybody else want a word? We're done arguing. Mr. Šarab, we will not violate the Rules of Procedure. Just read article 58. The Rules of Procedure, which reads: 'The College shall include in the agenda drafts of the laws and reports of the committees and any other item which is mandatory, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure'. And the item(2) says, "It is the mandatory point that has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or if it is a unanimous decision that requires the House's commission." So it doesn't fit your story in Article 58. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5180	So obviously we don't understand each other, Mr. Chairman. So I didn't ask her to take off her clothes and not consider herself at all. So new details and new facts appeared in the meantime. So certain circumstances have arisen that suggest that it would be reasonable and logical to stop considering until we can see the new circumstances that have arisen. So I ask only that we consider this report far more concrete and far better than now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5181	Please, I'm going to warn you about one more thing, you're not reading the Rules of Procedure, I beg you don't run a promotion as an opposition party in our home, because we are the clubs of the people. We must respect the Rules of Procedure. In its second sentence, the following Article 59 of our Rules of Procedure says: ‘Ignoring the mandatory points referred to in Article 58(2) of this Rules of Procedure is not permitted.’ You're a lawyer and please respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm concluding a debate on this issue, because it's counter-business. Does anyone else have anything to add to the proposed agenda? If he doesn't, I'm saying it's in accordance with Article 60. (as the agenda of the House of Peoples has been agreed) we have established agenda for today's session of the House of Peoples. 5 And we move on to point 1, that's, "Ad." 1. Answers to MPs or envoys' questions Next time, Mr. Šarab, get ready and read the Good Rules of Procedure. There was no answer to the envoy's questions. I'm asking if there are any new questions. The first Mr. Koprivica took off, please. Well, Šaraba, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5183	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome present colleagues, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, guests. I have one question which I refer to the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and the question is: 'Is it true that the goods taken away at the BiH border crossings are going down in the warehouses of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, although its value exceeds, according to some information, the amount of 50 million marks? How many in the past five years has the Directorate of indirect care held auctions on which confiscated goods were sold... (it is about goods taken away in customs infringement proceedings). Finally, the question: Is it intended to systematically approach this issue through the possible adoption of a special law or sublegal act that would regulate this issue?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5184	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, before I read my delegate question, I will appeal to the Council of Ministers to a number of delegate issues that I have not received an answer to so far. I expect that during this summer period some of these answers will end and that I will get them here, I suppose, in September. So, I refer my delegate question to the BiH Ministry of Defence, the minister's hand, and the question is, "When will the Defence Minister adopt the BiH Armed Forces Regulations? 6 to Article 2. The BiH Defence Act is defined as BiH Armed Forces consisting of generations organised under the regiment system and there are three infantry regiments responsible for the military heritage and identity of the units and peoples from which they originate. Article 6 The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH has been found that the Colonels of Heritage Identity and Military Heritage Units of the Constitutional Peoples, the RS Army, the Army of BiH and the Croatian Defence Council, since the rule has long been prepared and that its adoption is necessary in order to enable the resolution of the solutions provided for in those legislations that I have mentioned and prevented future negative and very bad events, such as those of the other day when the monuments of killed RS military fighters were removed in Banja Luka.' I'm asking the Minister that question, and I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5186	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5187	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, esteemed guests, here, I've been asking a question that I've been trying to get an answer to for ten months. So, at the 21st session of the House of Peoples of 17. Nine. In 2008, my Delegative Initiative was adopted to regulate the legal status of the "Official Journal of BiH" and three conclusions were adopted in the framework of this initiative: 1. The Home of the People is in charge of the Council of Ministers to submit a bill within 60 days to the parliamentary procedure that would finally resolve the legal status of the "Official Journal of BiH". 2. The people's home is asked by the Council of Ministers to organise "the Official Journal of BiH" as a new institution to finance BiH's budget, and all the income achieved by the institution to go to the benefit of the Budget of BiH. 3. The people's home is asking the BiH Institutions' Audit Office to carry out an audit of the "Operation List of BiH" for 2007. Since, in the meantime, it has been 10 months since the initiative was launched, please, in this case, the Council of Ministers chair to answer me: '1. What has the Council of Ministers done to regulate the legal status of the "Official List of BiH"? 2. When will the legislative proposal to regulate the legal status of the "Official Journal of BiH" be referred to the parliamentary procedure?' Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5188	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there are any further questions. I'm closing this point. We're going to point two, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 32nd session I'm opening a debate on the record. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement for the 32nd session. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 32nd session. Point 3 is Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a report from this committee on the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act of goods and services of strategic importance for BiH's security. Unfortunately, this law did not receive a positive assessment on the Joint Commission. We're in a bit of a weird situation right now. We have him adopted in the House of Representatives, and I think it would be really bad for this law to end its journey to the House of Peoples and start again, to renew the full procedure and wait for that law. That's what I'm saying... because of the exceptional importance of this law, because one of those is why so many stories have been opened in the state of BiH. That is why I propose, if possible (and business is) not to accept the Joint Commission Report, that we reject the Commission's report. By doing so, we automatically return the law to this commission. I believe, because in the end, I am running that commission, which is why I have to believe, that we have and that we can find both reasons and opportunities and strength, after all, but also a healthy mind to end this law the way it has to end as a law. That's my proposal, not only mine, I think, and I see also the reactions of colleagues who are members of this committee that he should not finish his journey here, that he should be returned to this commission and that at the next session of the House we adopt him. You plead on that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5193	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. So, I open the debate and I give my word to Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5194	So, we tried to finish this job at the last session of the Defence and Security Commission and there were really a lot of articles in the paper that were incorrect, untrue, from the story that it was one of the European laws, and this is not a law that is a condition for a visa-free regime. So it's the law we already have, these were supposed to be some improvements. I respected that intention Mr. Ivanic made last time to try something to make a deal. I thought we could make a deal with those things where the department's competent to support us. And if this ministry thinks it's already done, then I really don't see a reason if it's no principled reason not to accept it. I think that maybe the law would be different (of these three amendments, so one was accepted, two were completely rejected) and that it was more than one terrible negative attitude by Mr Džaferović, who practically made this conclusion of the Joint Commission the way it is. I still believe that there is a willingness – so what is written here is what is already being done and what the competent ministry that is proposing the law accepts – that it can get a pass on both in this commission and in this home. And so I'd like to thank my Zrn for this, this one more try, and we'll see how this ends.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rančić. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I would like to say a few words about the procedure of this law as he had his travels through Parliament and through the competent authorities, and I was offered by my colleague, Majkić, who tried again by calling one name, indirectly or directly, to tell me who is responsible for this state of the law. In fact, this law was passed by the Council of Ministers (we know which ministers were sitting there) and there were no problems, it went through a regular procedure and all of us who were interested in the competent commission and the Constitutional Commission, but therefore all MPs and delegates of the whole Parliament could submit amendments to this law. At the last session, when we made concessions to my colleague Majkić and his colleagues from the SNSD, in the first row, and here we can tell the entire Club of delegates of the Serbian people, and then Džaferović was named as the culprit why here they cannot support this law, saying that Džaferović, who has been prevented from getting a positive opinion on this law, in a way that his amendments that he made and, when they came to the turn of the amendment of some other colleagues, were not supported by him or by other colleagues. Of course, neither what is said nor what is said, and here and now, it is not true, because the amendments of his colleagues to Džaferović are not personal, as he said in the sense that he is the author, but it is 10 amendments which he has been asked of the restoring ministry to submit and to correct the text of the law and are therefore accepted, because it was about the repair of the law, until the other amendments were accepted because we believe that they again question the jurisdiction and the state ministry's resolution, whether, and the entire Council of Ministers, in relation to the competences of the entity and possibly Brcko District. I would like to say that this allegation, so on the alleged guilt of my colleague Džaferović, is not true and because after the amendments were not adopted on the Defence and Security Commission, all colleagues who had their amendments and who were not accepted on this committee and wanted to defend them again -- could have invested them in defending them at the House. A kolegica, Majkić, who was authorised or a colleague of Zoran Koprivica, who was an amendment, did not take advantage of this business opportunity, and are willing to blame the other. After we made a concession, we reconsidered the law and we made an effort and accepted one of the three amendments that my colleague Majkić insisted on, we were ready to accept some more amendments, but she gave up these amendments and therefore her behavior in a way or it would be as I say or there will be no law, of course, not acceptable. And in the end, it is not acceptable to conduct such activities and to act accordingly, it is not correct, it is not collegiate, and to blame others for the state of the law, i.e. the possible failure of the law. So, I agree with my colleague Branko Zrn's proposal, our chairman of the Defence and Security Commission, that our respected colleagues and fellow delegates do not accept the Commission's negative report and return the law to the procedure before this committee, to give us one more chance to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5197	Thank you very much. We heard, and if there's anyone else we need to develop the story... Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Council of Ministers and others present at this session. I have no intention of spreading the debate, but I have a need to manifest myself in relation to this law from another angle of observation. So, it won't be much use to us today to tell us who is responsible and whose name to mention in this context won't help us much, because I just want to remind myself and everyone else that this law is one of the conditions for easing the visa regime for BiH citizens, and we all know (well, Mrs. Majkić spins her head) doesn't have to be an express condition, but it is one of the moves that manifests the political will to go in the European direction, and we all know that these days BiH is burning in a certain way because of leaving out of the circle of countries that are being made easier and comes to certain and qualifications and quantifications that are not useful to this country or to us all here. 11 Therefore, the responsibility of the BiH Parliament is as a legislator, regardless of whose names we have been dealing with here in one way or another. And in that sense, I want to, in order to show the spirit and good intentions, support the proposal that the chairman of the Joint Committee, Mr Rančić, supported and, as Mrs Majkić, also in his debate, to return this to the Committee, to reject their negative opinion, to get the law and to resolve it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5199	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Rajić. Is there anyone else who needs it? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement, first of all, the Joint Commission report. So we've got a Joint Commission report that's negative. And we've received a proposal from the President of the Committee to reject this report and return it to the Committee, so to re-determination of this act. We must first and foremost declare the Joint Committee's report. It's negative, it'd be good not to accept this so we can get it back. And I'm now asking who's in favour of supporting this committee's negative opinion. Is there anyone who is "for" to support this and that this law falls. So who is “against ”? We must respect the procedure, so we have rejected the negative position and I beg you, therefore, we ourselves must decide what to do next. So, I ask you now to accept Mr. Zrn's proposal to return this law to the Joint Committee for a re-determination, with a request to make every effort to reach a consensus and make this law - so make a consensus about these controversial amendments - that we can practically win this law in the House of Peoples. Who's "for" to get this commission back to work? Is someone "against"? "Contained"? So we unanimously determined to return to the Joint Commission for re-determination. We're going to point 5, that's ad. 5. Proposal for a public procurement law It's about another reading. The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. You've reached the Committee's report. The commission accepted 33 amendments, which were also accepted by the House of Representatives. 12 I ask Mrs. Majkić, therefore, as chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget, to bring us into the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5201	So, as is known, the Commission discussed in the second reading and in the second reading of the amendment was invested by Mr Koprivica and Mr Rančić. You have here a proposal for all amendments. Finally, most of the votes were accepted by the draft law on BiH's procurement, with amendments adopted, and found the law necessary, and proposed that its adoption be passed to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. That is the Commission's position. I, as the chairman of the Commission, am the Commission's first position, and then I want to make a personal point. Since the three amendments from the entire set of amendments Mr. Koprivica has submitted, which are three key amendments that are very important to us coming from the RS, since none of them are, so even those three amendments are not accepted, we will not be able to support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5202	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Majkić. Is there a need, does any of the motions have the need from the Council of Ministers to talk about this? There isn't. If no one answers their word, I'm the one who concludes the debate. Excuse me, Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5203	So, here is a brief, same situation as.../microphone briefly excluded/... in the procedure of the amendment law and the additions of the Public Procurement Act, which in the good part improved public procurement procedures in BiH, made it easier to apply in terms of those who were doing the purchases and those who offered those services, and we know that the colleague and the law did not support it, then she went with the proposal to go with the whole law. You know she suggested that the Council of Ministers make up the whole text of the Public Procurement Act. The Council of Ministers has made a proposal, we have the view that this law is in line with the European legislation on this area, and here we are again in the position that a colleague does not want to support such a law. The basic urgency is that our public procurement regulations need to unite this area, that they are in line with the directives of Europe, and the intensity of the colleague and its amendments is to divide this area, to create two agencies, two procedures, two processes, etc., etc. Here, that's why, unfortunately, we're not able to pass this law on public procurement. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5204	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. We'll put it on a statement, so the bill. Who's "for" the bill?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5205	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5206	Yeah, we're voting on the bill. The Commission gave a positive opinion. Who's "for" the bill? I find that 10 of the Federation has given its support to this law. Who Is “against ”? Three, five from RS. The law didn't pass. Let's get to the point... Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Yeah, there's no entity majority. I have to do it again. I'm asking if there's a consensus. There isn't. I have to repeat the second round. If it's the same result, the law is down. So who is “for ” this law? Who is “against ” this law? So we have five votes "against" from the RS entity and the law has not received support. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The commission accepted the bill in the proposed text and proposed that the House adopt the law with a proposal for legal and technical correction, and it refers to the fact that instead of calling for indent 10, the invitation to indent 12 stands. It's a slip, so we have a memo that came in and warned us about a mistake like this. The House of Representatives passed the law in the proposed text. I'm opening the debate. Miro, here you go. Mr. Jović. 14 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5208	: Thank you very much, Mr. President, welcoming you and the co-chairs, distinguished colleagues and all present to this session. I would like to thank the expert service of the Constitutional Commission, which was managed by the secretary, Dr Hasić, who saw that it was a mistake and that we can be aware of under technical error and that you said it was indeed done, because it was not followed by the legislator of the laws of all the six amendments and additions to this law, and therefore, I believe, there was such a mistake, because this was a proposal to amend and supplement the basic text of the adopted law long ago, which he had, I said, already six amendments and additions. That's why we at the Committee have also suggested that we adopt this supplement of our report here at the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5209	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill, along with a proposal from our committee to fix this 12 instead of 10. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted this bill, with 14 votes, at 12 because we currently do not have Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Tihić who left the room for a moment. Point 7. is: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law prohibiting discrimination This is a second reading. You've reached the Joint Committee's report. The commission has accepted seven amendments. The House of Representatives passed this law with six amendments. The amendment was renewed by Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić; this amendment that challenges him with an accepted amendment to the Committee and, before I open the debate, I will give the word to Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5211	Thank you, Chairman. 15 I am not the author of this amendment, by Mrs Mirjana Malić. It is about the adoption of this amendment at this home that we would have the same text in both homes and avoid the harmonisation and unnecessary waste of time. Let me remind you, this is an amandman to the Commission's amendment, which is proposed to delete it because it is contrary to EU directives. So it discriminates, practically, eliminates the private sector from it all, so it now returns in this way to refer to both the private and the public sectors and that it cannot happen that someone is amnesty from such discrimination. If you want me to read your explanation, I can, but I think you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5212	I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5213	There's no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5214	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else in need? So, we understand that by accepting this amendment to Mr Ibrahimpašić, we practically have the same text as the House of Representatives. I don't close the debate. I'm asking if anyone else needs it. I am finalising the debate and putting this amendment to Mr Ibrahimpašić's statement. Who is "for" this amendment? I agree that, with 12 votes, we have accepted this amendment by Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, who has become an integral part of this law and we now have a practical text in the same form as the House of Representatives. I'm asking you now to plead with me on the bill's proposal. Who's "for" the bill? I find that, also with 12 votes, we have accepted the bill and we have the same text as the House of Representatives. There's no need for any consent. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Competition Act (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers 16 The Commission delivered the Report and adopted the draft law with three amendments. It also concluded that it is necessary to make some new technical processing of the text of the bill. They will do so in accordance with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations and deliver it in pure writing before the publication. To inform you that the House of Representatives has passed this law with six amendments. There is no Mrs. Čolo here, but I think if we accept from these three amendments adopted by our committee, and six amendments to this law have been adopted by the House of Representatives, we will have to appoint the Committee for Consention. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate, and I'm asking the presidents of the clubs to propose one person for consent. We'll get to the bottom of this law first, we'll accept it, and then we'll agree to what we accept. So who is "for" such a bill with the proposed three amendments? I agree that, unanimously, with 13 votes "yes", we have adopted the bill. And now, please, club presidents. Mr. Rančić, the match person?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5216	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5217	Alma Čolo. Master Alma Čolo. The Hrvat club?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5219	Mr. Branko proposes himself, very democratic. Then I'd like to pray to the Serbian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5220	Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5221	Mr. Šaraba. Is that what the president of the Srbin klub thinks of Mr. Šarabi? I called the president. Is he accepting Mr. Šarab? I therefore propose the Committee for Harmonization in the composition: Master Alma Čolo, Branko Zrno and Mr. Šaraba Slobodan. 17 Who Is “For ” This Commission? Please make a statement. Srbin, shall we vote, to plead on this commission? So we accepted this committee unanimously, in the form of Čolo, Branko Zrno, Mr. Šaraba. Mrs. Čolo joined. Welcome, we're back to work, and we're on agenda number nine. We're at the 9th agenda, that's "Ad." Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in Banks of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers You've reached the report. The House of Representatives has adopted this law in the proposed text. Is there a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5223	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5224	I'm opening a debate. I'm asking who wants a word. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading. Who is “for ” such a bill in the first reading? I agree that we accepted the bill, with 14 votes "yes", in the first reading. We're going to point 10, that's ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the National Anthem of BiH (first reading) – Proposer:The Council of Ministers You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The House of Representatives accepted the proposed text of the BiH Anthem in its first reading. I beg you, I will give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Justice Commission, if need be. Does Miro have a need? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. 18 Professor Neimarlija, then Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5226	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I am pleased to be able to address you on the agenda of the bill amending the national anthem that our anthem has, in the opinion of musicians and musical experts, indeed this musical eloquence very convincing and convincing, should become, as I say, eloquent and in this textal part and invite you to support the proposal that came after the long work of the Commission which worked in the composition of 11 members, including six MPs, actually three delegates, gentlemen: Drago Ljubičić, Mr Branko Zrno, Hilmo Neimarlija from the House of Peoples; Slavko Jovičić, Adem Huskić and Martin Raguž from the House of Representatives; four prominent poets of the Bosnians: Ranko Risojević, Abdulah Sidran, Predrag panić-kašanski and Predzigić. The Commission has worked for a long time and, as you know, we have had in the public tender 339 proposals for the text of the anthem, after a work in which the members of the Commission have indeed shown an extraordinary... good will and willingness to persist in seeking the most optimal solution. We have reached a solution by reaching a harmonised, creatively solved mix, to say, between the two texts that have been so imposed since the beginning and they have carried these best opportunities and to satisfy therefore and aesthetic and, why not say, the political and functional requirements that... the anthem or the text of the anthem implies. And therefore, with the help of these particularly poets who participated in this, the Commission finally came up with a solution that was unanimously supported, which was accepted by the authors. As you know,... the happy circumstance was that one of the authors was just the author of music, Mr. Šestić, the other author is Benjamin Isović. And we, therefore, unanimously accepted the proposal, addressed to the Council of Ministers who, in my court, were very happy with their suggestions and observations and their suggestions were responded by the authors and, with the agreement of the Commission and the text we accepted, they further processed, in line with the requests and recommendations of the Council of Ministers. And so dressed additionally, I would say, the summed text of the Council of Ministers unanimously accepted it and referred it to us in parliamentary procedure and here we heard: The House of Representatives accepted the text. And, the proposal for the text of the BiH anthem, I call on you to support it, that we also accept it, stressing really the effort, the good will, the competence of the members of the Commission, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the evident fact that this text proposed,... it can be discussed how much poetry of this highest style, but there is no doubt that this text in the most beautiful way possible, I would say, meets the basic conditions that the text of this anthem of our country should have. It also meets the aesthetic requirements, meets these purely functional state and meets, of course, political requirements. And in that sense, I believe that really one of the greatest possible happy solutions is a happy proposal, so here I invite you to accept it and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5227	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Excuse me, Šaraba, and Ivo Miro Jović. Excuse me, Mr. Šarab. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5228	I thank Mr. Chairman. So we got the previous Anthem Act in a way that was imposed by a high representative, came from above us, and here we now have one effort and an attempt by our commission to get the text and also a new orchestra of the anthem. I personally want and expect to experience the text of an anthem as some solemn words that a man needs to awaken the right feelings. With respect to the work of this commission who really had a huge and big job, as my esteemed friend Mr. Neimarlija said, who was eventually in a situation where two texts were brought together into one and that something would come to satisfy at least most of the members of the Commission, I in the text of this anthem, so in this material that we are offered I do not see this solemn part, nor do I see that in this text there is some sublime style. Because of all this and the fact that there are really no feelings in me, my relationship with this text is negative and I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5229	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović, then Mr. Zno. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have something that could be exaggerated between professional and technical, which is that here is affecting Article 3 of the so far State Anthem Act BiH. The promoter has defined the words: the anthem consists of text and orchestral partition. I don't think that's well said, especially if it's taken into account that 'the anthem is a representative song that is sung or played'. I don't think the orchestra can sing. Or, in addition to the explanation, it says that BiH received a tune, and was rejected by that hot text. I would suggest that there would be a more acceptable and better explanation that it was said that 'the anthem consists of text and notary partitions or musical partitions'. It's... in two places, so in the first paragraph and third paragraph after the completion of the text part of the anthem. This is Article 1. (is talking about him) of this law and I think it would be more professional and different in that way, and I shouldn't, because I know that the House of Representatives has already adopted, so there should be no consensus. And one practical question. I hope at the next session or very soon we will have a statement in the final form of this law. I would suggest that, as the last instance of the decision on text, both here and publicly promote the first implementation after adoption. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5231	Thank you very much. I would just beg further speakers, without entering into detail and without the amendment actions on the text, because this is the first reading of principles. Mr. Zno, Dr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to warn you about what you just warned. Because the anthem has passed the path we call procedure, beyond these procedures it cannot go. First of all, it's a professional piece of work. Although I don't have music education, but I know poetry, it's my profession, and it's no problem to talk about. The hymn is made, my people, no Šaraba, by task. The hymn is the result of the homework and it's done so. And what's important here: we all know what anthem is and even from Helada so far as it's evolved, how it's formed, what the original purpose was,... what function it's in now. And that's absolutely irrelevant. This anthem, what we've been offered, simply passed the necessary procedure. And it is good... that the members of the Council of Ministers reacted in the way they reacted and it is good that the paid professionals professionally accepted suggestions, did according to suggestions further what they should have done, ultimately, united in this BiH anthem. And now we have what I really think, not getting into some aesthetic top quality of the offered text, which isn't even possible here, but I keep saying it's absolutely not necessary, it's not necessary. I believe that we can really, without delay and without thinking, support this text, because the form, the poetic form that we've got, not estimating, just by looking at it, cannot be understood or accepted as a result of amateurism. It is the result of professional work according to the standard. So that's the most important thing, that's the final piece. I think one good thing has been found, (we don't need to explain to each other why), one right and a good solution to what can be called a state anthem. What my colleague Jović suggested, it certainly is a solemn act which, I thought even implies, not that we are looking for it, but that it should be understood, and that this solemn act is really here, and not somewhere else. Because this anthem is still the product of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5233	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5234	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow envoys, delegates, Ministers of the Council of Ministers, therefore, I took part in proposing this text even as a member of the Council of Ministers and I know that there was one very 21 constructive debate there and that, I say, very much appreciated proposals that were heard on the original text that came to us at the Council of Ministers. And so I also appreciate the efforts of authors and coauthors who have in one professional way included this text that is before us. What I'm trying to say here, and in some ways I refer to the presentation of my colleague Šaraba, that is, this text of the anthem. I think that actually a lofty feeling in us creates what this anthem symbolizes, not its own text. So, I really don't see any reason here that we all together Bosanac and Hercegovac, who have a fondness for our country, and I always distinguish the country from the state, we don't have a lofty feeling when... one such anthem is sung or played. So I think it would be good if one such symbol were accepted unanimously, if at all possible here in the House. On the other hand, my colleague Jović's discussion, I think, is in place in the part concerning the part. You know that an anthem sometimes only plays one instrument, the trumpet, for example, plays an anthem. And the orchestra can be different or when an orchestra is written it is a different and adapted orchestra. Therefore, I think it would be much more appropriate if there was therefore a note sheet. ... So here I am, of course, supporting the adoption of this law and calling on everyone else to support it if possible unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5236	I agree with those who say we had homework and we were supposed to finish it. One of my questions is, have we given ourselves a homework assignment, too early, so we haven't been able to do the interceptors, something that's in the way, before we do this part of the mission? I've read how many times these words and the first impression is that they've given so much, in fact, that there are so many restrictions that one nation is not too much, and the other too little, that the hermit has lost its authenticity. Watched only which segment should touch me, or the citizens of this country who would have such an anthem. I really couldn't say that an anthem should be a symbol, or a solemn song of BiH, which is deeply divided, a country in which little can be agreed together. Well, then I don't know how we got faith that we could agree on something that's so important to a country like an anthem. I think this is the worst time we're talking about it. The moment... in which we made such a decision was incomparably better, there were many more things that could be arranged than today. Today, in this country, we have no agreement on the key things that our country will look like in a year, let alone so easily agree on what will be our anthem behind which all three peoples in BiH will stand. 22 So it is not a solemn song that touches me. I asked some citizens, I gave them this text, and I asked them what it meant to them. Nevertheless, the quality of the people who participated in this, you could have given any music smithy to explore the anthem according to the instructions you give them and not doubt at all that we have really musical talents, that we have no doubt that it can be successfully carried out. But an anthem that's still going to cause an anthem, we know what it looked like in our former state -- it's not this song. And that's why we won't support this, the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5237	First, I give the word to Mrs. Čolo, then Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5238	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to rephrase to Mr. Slobodin Šarab who said this Anthem Act was imposed by a high representative. I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, but who was sitting in this House in 1998. - 2000, and I think Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija and I were in the House of Representatives, that we listened to the hymns, we chose, so we reached a consensus about the current tune of the anthem. I think we're all... And when we could have agreed 10 years ago, and, I don't know, I'm convinced that we had chosen all of us unanimously then and that we were wondering the MPs of the Bosniak people, because we didn't know who the authors of that music part of the anthem were, we didn't know who the authors were, we just heard the tune, and then we wondered how we all voted; most of us voted for the same tune that is now our anthem. ... Now I'm surprised by what you're saying, Mrs. Majkić, that you don't have any feelings for these words. I think it takes time for all of us to have feelings, is this something new, which should become the text of the BiH anthem. And believe me, this is incomprehensible to me and I find it terribly difficult to hear these words in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić has a replica, Dr. Ljubić's replica and a replica of Šarab. Slowly in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5240	Dear colleague Čolo, it is much harder for me when many of the things that happen here are the result of our misunderstandings, when we cannot agree on many important things and we can never make any concession, it is much more tragic than we cannot choose the words of an anthem. If this were what I said, so if we... respected each other a lot more, a lot more concessions to each other, an anthem would come by itself, we shouldn't convince anyone to do it. There's a basic problem here that needs to be solved between us, we can't work out the basics, there's not one thing we can work out. So every law, every solution -- all 23 is the fruit of our misunderstandings. And in such misunderstandings we want to find the only thing we'll agree on, which is an anthem, the words of an anthem. I think it's... it's denying us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5241	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Majkić's replica, then Mr. Šaraba's replica, and then Dr. Ljubić reported that the secretary warned me. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5242	So, Mrs. Čolo, you're wrong, and we'll discuss it later and get an answer. So what we have now is imposed by the High Representative, and it was done about ten years ago. And I have to tell Mr. Ljubić, so we approach things differently, so that's how I approach the anthem text. You're probably accessing the text the other way, and we're different. And BiH is a unity of diversity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5243	Dr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5244	Of course. So, feelings are different because they're subjective categories, I think, but here we are today discussing a law that is within the jurisdiction of this home to adopt or not adopt it. Therefore, it is more surprising to approach some today's debates, especially given the procedure in which we came to this proposal, which, of course, passed through the Council of Ministers, which included representatives of both entities, all three peoples and, ultimately, in the expert commission itself... where they were representatives of all. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5245	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5246	At the hearing of my colleague Majkić. In fact, I personally share the notion of country and the concept of state and, if we talk about the state, then I, as a representative of the Croatian people, have the right to express the greatest satisfaction with the division of the state in this way. So, surely, my negative relationship with the existing division is certainly, I believe, bigger than yours, when I talk about the anthem; but when we talk about the state, to get back to it, so you see in this country where we have a relationship that we have with it and you and I are sitting in a state organ, in the House of Peoples, and this one we represent in accordance with the Constitution, certain positions, we bring certain laws and regulations, and that's why we kill and pay, and that doesn't bother us, and when it comes to certain things, then it bothers us. 24 So, I here when I refer to this proposal and this anthem, then I refer to it and what the text of the explicit even states of BiH, to its origin, here if you will and narrow the origins of Herzegovina. And I really don't see any reason why we don't support this one today, because this isn't the only law that we would adopt on which we agreed. I don't agree that we can't agree on anything. We've also agreed here today about a dozen laws that we've passed. So we agreed, so we can agree, and about some things we can't agree on, of course, yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5247	Thank you very much, Dr. Ljubić. We have a replica on the line. Slowly and in order: I have three more replicas and waits for Dr Ivanic to discuss. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5248	Mr. Ljubić, your remark would be appropriate if this were a House of Representatives, but we are in the House of Peoples. I am obliged here as my colleagues to protect the interests of the people from which we come. And we're doing it. And it will never happen that we warn anyone of the other two people like this whether you need this or you never need this. So our attitude is our attitude. I ask you to respect him as I will always respect what is your position. So that's what this is about, we're in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5249	Thank you very much. This is Mrs. Majkić's second replica. In order, we are now going: replica Zrno, Mr Rajić, and then Professor Neimarlija. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5250	Well, I didn't exactly pick up the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5251	You were checking in in the woods with a replicated hand. If it's a discussion, I'll leave you behind Mr Ivanić. Replica, Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5252	I have to agree with some of my inner feelings and publicly express it that everyone who spoke correctly, everyone, because they replicated each other from a completely different position. It's true what Mr. Šaraba says is that the anthem is a solemn song, something that produces a profoundly intimate and 25 exhilarating feeling. It can't produce every text, not every music, and I don't expect it to happen today, nor that we'll all be equally thrilled with that text, nor that in any future, whatever it is, we'll adopt it. Someone mentioned an anthem of the former state. I tell you the truth, that anthem never turned me on, I never saw that state as my own, but it was an anthem. So this anthem will also be brought, people will experience it in different ways. The right is Professor Ljubić when he said - it is a subjective feeling - and we can waste time for nine days, it is clear to me that the subjective feeling on one side of representing political interests today is not such that we can bring this text, and that fact should be accepted, whether we like it or not. So it is quite clear to me that RS deputies will not support the solution, call it objective or subjective, or some other approach, the situation is that and let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5253	Thank you very much. Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5254	Well, I'm sorry that I'm going to have to, here's a previous statement of consent with what the esteemed colleague Rajić said, so I understand, and it's no problem to find that everyone from the debate so far is right. But it's about, I say, so I regret having to notice that we plead in our first reading. And the first reading was a statement on the principles of the law, and I am sorry that in the discussion of my colleague Šaraba, especially in Mrs. Majkić's discussion, it resorted to an argument belonging to the second reading, which is the expression of relations to the text itself, i.e. the content of the text, because I did not particularly insist on it, I wanted through the characterisation of the work of both this commission and the relations of the Council of Ministers and drawings, namely aesthetic, political, functional reasons, to point out that the proposal respected something that belonged to the principles of the text of the future anthem. From discussions and Mrs. Majkić and colleagues, Šarabe were not challenged by the principles on which this text was created, on the contrary. This text includes all principles in the most optimistic way and I could, believe me, argue for a long time in which one law can be made. For a year, this committee, which included six MPs, four poets and one ethnomasicologist, dealt with the principles and principles of law-making. And here I am really protesting against all those who question the principles on which this text was made as a proposal for law-making in the first reading. You can discuss the content and we can discuss it, but about the principle, because all of these remarks we heard, which Mrs. Majkić made, are actually counterarguments to the intensity of her discussion. Excuse me, ma'am. We just don't have... I don't know, some for showing emotional experiences. Well, we've just been fighting for a year to neutralize, above all, possibly negative connotations, negative emotions. And the whole story about this text was a sign of meeting the principles on which laws should be made in this country and in the work in which MPs were involved, indeed. And therefore this work is precious, regardless of whether the text of the anthem will be accepted or not, whether the content will actually be accepted or not. But as for the principles and legal assumptions, the specifics, the conditions, the reasons for all that motivated and determined the members of this committee to unanimously support the text, which motivated the members of the Council of 26 ministers to unanimously support this text, I really don't think it can be discussed this way. Tastes – old place and general – are different. And we can talk about it for a long time. In no way do I dispute the right of counterpart Šaraba, naturally respected Mrs. Majkić, to have a subjective relationship, that this relationship also to publicise in the way of the people's relationship in terms of producing national emotions on some text. But as far as the principles on which a law should be made, in the creation of this text – it was taken into account as much as possible. And believe me, if we were to take care of making other legal proposals like this text, we'd probably have the world's most written laws, most written. I mean, literaryly, literaryly, as you will, most literally, because here around every word we've had meetings that have been wasting time on one word for hours, because indeed, I repeat, we've tried and we've tried to satisfy the individual, civil, ethnic, national, national, functional, and aesthetic expectations that need to meet the solemn anthem. Please, don't argue with the principles. You can't argue with principles. Say, we'll accept in phase two, that you don't accept an anthem as it is, offer amendments or another proposal, but it's not, I mean, okay, that the unwillingness to accept the text of an anthem as such, not accepting an explanation by contesting the principle, because the principles on which this text was made are undeniable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5255	Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5256	Dear Mr. Neimarlija, you said that I did not specify any principle which is something that would be in favor or not in favour of the principle itself, so you just said. I can't quote you because you've been talking for a long time. There's only one principle why the law should be passed, only one, and that's that every country has an anthem that has an anthem that has music, even though it doesn't have all states or text, is it? I was talking about the thing -- it's not how I said it before, the blacksmiths in which the anthem was forged, I don't doubt it, they could have been musical experts in it -- I was talking about politics, the political moment for making an anthem, because everything you needed, but it wasn't enough. To bring an anthem, we need a common position to think about it the same way. Here we don't think. I think that a year ago, at a time when the decision was made to go, to create the text of the anthem, in general, this initiative and the activities on it – that the situation in BiH was incomparably better. In the meantime, we're moving away irrevocably from each other and in such a consolidation of forces, where we can't discuss essential things (see, what we're agreeing and what we're going through, these are laws where there's no problem, where we have little difference), we can't agree. So, the laws go through where we're just thinking the same thing. We just had laws that couldn't pass. We have amendments that RS representatives cannot, none can pass. Now, I'm talking about whether it's a moment on that side, and that's why I think all I'm saying is: 27 I'm talking about the principles of this law. So don't talk me out of it. I respect your attitude to think so, but I really ask you to respect that I have such an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5257	We've exhausted the replicas, the false allegations. Replication on the wrong quote, that's your third replica. We'll follow the rule that we don't use more than three. Here you go, Professor Neimarilja.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5258	No, I only had one once.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5259	I've got two records. Here you go, Professor. Yeah, there's one discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5260	Mrs. Majkić has now confirmed the justification of my earlier intervention. There is a reason for texting, countries have some and have no text, however, she said, I respect that openness that this is not the time for here, to say, adoption of the text of the anthem, or that Mrs. Majkić represents the point that at this point cannot adopt the text of the anthem, and it doesn't matter that I don't know what text it is. I'm merely contesting your initial announcement, let me say, the content of the text. Do not bring the text about your unwillingness to accept the anthem text at all as such at this time, because you said so. So the text is not controversial, it's controversial, you said yourself, this time to accept the text, or, you're not ready to accept the text, and you make that clear. The text therefore has nothing to do with your decision not to accept the text of the anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5261	Thank you very much. We're going to the discussion now. Dr Ivanic, then Zrno Branko. Here you go, Mladen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5262	Well, one part of these replicas are taking parts of what I was about to say. From the very beginning, I knew that the anthem, the law, the text of the anthem – will not pass. And I think there's a lot of hypocrisy, untrue in this whole story, very honest. And I said that in college when we decided on this team, because there are no political conditions for it. Well, the other thing is that we're not gonna say it to each other at the beginning, especially some, so they agree to come in and then they agree, and then when it all comes down to it, after all, then they say we're against it. Very honest. And I want to say it openly. I've said from the beginning as a member of the College that I doubt this law will be supported, because I think it's pointless to do this job at this stage. Someone's not gonna like that. I think it's more honest than playing ball, wasting time, and then getting into this 28 situation that we're in. And we are in this situation that this law is hard to pass. Or Professor Neimarlija, you're right. Formal-legal, in my opinion, you're right. This law should not be broken on principles, but I will vote "against". You know why? So you won't look at this farce again. An dishonesty where we won't tell each other: this isn't possible right now. It is better not to spend, nor to share, nor to argue, nor to convince. This group has created a text that really can't offend anyone. And if we're going to have an argument, there's not one thing here that can offend anyone. I also want to make that clear. So it's not the text itself that big a problem. Then we get involved and start spinning around some things. The point is: there are no political conditions, there was no such thing as a year and a half ago, when there was, how many groups were formed. No, they're not. But nobody wanted to say it because it turns out to be, you know, it's better to start saying this I can't, I won't, but I'm wasting my time and I'm creating conditions. And about the text itself and the procedure, I'm entitled to tell you, I agree with you, there's no big emotion in the text, but there's certainly no emotion, and that's a big deal for BiH, there's nothing offensive. But there are no political conditions, and that's why it's better, believe me, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not convincing you, but I'm telling you honestly what I think and I think it's better than talking, that there's no political conditions for this and any text to go through, and not for formal but a bunch of reasons not to go back and back to the rules -- I'm going to be against today to go through at this stage, not because of these arguments that you're talking about, you're right, but I just don't think there's any more sense to be distracted, to switch and not to tell the real truth. Here, that's my opinion. I don't speak for the whole club, I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5263	Thank you very much, we've heard a clear determination. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5264	I thank you, even though it seems to me that it is essential to continue to debate and replicate at all. I can replicate everyone, I can replicate to myself, because we have our own cancer from which we observe certain things. Everyone has a right to it, and even in principle, on principle issues, and we can't argue with anyone. Here, maybe a colleague of the Mladen just opened our eyes. So we got what there is no way, even though I honestly believed in this last text that they would find their place and their passage in this House. So that I don't get into it, here, but said that there's nothing absolutely inappropriate here, that everything is appropriate, that this is not even poetry, that this is not poetry of any policy but of the decry and thought that tries, it can but and it doesn't have to be either sublime, or pathetic, or large and large in its message and strong in its own word, whatever. So there's just no animosity in it. I felt it first as a text, and I'm saying now, a text that, come on, in this paragraph and in this country, seems to me, but above all, it was a test of our civilization maturity. Unfortunately, we can look at it from different sides. If there's not enough for that, I say, if there's not enough desire and will to support it but no, and it's better not to go into a deep and big story, we're going into what's both aesthetic and poetic, and that's a very difficult policy. And we're going to go to extreme 29, and I think it's best if we get the charts to solve this situation and end this story today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5265	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5266	Thank you, Chairman. And I'll just have two words. I think it's true: they had an anthem they didn't have an anthem, we'd be the same. The way we are, many things we won't have, Bog asks you when, but we won't have any harm or if we have it or if we don't have it. But we're missing one fantastic chance, and I've trusted it, to send a message to this citizen that we're not as black as they draw us. And I'm very sorry. Had-not the same, but the message we missed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5267	Thank you very much. Dr. Ivanic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5268	Well, I'm going to take the opportunity to replicate Mr. Zrn, but I'm actually going to say more to myself than I've forgotten about the disagreement. I really think, when it comes to these issues, there must be political consensus behind which it is then firmly standing and that no such business should be remembered as it has entered into. And I especially think, honestly I think, I should, I resent those parties that opened up the space to make a deal, and then they said no deal. It's just, with these things, this isn't how it's supposed to work. Because I think the task force has been properly done and done a balanced text. And I'm particularly sorry about the members of the task force who participated, and it turns out that now they've done something that the rest of them don't agree with, and they were just doing the work that they were getting, but dishonest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5269	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to take part in the debate? We're talking about principles. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading. Who is "for" such a proposal to amend the Law on the State Anthem? 10 votes from the Federation for. Who is “against, ” will I pray? Five votes from the RS "against". 30 Does it make sense to agree? There's no agreement to change your mind. Please, who is "for" this law in the second round of voting? The same result: 10 votes from the Federation for. Is it “against ”? The "against" remained five from the RS. The law on principles falls into the House of Peoples. So let's go law under point 10. We're going to point 11, that's "Ad." 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity in BiH (first reading) – Proposer:The Council of Ministers You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. One... is less, the total of us is 14. I put it on the statement (13 is) of the bill in the first reading. Who is “for ” this bill in the first reading? Who Is “against ”? There is no "against" vote. I konstatirati it has passed unanimously, with 13 votes "yes". Point 12 is Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety in BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Child Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5272	Mr. Chairman, fellow envoys, delegates, I do not currently see anyone from the communication and traffic portfolio, and I need to say a few words about the proposal for this law on road safety, whose proposal is therefore the Joint Commission for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. I would therefore like to say that I personally consider this amendment useful and I also consider it a step towards harmonising this area with the EU ACQUIS. However, as the Ministry, and I was still the minister at the time when this matter was being discussed, it proposed, and the Council of Ministers adopted, an amendment which, as far as I heard it, was therefore not the subject of adoption at the House of Representatives, and I think it is necessary to respect the matter. It is therefore that this amendment to Article 34a(3) states: ‘A car driver may carry a child older than 5 and less than 12 years and less than 150 cm in the back seat only when the child is sitting on a special coaster that allows the use of the safety belt’, etc., etc. I believe that such a text of the law would not actually be applicable because it would be difficult to implement from the point of view of control, and not a single law, if, I say, it would not be controlled by its implementation, in a large part, loses its meaning, so the statistics that were given here in the light of this law, which says that in the past, I do not know, for two or three years, any control and no application have been imposed for non-compliance with the existing law, which also regulated some areas. Which means, and the logical question is, who will control tomorrow in the car whether the child is 150 cm tall and whether it is smaller and whether it is more. Absolutely, it is, and therefore this proposal for repairs given by the Ministry and which I support, in fact, eliminates both the weight and the centimeter, and focuses on the essence, and therefore says: 'A driver in a private car may carry a child older than 5 and less than 12 years in the back seat only when the child is sitting on a special coaster adapted to its height that allows the use of a safety belt and when it is properly tied to a safety seat, which is attached to the seat by means of a safety belt... and the connection of special buckles in the vehicle.' So that's how we satisfied the essence. So that safety belt doesn't cause any major damage in the event of an accident and that it meets the need. So, a suitable coaster that will therefore compensate, to completely simulate things, compensate for the lack of height. And that's how a cop, who's going to stop a vehicle, controls only the position of the belt, not the weight and height of the child, which is actually completely impossible. And of course, there is another point in Article 3. Bill proposal: that instead of 14 years should stand for 12 years, because this law refers to a age of 12 years. I see here also the minister who is present, just to say briefly, because he has just entered: so it is an intervention on this bill of law which is also the proposal of the Ministry and which the Council of Ministers adopted. Otherwise, I must also say that the Ministry is preparing more comprehensive amendments to the Law on Road Safety, which therefore included this thing that we are treating here today and many other things that I would not be going into right now, but ultimately I would like to say my position: that therefore I support these amendments and are complemented by these repairs proposed by the Ministry and adopted by the Council of Ministers, and I believe that in the procedure of the next up to the second reading, the corresponding amendment which I can also invest, can make a correction that will make this law better, and ultimately, it is certain that it is approaching this area of ACQUIS to the EU. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5273	Thank you very much. So, all these repairs on details in the amendment phase. It is desirable of all of us who have certain different thoughts about the proposal that is ahead of us. Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5274	Well, I'd just like a little bit. We had a session of nine. 7. when we discussed the principles of this law, and the Council of Ministers' opinion came in 20. 7. so that we could not bear this in mind; but the Council of Ministers, under Rule 103 of our Rules of Procedure, is authorised to submit amendments and we can consider these amendments to the Council of Ministers, so that, in the second reading of this amendment, we will respect and declare ourselves of course on them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5275	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the hearing. I'm putting on a statement of the bill, in the first reading. Who's "for"? I find that, unanimously, with 14 votes, we have accepted the bill, in our first reading, in paragraph 12. Moving to point 13. What conclusion? The Commission's conclusion, just a moment. So, we don't dispute the report of the Committee, there's one conclusion in it. Then we'll get to the bottom of the report from the commission. I ask you nicely to make a statement on the Committee's report, with this conclusion. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the Committee's report, with the proposed conclusion. Moving to point 13, that's "Ad." 13. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in BiH (First Reading) 33 So, we're discussing the principle, we're not going to get into the details. The House of Representatives passed this bill in the first reading. I'm opening the debate. I think Rančić asked for a word first. He's a gentleman and he gave you his word. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5277	Before I say anything, I want to show you one of the cards BHMAC made in time and that's caused a lot of public attention. This red, these are mines in BiH. So there's no man who's seen this map and has remained indifferent. BiH is a land of mines.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5278	Who set them up?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5279	We had... All together, Mr Filipović, and there we all were very successful. The question is, what have we been waiting for? We had one law that was such that he produced more negative effects than he did to make this country fit and clean up from mines. The Commission for Defence and Security every time and every year deals particularly with all security institutions, and among other things it has worked around BHMAC, so when the College decided that this is the responsibility of the Commission for Human Rights, we wondered if the Human Rights Commission had as much information as we are constantly with BHMAC. So we know that the Anti-minal Action Strategy for the period 2009- 2019 was adopted, according to which the mine problem would be fully resolved over the next 10 years, conditionally. The prerequisite for the implementation of the Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers is to pass a new law. And now, there were two options: to amend the existing one, but as the unique rules for making legal rules predict if more than 50% of the law is changed, it has to go to a new law, so, the ministry is, so the new law contains 62 members, the old law has 45 members, so more than 17 members we have new. So why is this area so important to us? The public is very often shaken in BiH when it is heard that either one of the deminers or residents living near a border where the demining has not been completed. According to BHMAC, we heard that there are 1,631 settlements in BiH under mines, that 900,000 people in BiH are at risk of life and safety, which is why BiH, therefore, places these data in BiH's most vulnerable countries. Authorities in this area also estimate that there are currently more than 200,000 different mines in the country, that up to now 85 square kilometres of minefields have been cleared and 38,000 mines and 30,000 different unexploded killings, such as bombs, grenades and the like. 34 According to BHMAC director, although we have enough deminers and good demining equipment, BiH annually clears mines 30km square and due to lack of money, so instead of 30km square, it cleans 12km square. They also say, but it is a source that should be suspected, that BiH needs 100 million a year to clear this number, which tells me that in 10 years, a billion needs to be provided. However, many people doubt the data being presented and therefore should have passed a law as soon as possible that will handle it in a unique manner in BiH. What's left of me as a dilemma when I read this law is the same as the dilemma we've been dealing with so far, the issue of setting up the Demining Fund. As is known, today's Demining Fund for BiH is located in Slovenia. Slovenac collect money from donors and hire their own people who work in the fund, they take a percentage, which, we don't know what, and BiH is 14 years after the war unable to form its own fund and show a symbolic amount of priority as a country to address this demining problem. So, I expect this key problem, meaning, the formation of the fund, to be resolved and that in further work... in this area we will make a fund in BiH, leave it to the Slovenac to provide as much money as they can, but that most of the money or the highest value of the money will be here in this country, not that we expect whether they or not to transfer something here. So I'm sure that this law is done according to measure and that it represents a step in solving the problem of a very important issue, meaning such as the issue of demining, and that's why I think it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5280	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5281	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Majkić took a good deal from these presentations by Colonel Gavran, who is BHMAC's director, whom we hear on the Defence and Security Commission and on the working tables, but of course, here was a useful listener for more or for those who did not hear this information. So it's about first reading and the principles of the anti-mine action bill. What I will try very briefly is that, therefore, we will support the first reading of this law, we will allow it to go into further procedure in order for the amendments to be possible and, of course, we will have certain dilemmas that we will want to clarify before the final decision on the adoption of the law in the second reading. When you look at it, at least it's not clear to me, the reasons for the reasons for the proposed legal solutions, so something in style is bad, catastrophic, not good, etc., etc., and now we're passing the law so when we pass the law then indirectly it'll get better. I cannot accept such a substance that everything that has been done so far – nothing is quite right or has not improved, and with the law, all 35 of this will be better and better quality and gives certainty that, possibly, by implementing this strategy by 2019, we will clear BiH from mines. The other thing that's a little questionable to me is the conversion of the status of this agency, I don't know why it is, why BHMAC's status is being converted into an agency within the Ministry of Civil Affairs, as well as the question of the overall financing of this job, with efforts in the law that all the money, but everyone, in connection with this activity, is being placed on the sub-account of the Ministry. Well, if that's acceptable then, what is this agency, this administrative organization within the ministry, what is its jurisdiction and will it be our basic lever in cleaning BiH from mines? If it will have some different status – so it cannot work without this money, it cannot work without money, it is clear – and if it is our main trust with the Armed Forces that we know are professional, which so far worked, etc., so I will seek for myself a clarification of these reasons, little things, etc., etc., of this coordination of all the competent authorities in the field of demining BiH, so, of course, we will behave in the amendment phase and in other readings. And here's the first reading we're going to support so that this law has a pass in the follow-up procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5282	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić gospodin Šarab, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I want to say that I cannot give support to this law for the reason that the said law confers jurisdiction from entities, so from RS to BiH, and without the procedure that was to be implemented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, so to make the right decision and to go into the formation of this law for one basic reason why, in the text of this law, Article 5, and then by a further set of members, a new body is formed, that is the Agency for Anti-minal Action, so the administrative organisation is, however, a change is being made, but it is one new body which is carrying out the transfer of certain powers that are now being carried out in the RS to BiH. So, it is a fundamental and key observation although from the RS there is a very large number of objections to the text of this law, not to list now at this time. Of course, there will be time for this, it is crucial that this law conducts a transfer of competence and thus take away certain powers which are now being exercised by entity bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5284	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? 36 Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5285	"Thank you very much, I'll try very briefly. We've got and I don't know why but the competent Human Rights Committee has been designated as a committee to be given its judgment on the principles of the proposed law. It is also true that the dilemma was brought to the College of the House or both: whether it should be considered by the Defence and Security Committee or whether it should be here in a small segment where human rights are concerned and given to this commission. But this commission has proposed a conclusion that has so far not been discussed and that we will certainly need to make clear today what might contribute to changing what the original text of the law offers. When looked at, I would not enter what is the measure of the law because we are talking about principles today, but why not say that there are over 1735 square kilometers in BiH or 3.35% of the surface, and that is one evil. Without removing mines, there are no different impacts on development from various branches of the economy and so it is very important to get a little stronger and catch up with this problem to solve it. BiH, we are aware of the facts, is unable to resolve this on our own, and I think that in the way it offers this law, I think, we are going to enter a phase where we are going to be in a position to have less and less impact, but also that those who are helping us and who are looking at us from the world are slightly turning our backs. We just need to see, and here we get from May of the Bill's proposal, and the final explanation says that a strategy has been made and that it will be meant in 2008 that it will be made and then the Proposer is not saying anything about whether a decision has been made on how to secure the missing funds for the period 2009. – 2019 and according to, they say, adopted strategy. So as the proposer is in the 5th month, and I'm surprised that it wasn't given what was done at the end of 2008, how much these funds were, were they singled out, what was with the strategy, etc.? Why would I ask that? Because here it is and said that we have an out-of-country fund-raising headquarters and that it is 3% taking plus surveillance and other people activation. But I wonder what part of it that we take out and get, says 1:2. The question is how objectively we would have gotten those funds if it wasn't the seat where it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5286	Thank you very much. So there's a lot of doubt here and a lot of questions. Dear Minister Nović asks for a word and I give him my word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5287	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, I will try to appreciate your time very briefly to make a few remarks. You see, we have so far had the Anti-miny Act in BiH, and I point out to all those who appreciate that it is the transfer of competence to look at the existing law and will make sure that this law 37 has already existed for several years. So if we look closely at it, we in no single member have done anything to take away and to give someone some of the authority. We have seen that for two years one of BiH's serious problems is not only that BiH is contaminated by mines, with mines, but much more that we are not doing enough to demining BiH. We have been working for almost a year on the anti-mining action strategy in BiH, as well as on the priorities and anti-mining action plan adopted by the Council of Ministers. In order to ensure that this strategy is implemented in 2009. In 2019, it was necessary to change the law. Based on the existing law, we don't even know in the budget how we're going to single out the funds, so that those funds are spent. So the existing law didn't make it possible. That's one dimension. Second, you know they're... The ITF fund formed, first of all, the US, Canada and some other country based in Slovenia. All countries wishing to donate BiH for mine action must, I stress, only go through the ITF fund so far. So, under which conditions the fund works, it's now another complete story I could talk about, but I don't want to burden you with that. So that's not what we're doing, so what's the problem yet? First of all, the assets that are up there, we have very little insight. The funds are being allocated globally for mine action, not only for BiH but also for one mine action fund at all, so there are countries in the former Yugoslavia and others, including Afghanistan. Who in that crowd is going to get a lot of cake, it's now a question of lobbying and something else. We think that another problem is to separate some of the funds for BiH through the ITF fund. You know how we get in position? BiH, which has many demining institutions of private and, they say, among the best quality demining firms, they only get a minimum, because the ITF fund says: these can work, and these can't work. And we have constant pressure from these houses, precisely why our businesses in BiH don't do it, and the donations, or donors, that give these funds, they're dissipating tenders, they decide who will be the performer of the demining. So BiH is not involved in anything, but nothing at all. We think it's time to do something extra. We don't touch the ITF fund, it's someone who started it, he's welcome, he's helping us, he's done a lot and I welcome it. But we want to open up space in BiH so donors can donate directly to BiH. We couldn't do that until now. Several ambassadors of the countries have been with me with a recommendation that they are ready to donate BiH funds, we cannot accept them, because our Demination Law did not allow it. And we, don't really think that we haven't had serious and difficult talks where some lobbyists don't allow today that BiH has the right to receive funds directly. I don't think we need anyone to argue with that, not challenging the ITF fund again. That is precisely why we have suggested that these funds that would be donated be allocated as special funds and how to be spent in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. They are not concentrated here on financial assets and taken from the Agency, or MAC. The MAC does not have the right to participate in the award of tender documentation, design, nor does it have the sole right to exercise supervision, it is a completely separate institution, the Agency which must not have a direct link with the funds and those who decide to demining, so that is one of the basic reasons why we wanted to do so. We think BHMAC just needs to transform into a management organization and nothing else. Nothing that matters is changing. It's trying to get rid of it systemically. 38 Another important issue, we were governed by a three-man commission by the demining process in BiH. I don't think it's appropriate for BiH, I guess the time has come for us not to solve such large issues through committees, but to institutionalise and ask within one ministry. I don't mind it being any other ministry, and while I'm here, it would be a lot easier for me and a lot less headaches, but I personally object to some commissions managing anything in this country. We need to do the institutions in a way that goes institutionally. That's why we said: let the Ministry of Civil Affairs take over the role of the commission, it represents BiH. How does the commission represent BiH? I have to admit, I don't understand... that this committee is leaving and representing and that it's now collecting data. From who? So, we just want, that's our intensity was, that's our goal was, are we really in all these segments and did very well – it's up to you to judge. It is up to you to suggest, to suggest, that we sit together and come up with the most favourable solution, the most qualitative solution, not at all challenging, therefore indeed, and defending the stubborn document that has been proposed on our part. Here you have seen in article 19 that we propose how funds are provided for mine financing. And if we adopt this law, then we can look to the 2010 budget to allocate some of the funds for mine action. In Article 20, we regulate that these funds will be spent in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. If we don't do that, we're going to make a budget, I assure you that BiH will not have a chance to allocate a portion of the funds in 2010. When it comes to, (only two or three notes left), you see, it is foreseen... in Article 29. ... these funds to be spent: to form special commissions to conduct a tender that will decide on whom to assign as usual. And finally, let's not waste any more time,... when it comes to mobilising the funds that the esteemed delegate Jović spoke of, above all, it is about the funds that are given at donor dinners where the funds are mixed. Unfortunately, we still don't have enough of that feeling in BiH to say here's 2 million from the BiH budget, so we get 4 million, that would be the right move, and we don't give 50 or 30,000 at that dinner, and we expect the private and owners of certain companies, etc. More for my commercials, I'd say to the firm, and thank them for coming and giving at that donor's dinner and 200, 300 grand, and we're going out with some better shame and we're going to give you 50,000. These funds are colliding, and they're double resources, and that's the biggest benefit, because that's what America stimulates us in that direction. So, I think that we have one good law on the table and that, with your opinions and opinions, that is, amendments that others in the Parliamentary Assembly can also propose, sit together, evaluate what is best for BiH to get some law, because I expect that we adopt this law in September so that we can start a new activity. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5288	Thank you very much, Minister Nović. Mr. Šaraba, please. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, although I am not directly mentioned, I must say to the esteemed, esteemed and truly esteemed Mr. Sredoje Nović that I based my discussion on the amendments I received and in this opinion I received from the Directorate for Civil Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. So, of the people who work professionally and who clearly and explicitly wrote part of what I said only in one part, so, but obviously this shows that there are some things in the ruling party in RS that are not very good and that the strings have started to shoot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5290	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Jović, replica. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5291	: I turned off my phone and thank you, excuse me once again, I don't think it's a good finding from the Honorable Minister when he said that approximately the solutions that we currently have are recognized by the law. I would only suggest Article 12 and Article 14. In Article 12, RTTV headquarters is in Sarajevo and has an office in Banja Luka and Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5292	Radio-television. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5293	: He knows well, I said it on purpose, don't worry, but he also has a director and deputy from two constituent nations. Now neither one has such a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5294	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5295	Don't chase down broadcasters, agencies, public companies, etc. Thank you very much. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. So, here, we've been discussing this law, which is in the first reading. I am putting forward the proposal for a bill on BiH's mine action in the first reading. Who is "for" this bill? We vote. 40 I find that we are unanimous..., with one vote "against" of a total of 12 MPs, 11 supported. We have the entity majority of both entities. We passed the Antimine Act in the first reading. Thank you very much. Moving to point 14, that's "Ad." 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH Institutions It's also about first reading. The House of Representatives yesterday adopted this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5297	/No microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5298	Let me finish. So, if you have the needs as chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee, go ahead. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5299	So you have a report from the Finance Commission and a budget that unanimously accepted the principles of the proposed law and referred it to a further legislative procedure. What does it actually touch? The main thing is regulation by the Council of Ministers by means of a sublegal act laying down a more detailed criteria for the classification of positions in payment classes intended for KV to more school preparation. That means in coefficients 1.12 to 1.83. Therefore, this possibility is left to the Council of Ministers and therefore, such sublegal acts must give consent to the Council of Ministers. Also, we have a member who regulates that if the macroeconomic stability of BiH is threatened, the Council of Ministers can by means of an act regulate the height of the annual vacation regress. I don't think any of the principles proposed by this law are controversial and that we could support these principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5300	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Is there a need to propose? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 41 I would like to make a statement to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salary and Compensation in First Reading Institutions. Who is "for" this bill? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I konstatirati it unanimous with the presence of all the representatives in the hall: it is 11 "for". No one “against, ” no one“ abstention. ” We're going to point 15, that's "Ad." 15. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2008 You've reached the report. The House of Representatives considered it and took note of it. Is there an authority from the High Court and Prosecution Council? You're here on behalf of an authorised president? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5303	_________(?) Yeah. [[no microphone turned on]] We didn't get a chance to meet you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5305	Thank you very much. So, we don't know each other, it's about Mr. Milorad Novaković, right? Novković, my apologies, thank you very much. We usually watch, and that's where we're sitting, or the ones that are the rapporteurs, and we don't know each other. Thank you for coming. You'll get your word if it's a home appraisal. Is there a need for the chairman of the Constitutional Commission? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. 42 Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, I want to say that we have in front of us an extremely high-quality report that is substantial, enriched by illustrations, numerous data, and in which indeed for all those who want to see, and I think that we are all here, they can see all the important data that are relevant to the work of the judicial institutions. I want to start by saying one of my remarks earlier and last year, I think last year when we discussed this report, which is that it concerns, of course, the reform of the judiciary that was carried out several years ago, and I am personally not satisfied with this reform. I believe that the reform of the judiciary has not achieved that goal and that task that the judicial reform had, has not been raised, but, in my opinion, has reduced the quality of the work of the judicial institutions. The costs of the work of judicial institutions are enormously increased. We now have – at least I am speaking from the position of the environment from which I come – several judges and prosecutors in Trebinj who came here from the side and whose life and stay are in Trebinj, and of course it was in all other areas in BiH, embossed with huge and large costs, and it was not before. So today, we have people who are 150, 200 or 300 km away from their place of residence,... they have to stay in some other environments, and that, personally, and also with the jobs they do, is creating big problems. And, in my opinion, the results of the work are not visible and this can be seen when we look at all these items, the number of solved and unsolved objects. There's this at some level from the previous period. Therefore, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has its jurisdiction over courts and prosecutors at all levels of government and what is very important and important: it is the appointment and determination of the disciplinary responsibility of the judges. I'm saying this for the reason that later on, through my discussion, I'm going to say which is my biggest and most significant observation regarding the work of the judicial institutions. And therefore, these remarks are two though there are more. First, I am not satisfied with the work of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office on War Crimes, given the significant objections from the RS that come to these cases and the extremely slow treatment in those cases that we delegates from the RS who have come here on several occasions: we mentioned both the dobrovoljački and the tuzlanski Column and the Sijekovac and all those Srbin deaths where the proceedings have not been initiated so far. And of course, my second dissatisfaction concerns one court procedure that has already grown into an affair in BiH, which is the case of Alijagić or the Alijagić affair, where judicial institutions have so far made various rulings that ranged from one million to two hundred thousand, and now in the last verdict up to about six million and something, which all with some interest will come out... to 35 million. So, one verdict and one case that, if confirmed, in the end, and apparently it will, one local community, which is the municipality of Trebinje, will lead to a situation that literally the budget of that municipality for the next 10 or 15 years will only be converted into a budget that will finance and provide funds to this man whose property has been destroyed. And it's not, it wouldn't be a dispute if numerous assets in BiH hadn't been destroyed in the past, but we are focusing on the case and here for the past few years it has been constantly gathering attention. 43 What is very significant, and I will point out this in particular, is the ruling of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which does not come under the influence of this institution, but unfortunately, where this court is in its final judgment, I will say, it has been disastrously acting as a judicial truth which, in addition to its jurisdiction, carried out the determination of the financial amount. So she acted like a third or fourth-degree court and eventually confirmed this verdict, which is truly disastrous. And of course, the second reason why I am expressing my dissatisfaction with the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, in addition to this case where, in my opinion, the High Court and the Prosecutorial Council has so far had to react to those judges who have judged such amounts – means that it is unacceptable that in five, six years in the Main and District Court in Trebinj, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is not looking at it. I think so far it's taken several times to respond to those who have made such judgments. That's why my dissatisfaction with this report is with this subject, because I have another way of expressing my dissatisfaction. On behalf of all these people who are protesting, who may be left without a salary tomorrow because the municipality will be blocked, as it was blocked before 2005, when six months of local government employees could not make a salary until Alijagić was calmed down in order to get that verdict to 6.5 million, so now it will be blocked again at some time. And, of course, my second dissatisfaction is the same because of one verdict at the local level that the District Court...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5307	They warn on time colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5308	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5309	Let's not go to dialogues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5310	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5311	Let's not go to dialogues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5312	I'll take this in time. Mrs. Čolo, that's very incorrect of you. So, I am discussing the Annual Report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is responsible for judicial institutions in BiH. One of these institutions is this basic and county court whose report is here in this book which has reached these verdicts and which will close the local community in the country; e, that is why it is competent. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5313	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Otherwise, Mrs. Čolo answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5314	I'm sorry for speaking from the scene, but I don't think it's appropriate that when you discuss this report, in which there is not one specific court case, you should mention the Alijagić case. I mean, really, I don't know, getting into the metrics of the slow, I don't think that's right. And now I've reported to my discussion, and here's what I'd like to say are a few comments regarding the report itself. So we know that the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has been passed by this Parliament and the Council makes 15 members, and I think that we are the only country in Europe that has such an independent body in which 90% of the members of the judges, prosecutors and lawyers are two representatives of the bar. So, of the 15 members you have 13 members who are from the profession. I am just asking us: are we such a democratic country that Parliament, the Council of Ministers, we all need to be so impartial that our representatives cannot be in an independent body that needs to deal with issues dealing with the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council? These two members appointed by the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, I think they are insufficient and, behold, I don't think there are any countries in the region that have such a composition of an institution that should be independent. But I think that judges and prosecutors themselves are not the best solution. There must be a certain balance in this body. As Members of Parliament, we have no right to ask anything, nor how the courts in this country work, nor... what their salaries are, nor, at some lower levels, our question is only the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I don't think the judicial reform has responded to the specific tasks ahead of it. You can ask lawyers, people who are in court every day. The courts were attended by people who had never worked in the judiciary, and people who had worked for years came out of the judiciary. And I think the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council as a respected judge and president of the Banja Luka District Court, if he has arguments, can also deny me. But here I am talking to people who seek justice every day in court, and they are dissatisfied with the judgments of municipal courts and basic courts, as well as the district and cantonal courts that show fundamental ignorance. That's why I think we may need to do it in the future, but yet the international community will say that we want to put the situation back on track and that we want to increase the political impact on the judiciary -- that we should consider that the composition of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is not exactly like this, 13 people from the profession, meaning six judges, five prosecutors and two representatives of the bar, but that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council should also be extended to some other experts, experts from the legal area who will be a little more independent when it comes to the choice of judges and prosecutors. Because here I have the knowledge that people are chosen that way: who knows who in which court to recommend making progress to the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. 45 I would like to ask the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. This report states that there has been an statute of limitations in a number of subjects for subjective reasons and that it is an unscheduled course of action. You, Mr. President, know what it means when a prosecutor or judge allows the case to fall into oblivion by its subjective actions. So, you within the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council have the Office of the Discipline Prosecutor who is independent of the body and who can act on complaints or self-initiatively and I ask you: Has the Disciplinary Prosecutor taken action against judges and prosecutors who have led to their subjective behavior to the fact that certain cases fall into obscenity and means that they are exculpatory or possibly perpetrators of criminal offences, and the victims who have been damaged by these criminal acts do not experience satisfactory? Or possibly in other cases of other kind, construction cases, where people who may have sought the protection of their rights as damages or something failed because judges and prosecutors did not act on time, which is what you said in your report. I want to ask you another question of the norm. Before the war and before the judicial reform, the judges and prosecutors had the norm, so as a prosecutor, I had to make so many charges in a month. Well, my indictment if she went down in court, it was an acquittal, and I had to file a complaint against her, because I shouldn't have stayed until the end of the main search unless I had proof, so I had to give up prosecution, not knowingly go to the acquittal and not complain afterwards. You're saying in your report that you haven't yet defined the norm, because this is, these norms are formerly out of date and I agree they're out of date, but I think the normative question should be settled as soon as possible because we have a large number of pending cases. And that's what I'm telling you as a Parliamentarian because I think we have a duty to take care of Article 6. The European Convention on the Right to Fair Procedure, which includes, among other things, a reasonable trial and BiH is a country that has initiated cases before the European Court of Human Rights because of excessively long proceedings, both in civil and criminal cases. And we will pay huge damages in the next period, and not just us, because the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and to exceed that deadline is the reason to launch the largest number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights. It is not the problem of BiH alone, it is the problem of all 47 members of the Council of Europe, but here, I think that with this norm and sanctioning of prosecutors and judges, who long run cases and permits their subjective behavior to fall into old age, that by sanctioning them we can prevent these negative consequences that will take place in BiH. We from the European Commission Progress Report last year had information that there were 2 million pending cases, and this year we also have information that there are a large number of pending cases. I see from this report of yours that it's 562,000 unsolved cases in courts, and probably not these communal objects that carry a large number and don't need to be, because these are objects... that there are very many and shouldn't be courts, I think, they don't even have to deal with, and they need to think about it. And I would just ask the question when it comes to investigations in BiH prosecutors (there is one piece of information here that you have investigations that were launched before 2003 and there are a number of these investigations, 1,405, which have not been completed). I'm asking a question from the human rights aspect: what are the people against whom the investigative procedures are being initiated, and for so many years they've been waiting for these investigative proceedings to end, what kind of mechanisms do they have to protect themselves? So, someone's running investigation 46 against you and you've been waiting so long for this investigation to end, and we know that criminal procedural legislation is provided for: when an investigation takes longer than six months, this prosecutor is obliged to inform the D.A.'s College why the investigation takes longer than six months and to state the reasons why he is unable to complete the investigation within six months. I think that, with these long investigations, human rights are being violated, and it also does not contribute to the exercise of the right to a fair trial and trial within a reasonable period of time... of that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5315	Thank you very much. We will give a later chance to the President of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to Mr Novković when we hear the other representatives. We've heard three very important questions. They will have to give answers, they are related to the report, although what was objected to by Mr. Šarab was also with you, but you have commented on a law that justifies the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, therefore, which is not the subject of their composition, so here I am sort of justifying the trip that he made in the same form and in the same form as coming out of Mr. Šaraba's agenda. Mrs. Majkić, here you go, then the replica. Is that a replica? Excuse me, replica chooses, if it's a short replica. Mrs. Majkić, I'm sorry, Mr. Šaraba called.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5316	I just want to say one sentence to my esteemed friend, Mrs. Alma Čolo. So the fact is, she didn't like what I said here and it was about one particular case. So my story was directed only in that direction to try to create a climate to eliminate those people who are corrupt and nothing else from the judiciary. So, I expect support in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5317	Thank you very much. So you jumped both ways, I was fair to both. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5318	So, I have watched what is the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so in this sea of jurisdiction, in no matter what, only in order... point 28, says 'it gives an opinion on draft laws, regulations and important issues that may affect the judiciary, initiates the procedure for the adoption of laws and other regulations and gives guidance to courts and prosecutors from the jurisdiction of the Council.' I really don't know how that's not one of the first points, because I don't think all of this up there has the same meaning as this point. 47 I wish this report, just about this point, had considered how judicial institutions at BiH level were installed, as well as some very specific solutions in our judiciary. We know about the agreement... between the High Representative and the Register Office on the establishment of the Register Office. We know that it was completed in 2004 and that the Register Office was established for a period of five years, so until 1 December 2009. The 2004 agreement was replaced by a new 2006 agreement, which reads in Article 8 that the appointment of international judges and prosecutors and activities conducted by the Registry Office is regulated, and I now quote: 'which makes contacts with ambassadors and relevant foreign authorities to ensure the availability of suitable candidates for the vacant post, as well as to ensure appropriate financial conditions for the work of these candidates. Named or re-named may only be those international candidates for which the Register Office confirms that their funding has been agreed." Imagine, that's the only condition: if there's funding, there it is! So among the basic conditions that the candidate needs to meet, so the candidate, I mean the foreign judges and prosecutors, there is one item that says 'they have proven impartiality and excellent results in earlier jobs'. I, starting with this fact, which is so explicitly stated, on February 26th of this year, sent you Mr. Novković a question and asked me to answer: 'Is the BiH High Court and Prosecutor's Council of Justice being checked and examined by the reference of foreign judges and prosecutors in the Prosecutors' Office and the Court of Justice and whether their work has been carried out in the judiciary of the countries from which they come and what are their findings?' That was one question. And secondly: 'Has the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council ever requested and received information from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia on the benefits of Prosecutor Hari Furlan to perform his duties as prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? If not, when does he plan to do so?' And I got your answer reminding me that the process of selecting and naming international judges and prosecutors is under the signed agreement between the High Representative and BiH, and that the examination and examination of the references, i.e. the verification of their work, so foreign judges and prosecutors, is not even foreseen by the prescribed procedures. So it's just enough that someone's gonna provide money and what they're like doesn't matter. In response, you also told me that 'the appointment of Hari Furlan as prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office was carried out after the Register Office informed the registrar that financial resources had been provided for his engagement. In the process of selecting and appointing Prosecutor Furlan, from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia," you said, "no information has been requested about his convenience for the performance of the prosecutor's office in the Prosecutor's Office, since obtaining such information is not intended by the regulations." Now, I ask you a question now: How is the condition prescribed by this agreement that requires proven impartiality and excellent results in earlier jobs and how it has been found that the candidate for prosecutor Hari Furlan has proven impartiality and excellence in previous jobs, when we know that he came to BiH after a famous affair called Clean Lopat in Slovenia in the justice of Slovenia. So whoever makes a mistake in his country has the opportunity to come and work in BiH in the BiH judiciary. That, that, about reformed justice! 48 Another thing we do not know: Do the foreign judges and prosecutors make a solemn statement, as it was regulated by Article 47 on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, as the BiH presidency made a decision on the recognition of diplomatic status to all members of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office on 3 June 2004. And in Article 31. The 1961 Convention on diplomatic relations is said, the Vienna Convention - a diplomatic representative enjoys immunity from the criminal responsibility of the recipient state. He enjoys immunity from both its civil and administrative responsibilities and is not obliged to testify; he cannot take enforcement measures. The same convention also regulates diplomatic staff by all members of the diplomatic representation who have diplomatic status. Now I ask you: Is it possible, and this is possible only in this country, that diplomatic agents sue and prosecute domestic citizens in a sovereign country such as BiH, which, by international treaty under its Constitution, by membership in the UN, the Council of Europe and other international organisations, as a sovereign country, is there as a sovereign country? Did the presidency violate the rule of law by giving immunity to foreign judges and prosecutors in BiH's judicial institutions on the basis of constitutional jurisdiction for foreign policy management? Where these positions of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council are, tell me by what constitutional and legal provisions the holders of judicial institutions and judicial functions may have diplomatic status that the diplomatic representatives of foreign states enjoy in the receiving state. Indeed, you will find it difficult to find a point, or member of the law to say it. And does, in the end, exemption from criminal and civil and administrative responsibilities only for foreign judges and prosecutors mean violation of the BiH Constitution and the rule of law? Who are they responsible for? Finally, I believe that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as an independent institution should also consider all these issues and express its opinion on them. I will not knowingly open this time a terrible question that is here and these days again current, which is that in public, war crimes convicts in BiH have again appeared and have asked them to be tried under the law applicable at the time of the execution of war crimes, which is in accordance with international human rights conventions. You haven't said a word about it. And I'm also not going to speak except for one sentence, as it is possible that your institution has been hiding from the office for three years for reviewing reports relating to donation funds of nearly 8 million, that in the end, here you are now after the conclusion of this Parliament, that you have given the text in English. And I remind you that everything you received as a donation must have been ratified in this House, and ratifications can only be carried out in the language of this country or in the languages of this country. So you gave the review and that the homes were translating, to find out how the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council spent three years of donor funding, in three years that he didn't want to show the Office of Audit. Forgive me, in the end, I know that you've been a year, I don't know if you're there and you appreciate that my address to you is to address the institution from which you come in the hope that what you've heard here will make the next report better...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. I think her last question comes out of the context of the report we're discussing today, because I don't think this report touches the donations you asked about. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5320	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5321	In the last question, it's not about the subject, but I have to tell you, I've noticed that for other colleagues. The answer is so multilayered that it should touch the mass of laws, international conventions, directives, recommendations, etc. to answer all these questions. But I'm not taking anyone's right to say it, but maybe it would be good because there's been a lot of questions for the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Here's Mr. Jović, and then we'll give Mr. Novkovic a word. Here you go, Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5322	: I wish I had this report in my own language, but here I am, probably not, it's a feature of the house: either in English or elsewhere. But, well, I think that this report that we have ahead of us, I would like it not even to be written, because it would be different decisions; we have long had a dilemma on the Constitutional Commission: whether it should be adopted or taken into consideration. And it's not just a headline problem. But anyway, I want to say that when you look at this report on the methodological, professional side, this is extremely good, professional and quality done, and that's what you should say. I would only like one segment, and that is what has been put under the appeal of this recommendation that you have proposed, when it comes to the legislative authority, that in a special way it is a little isolated and it has been shown that it is expected from this House or Parliament that it is necessary to assist in the realisation of the cooperation and progress of the overall work in the judiciary. I'm particularly interested in one chapter. It's war crimes. And here it is shown in this report on two or three pages, and what I particularly care about is when I look at the review on page 112 of this report on the trust of BiH citizens against courts and prosecutorial councils. Since 1999, it has been evident that the percentage of that trust has been falling rapidly since 1999. It started at six, today in 2008 which we're showing is four. In part, I would also point out why it is so when I observe and listen to what is said in the midst from which I come and the people to whom I belong. And that is that neither the Hague court nor the BiH judiciary has prosecuted war crimes committed against Hrvat in BiH, not by any chance. And that is, there will remain a stain in the common state and in the judiciary and in the prosecution and this country that we are neither equal before the law nor in death. I am particularly concerned that I have information that there have been complete investigations for a year for the monstrous crimes against the Croatians of northern Herzegovina, especially central Bosnia, without prosecutors pressing charges. The only thing that worries me about this except that it is the result of the injustice is: I fear that the foundation of this does not create a political future for BiH. Because, my Bog, 43% of Hrvat are missing in BiH, they must have gathered themselves together and left this and the other side themselves probably killed themselves. They don't belong in BiH either. And secondly (to stay inside as part of what this report offers) is the problem on 1 March 2003. So, I'm taking effect on the legislation... on the criminal procedure in BiH, I, 50 working at the Human Rights Committee, so I think I have material for a good little car in the complaint, which is a lawyer, which is a person... to whom the law that was established 10 years after the work was done. And interestingly, an old law is used for a good number, so someone has decided by his will to start using the new law. And there really is room to deal with it from your side to bring equality between people in the process and judgment of the court. You can't judge the same thing on this basis, and the other on another basis, because someone raised a question before that time, either it is or it isn't. Crimes happened at the same time, it's a war event, it should also approach the conduct of proceedings uniformly according to the same law, not separately and separately and separately. Here, I had so much because I promised I'd be brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5323	Thank you very much. Reports no more, I suggest... Here, we have two reported to listen to both the registered deputies and to hear the chairman of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, then I'd give a break, we're working over three hours. Let's have lunch and get back to work. If that's acceptable, can we do that? Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5324	who remain at work for this year and next. [[no microphone turned on]] So, the essence of this question is, and I know that this is said often and at lower levels: When an effective plan of all courts is being drawn up, and here is the prosecution of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, all these institutions that will lead to the fact that, conditionally speaking, in courts within all jurisdiction, we will solve these cases and thus lead to one equality of all citizens to have all these things decided within a reasonable time, which is why citizens in front of courts are leading this huge number of disputes, which they are obviously now unable to resolve with such an organisation and the number of judges, prosecutors, etc., perhaps even money, perhaps, is a limiting factor, unfortunately, from year to year. Although they increase the number of cases they solve, a constant inflow every year that is huge leads to our... courts not being able to deal with this problem. One more thing I want to say is that I'm a little surprised by the recommendations that we got on page 115, and it's like 1 below 1. Recommends to the authorities of the legislative authority. So it's probably some first measure aimed at by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and our entire judiciary and the prosecution so that we can help them. So, I would rather expect any changes to some procedural, material regulations, and what they aim at is the adoption of five laws relating to amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries - wages at the level of the state; two, at the level of the Federation, one RS and one at the Brcko District level. Here,... I am not running away from it either, so I would also support, of course, with perfectly acceptable reasons to possibly amend and supplement these laws in the direction that people from courts see, prosecutors and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that it will lead to that goal number one that I've been talking about, which is: to come to one reasonable measure that this huge number of 51 cases that are in courts to be resolved, that citizens do not wait for their right and their justice in some cases that may last or five or ten or what I know for how many years. And of course, here I'm going to stop with this, of course, I'm going to stay away and avoid getting involved in specific objects, like our colleague Šaraba did, which I don't think I have a right to, because if it's going to talk about specific objects, then there's got to be a million and a half things to talk about. Because everyone's most important is his case, so we can't, it's tight, especially at the time of the trial, I think it's a matter of getting involved in a judicial matter, and it can't be this way through Parliament and through a discussion in Parliament that puts pressure on judges and courts in a specific case. So the property is what is protected as well as human life, etc. And if we take care of it, then it was necessary to take care of the protection of the property in time so that there was no dispute. And now that the property has been destroyed, of course it needs to be compensated. And without question now, therefore, for God's sake, the community will be damaged. The community and the rope and the wider there are ways and always it is easier... to bear these burdens than an individual. And it can't be broken down to an individual,...whoever it is, not just in a particular case, I don't want in specific cases, because that would mean that we interfere in all millions and a half of cases that... were in courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5325	Thank you very much. We all wander off sometimes, not always criticizing Šaraba. Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5326	I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5327	Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5328	I will join the debaters who at the beginning of their discussion gave a review of this material. I will join in the sense that we have a good textbook in scope and so on and on and on and on. So, one good, good, textbook. I mean, if someone used it for some other purpose, you could find a lot of statistical data processed in this material, so this report can be used by those who might be preparing for some master's work on some issues, because there are a lot of tables, charts, etc. But also, I'll say, at least what I looked at reading this way, that I expected from what I just said, however, more concrete some indicators and data in this material, but about that, then. Furthermore, I will further tie my discussion to something that we maltenes had every day and last time we talked about information about the prosecution's work. We had the opportunity to hear certain comments about a negative perception of the public when it comes to these institutions in BiH. Negative opinion of the public on their work! So, negative one perception. This 52 refers primarily to inefficient work, then a large number, means in the context of this inefficient, lagging subject matter. We had, after all, even here part of the findings on this matter, where even in this material, even in this particular way, even this truth is modestly acknowledged, means that it accepts the public's reaction. I would like to point out further, and we have witnessed these negative reactions,... to refer to the selectivity of access to certain cases in particular, here I will join Mr. Jović's commentary, which I last said when I spoke about the Information on the work of the prosecution, the particular issue of the processing of war crimes, then on the subject of economic crime, means abuse of the situation. So one impression of labour selectivity and prosecution and courts on these issues is that I'm not now giving any other characteristics, meaning public assessments, means we can see for ourselves, etc. Then one mistrust in the work of prosecutors and courts, so I speak to the public, then the public reactions are about corruption in work, the presence of corruption in the work of prosecutors and courts etc. I am interested, and I will ask one question (now in my thinking): How aware of the reaction in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, that is, these objections to the public, that is, how many people who work in these institutions are aware of these negative reactions? Once again they give their judgment in one particular way and people who deal with it more or less with politics, then it gets other connotations. Why am I asking this question? I'm asking this question, because here, right here, close to this annex 1. Recommendations, I guess this is about some Balkan Monitor organisation for 2008, BiH citizens believe in courts and the military, so one finding is given. I can't manage this much right now. If we're witnessing a major public reaction like this and a negative attitude, then I can't support this one here. Or rather, if this material finds this assessment and these NGOs, I think that this material could be found at least in some part of the public and public opinion on the work of these institutions, because we cannot escape from that fact and what we have the opportunity to hear in public these comments. Secondly, I'm gonna make a little joke like this when it comes to these recommendations. I see a lot of these recommendations are given here, they're sorted out, the number is 1, 2, so I don't know how many of these recommendations, so it applies to a lot of some institutions, and first of all there are recommendations that are directed towards the legislative authority in terms of retaining wages in these institutions. If we want to do it again... in some way of this recommendation, I would, so refer to the recommendations and in this part, right here means under regular number 3. Recommendations to the authorities of the judicial authority, I would, at least, mean as a representative or member of this institution maybe put these recommendations first to the authorities of the court on number one, so see means some of these objections in which direction to improve the work of these institutions, then I would order these other recommendations, because I don't think it's correct, so here in the first place are the recommendations put here in terms of retaining wages,... and we have, we are aware of these objections to the public and negative perceptions, opinions, etc., and then sort this out all else. It's kind of my comments, I'm not going to say, here, it can be understood by the remarks, but my comments about this report and my kind of vision, meaning, simply, this report and my comment. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5329	Thank you very much. So, we've exhausted the list of people reported. ... Mr. Koprivica, please. Is there anyone else who wants to go after Mr. Koprivica? Professor Neimarlija. We'll close the discussion with Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5330	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not repeat all that we had the opportunity to hear in the debate so far on the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2008. What I would like to say in the end is that, despite the fact that this document is truly comprehensive and extensive, to include a number of chapters, findings, charts, proposals and a series of measures, I would only end up adding that this document should, in my opinion, contain certain conclusions in what sense with concrete proposals for overcoming the biggest perceived weaknesses in the work of the judicial system in BiH. First of all, in these final discussions, in my opinion, we should make a proposal on how the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council plans to resolve the issues, that is, the question of the old cases which the courts have buried, which we have had the opportunity to hear a number of discussions about. The second issue is the issue of international judges and prosecutors and objections to their work in terms of non-processing of war crimes and selectivity in accessing these cases. The third question is how does the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council plan to address the issue of measuring the judges' performance. A number of cases are mentioned here, i.e. the way these measurements are done so far, the quality of the work of judges, i.e. the quality of the work of judges. Instead of an existing way by the number of cases, is there any other suggestion in this regard? Furthermore, the issue of municipal cases is certainly a question that is significantly burdened by the work of the courts and in what sense the High Court and Prosecutorial Council plans to approach the problem. Also, there is no mention of the issue of mediation anywhere here, a project that has been current in BiH in recent years, what the results of the project are, and whether certain steps are still planned to be taken in this regard. It also mentions more effective means of execution in executive procedures, and does not specify how to access the adoption of these more efficient means of enforcement and what is actually meant. And one particular question is the enforcement of imposed prison sanctions, in terms of lack of adequate capacity, which we also had the opportunity to talk about at the previous sessions. Also, and a number of other questions, not to repeat them, which we had the chance to hear about in this previous debate, and I would only finally refer to the issue of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, or the issue of processing war crimes cases, because indeed, not to be misunderstood, we often have the opportunity to listen to numerous remarks in the public when it comes to 54 years of non-processing of war crimes, first of all, the issue of Voluntary Street, the question of Tuzlana column, the question of Dudaković and a number of other cases. Indeed, in any case, the public expects from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council concrete answers on all these issues. Therefore, since we are not adopting this report but rather receiving it, I would ask the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to answer some of these questions if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5331	Thank you very much. We'll hear from Professor Naimarli now. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5332	The chair, colleagues, guests, without desire, and in particular the ambition of any of my colleagues, I have, of course, the need to say that we, as delegates in this House, still have an obligation to take care of the need for precision, let's say, these vague terms, such as, for example, the concept of the public, in a way that we do say the public in which, for example, the NGOs or some other institutions that offer some research, the results of a public opinion and opinions, offer, however, through the forms, through the proceedings they have carried out, an insight into which the public is being carried out. In fact, the public is divided into us, and when we say the public should see, however, what public it is. There is a Bosnian-Herzegovic political public, but our public is also ethnically, entityally divided, divided and socially. So there are things about which there is a high degree of social consent, let's say, when our salaries are at stake, for example. You can talk about it, but there are also very significant differences, let's say,...if, as far as we've heard, it's not quite appropriate to talk about individual cases, but let's say there's been a prosecution of war crimes. It is not good to refer to the public, of course, when it comes to specific cases, to which the public is concerned. For example, there is quite a different relationship, let's say, the Bosniak public in RS, rather than, I suppose, the majority Serb in relation to the prosecution of war crimes charges at lower these levels. So without desire, especially ambitions to sexise with anyone, but if we're already talking about concrete cases and if we're going to call on the public in these and other situations, it's our obligation, I'd say, for the sake of better understanding and more productive work here to ultimately make that clear. Unfortunately, the dictionary of everyday communication, but also the dictionary of politics and political sciences is not like a dictionary, I don't know, geometry or mathematics, so we know when we say triangle what it means, but when the public says we can obviously think about more, so in that sense I appeal to be more specific, here's the statement. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5333	Thank you very much. So here we heard the professor speak in principle and I'm not quite sure he was talking about this report. Replica, Professor? Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5334	I'm just going to rephrase to my dear colleague, Professor Neimarlija, because I speak clear terms, too. So you've devoted 90% of your exposure to the definition of the public. Those who spoke about the public today spoke of a very specific public. I understand very well. When Mr. Jović spoke about the public, he spoke about the voices he heard from the Croatian ranks. When RS lawmakers spoke, they spoke of the mood that is ruling among members of the Serb people in BiH. Most often Bošnjak avoid that qualification, that expression is used by citizens. Therefore, I have the same understanding and respect for every form of public. The public exists, the perception of the public is created on something. So she did not self-inflicted, so there are some indicators that suggest that she should be questioned if she did not charge, so ask or raise one positive doubt about each action and the functioning of the entire justice system in BiH. So, I would not underestimate that public, however defined or defined, because about this public we often listen to in this Parliament and elsewhere, only this public is no longer called the public, but it is placed under a universal notion of citizens who have never been completely clear to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5335	Thank you very much. I understand that because the professor comes from a civil political option. Here you go, Professor Naimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5336	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5337	If there's a replica on the line, you're out. Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5338	No, I can't do this. I'm just using the right to answer it, so I'm saying it's a replica, and I have no intention of replicating Professor Neimarlija. But here, not to be indeterminate, said 56 Mr. Rajić, I used the term of the public because I believe that we all recognized that public, so I didn't speak specifically, so what are the reactions of the Srbin in RS, which are the reactions of the Hrvat, means both in the Federation and in the RS, means in BiH, and what are the reactions of the Bošnjak. So that's what I meant. The public is divided, I agree with that. So that's clear, but we can't ignore it, on that side I mentioned this and personally I don't think we can ignore those reactions to the public. For me, the public is everything, therefore, the public and the Bosniak people, both Croatian and Serbian. I think we should do it one way and it'll be time for someone to probably have to deal with it. You can't go over these reactions indefinitely, no matter how anyone understands or accepts it, but I think I'm clearer now. So it's not a replica, it's clearer now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5339	I suggest that we rule out more debate on a single concept that we have mentioned and which is not the only thing and the only concept contained in this report. We have a exhausted list of the defendants for the hearing, and I would now like to ask the president, president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Focus on giving answers to the questions you have heard, not going into what you said in your act to present the Annual Report. We all read this report and do not repeat ourselves and do not listen to what the Annual Report says from you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5340	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, representatives of the executive government, media and guests, I would like to express my gratitude for your presentation of the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH at your session today. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has been operating in this capacity since June 2004 under an agreement signed by the prime ministers of the Federation and RS entities and on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, BiH Minister of Justice. According to its structure, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council consists of six Bošnjak, five Srbin, three Hrvat, one other and one international member. In 2008, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council consisted of five judges, six prosecutors, four lawyers and one international member who is also a professional lawyer. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is an impartial body that has its primary task and its original jurisdiction, and I ask you to understand in that sense this report, and my presentation and answers to your questions, which is: the choice and appointment of judges and prosecutors, disciplinary proceedings and the responsibility of judges and prosecutors, the education of judges and prosecutors and ethics. As a partner, he acts with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance of Entity, the Council of Ministers and the Brcko District when it comes to the urgency and efficiency of the courts, when it comes to the budget, or the financing and financing of courts, and when it comes to determining the number and systematisation of judicial officials in BiH. 57 In essence, BiH's judiciary, headed by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, has achieved some observed results in terms of impartiality, independence and professionalism since 2003. Unfortunately, when it comes to the efficiency of judicial institutions in BiH, we are not satisfied here and the BiH judiciary is not in general effective and therefore I understand and understand your questions that you have asked and I will also give short answers. All activities of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council last year and this year are aimed at finding measures, methods and methodologies for BiH's judiciary to become effective. It is not a simple task at all, and that is why it takes a long time, according to my assessment, to feel the efficiency of BiH's judicial institutions. Why isn't it effective? It's not effective because it wasn't effective before 1991, or 1992. During the war period and the postwar period until 1995, or 1996, it almost worked to a minimum. The effects of the war have created an extremely large number of objects that, according to their structure, are particularly property-related where there is no case law or tradition in these areas and beyond to solve such cases. Today, an extremely large number of war - related cases are coming into all the basic and municipal courts. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council adopted the Council's Strategic Work Plan from 1997 to 2012, moving within these frameworks, moving within the framework of the BiH Justice Sector Strategy and the War Crimes Process Strategy. A question asked by Mr. Honorable Šaraba that BiH's judiciary is not high-quality, but I did not get the arguments. I believe that BiH's judiciary is on average; last year there are 14% of decisions lifted according to world standards. That's above average. When it comes to the subject of Alijagić, which you mentioned, it is true that he has been suspended multiple times, returned, etc. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council cannot and must not decide or give any suggestions. Just for the sake of this, in Europe's most developed legal systems, there are objects that have been dealt with for five or six years, all the time being abolished, returned, etc. And it's true that it can happen to the local community to block the budget, but in my later presentation... It may occur that due to certain claims resulting from judicial decisions, which is increasingly the decision of domestic courts and decisions coming from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, more and more significant budgets of more significant institutions may block or bring about this situation. Mr. Šaraba mentioned corruption. I ask him if he has any arguments, if he has information to file charges to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. We don't dispute either, but whoever has an argument, has a D.A.'s office, has authorized authorities, at any time can be filed against those persons. I'm not going to defend anyone here, if you know about the judges, the prosecutors who are prone to it, where there's certain evidence and grounds for doubt, please do so. Koleginica Čolo, a question of composition and structure of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The Koleginica noted very well that the composition and structure of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is unusual and perhaps a little bit atypical for this region, when it comes to Montenegro, when it comes to 58 Serbia, when it comes to Croatia, and in good part when it comes to Romania, Hungary, where in Romania, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council works (if the war period is excluded last year, this year) was celebrated for 100 years, has one exceptional tradition. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council launched an initiative to amend the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. It held a meeting with professional associations, representatives of judges and prosecutors, in September of the month will hold a meeting with BiH justice ministers, entity justice ministers; it will hold a meeting with representatives of parliamentarians in BiH in October; in November a month with scientific workers, academic professors who can make their contribution and importance in creating a high-quality High Court and Prosecutorial Council. It is true that we may be a unique country where the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is composed of judges and prosecutors together, that prosecutors elect judges, that judges choose prosecutors, that lawyers where the biggest objections (and there are four or five) choose judges. That is why we have come into position, and when we can come in a position to immediately propose an initiative, you know who, the Ministry of Justice, the Council of Ministers, and the BiH Parliament will decide whether we have done good or not, but we will not have any initiative until we hear the opinions of the highest public who can give certain useful suggestions for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. You also mentioned the quality of the work, and you led the lawyers to point out that. I've been a lawyer for eight years, I've worked for 33 years, I do everything else as a judge and as judge. Lawyers did not measure the quality of the judge's work. Second-degree decisions and final decisions are the quality of our work. It's true that you've stated that in recent years there's been an alarming number of outdated objects. This report is for the first time realistic and objective. We're taking it out the way it is, for the first time. It came for a lot of reasons because of old age. On December 7th, we held a meeting in Brcko last year with all the presidents of the courts and with the chief prosecutors regarding the limitations of criminal, or criminal prosecution. Two years ago, a reform of the BiH area's infringement procedure was carried out, as a certain delay was in the work of courts for violations. It is one of the most successful reforms carried out by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. These are the opinions of highly qualified regional organisations and experts dealing with the problem. One number of cases, and a huge number of cases in violation, these outdated 70 percent came and received... when the statute of limitations took place. We have accurate data from courts that are cases and whether they are obsolete in court or out of date before coming to court. So 70% of the cases went out of date before they came to court. The other group of cases that are around 22% - 23% obsolete in courts, but your co-worker, since you were a prosecutor, has become an obsolescence for procedural reasons. You know that there has been a population shift in the previous period and that certain suspects, witnesses, are not available, there are no procedural assumptions for resolving these cases. At that time, they are outdated and these objects are now outdated, and that is why legislators and overlooked the Institute of Obsolete. He can't keep standing over a certain person's head in some kind of a felony for ten years. It's clear how far the offense is: when all the effects are lost to act by offense, it's out of date. And you know those deadlines are too short. 59 The second group, i.e. the third group of cases, which is the least outdated for subjective reasons, is concerned by the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor. So, of these outdated objects, 95%, they're all broken. There are certain cases of guilt, it's worrying, where the statute of limitations occurred. But mostly these cases didn't come to court as outdated, but they did come to court, and that's where obsolescence occurred, and that's because you're all generally known: if I feel I have an indictment, if I feel I have a call, I go through Sava, I go over Drina, I go a little further, etc., those faces are inaccessible, they can't be provided, there are no procedural reasons and they can't end – there's obsolescence. You know that court proceedings cannot be completed without carrying out evidence, without hearing witnesses etc. A number of witnesses become demotive for various reasons. Certain things solve biology, witnesses die, disappear, etc., and therefore these objects do not end and, unfortunately, they will not be able to end in quality and a certain age will occur. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as well as BiH's judicial institutions is unable to do anything in this direction. You colleagues mentioned the European Court of Human Rights and you are very well and I am glad you mentioned it. There are 1850 BiH lawsuits at the European Court of Human Rights. Part of the lawsuit is that the courts are ineffective. The biggest problem of the BiH judiciary – ineffectiveness. For years I have pointed to it as a member of the Council, here I am now in a position to manage this institution and all my energy and strength is directed towards it, because I know what ineffectiveness of the courts is. The second group of cases addressed to the European Court of Human Rights are savings stakes. The third group of cases are property damages that occurred during the war. The fourth group of items are military apartments. The fifth group of cases is a disregard for human rights and the freedom of persons who are on the basis of penalties. On the other hand, lawyers are increasingly educated when it comes to these injuries, when it comes to these cases, and when it comes to the European Court of Human Rights, and there will be more and more complaints in the European Court of Human Rights. Dear Vice President Majkić, I would also be changing Article 28. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and it will likely be amended in these amendments. When it comes to the presence of international judges and prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutors' Office and at the BiH Court, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council held an opinion on 25 February this year. We stayed with that opinion. We have not changed that opinion and this opinion has been delivered to all relevant institutions in BiH. When it comes to the election, i.e. the appointment of judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is interviewing as well as with domestic judges and making the choice. There are no other powers. There is an agreement on the presence of international judges and prosecutors between BiH, i.e. the BiH presidency and the OHR, and it is regulated there. I wouldn't do anything about it anymore. One of the esteemed MPs (I didn't remember the name) made an observation to this report, he probably meant the language and the letter. Every year we submit a report in three language versions. One year one, the other, third and two letters. This is the order that adopted and accepted the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. If you have certain objections, put concrete remarks to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we will consider and inform you 60. I fully understand you. The constitutional right of every citizen is that he can ask for it. Mr. Rančić, you discussed the number of pending cases, the number of cases from earlier years, and a large number of cases, i.e. the ineffectiveness of courts and prosecutors. You've noticed that well. However, I would like to inform you that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council delivered instructions, a plan and a programme... in 2005 on the resolution of these cases. All courts and prosecutors have adopted a plan and a programme to resolve these cases. However, there are insufficient numbers of judges and prosecutors, not fully filled with systematicisation. One reason is that these objects are not solved. The fact that old cases are not being dealt with, mainly, is subjective weakness of judges and prosecutors, exclusively the President of the Courts and the Chief Prosecutors who do not lead, according to my assessment, enough control whether these cases are being resolved in order and whether old cases are being solved. I want to tell you that one judge can't solve all the old cases, because these are very complex objects. One part of the old stuff stands. The oldest case in BiH since 1948 has not been resolved, it is a lawsuit. The second in a row is 1953 and has not yet been resolved. There are certain procedural reasons why this is not settled. These items were removed four, five, six times, etc., etc. Interrupts and other procedural interferences have been made which have affected the resolution of these cases, but the High Court and Prosecutor's Council's activities are directed in this direction so that the old cases have to be resolved. Unfortunately, they come by age and others. The High Court and Prosecution Council is not only capable of handling it. It's a system problem. That's the problem of the country. More judges and prosecutors need to be provided. We did a project a year ago on the required number of judges and prosecutors and the project covered all the elements, of the population, of the geographical position etc., etc., what is necessary and what are the reasons. We are aware of the facts, we are also a poor country and we will not be able to provide in due course the full satisfaction of judges and prosecutors in judicial institutions. That's why we're focusing on the existing and we're dealing with it. In certain cases, there is also likely to be selective access to cases. It is subject to disciplinary responsibility. There are judges and prosecutors who have been cleared. There are those against whom discipline is conducted. There are those who have received certain public notices, fines, say, 20%, 30% a year or half a year from salary, etc. However, we live in one environment as it is and do not expect the courts and prosecutors to stand out and that they are something special. We share this environment, but I want to tell you, very objectively, that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is an institution at the level of BiH that has achieved quite good results. That's right, the worst thing is that we're inefficient. If we were effective, there probably wouldn't be any of this criticism and these questions. I don't take this as a criticism, I take it as a suggestion as President of the Council in a way that we can overcome it. Sir: Public criticism would be a happier circumstance if it were a minor criticism of the public. All courts in the world are subject to public criticism. He's got these criticisms. I can claim to myself that I've been a good judge my whole life, and I've been very criticized, very much. It's the risk of our call and it's such a call. But in this criticism... 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5341	We can bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5342	Just a moment, there are probably justifiable criticisms, which is why the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is very much in charge of this account. If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, I'll just give Mr. Koprivica a brief answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5343	Please, just make it brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5344	You, Mr. Koprivic, have made an objection to orientational standards. Orientation criteria also exist on average for all BiH courts and prosecutors to transfer the orientation criteria. We do orientation criteria that will allow for more efficient work of courts and prosecutors. Communal cases, there are 1,400,000 of them in BiH somewhere, and I want to tell you: this problem is also a system problem and this judiciary and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council cannot just solve it. That's why we have the proposals, and we're going to propose to the legislative and executive authorities how to get rid of it. We need to stop the generation of these objects, and then we need to find a way and a modus in the simplest way to solve this. And just to say, when it comes to the execution of criminal sanctions, there is no certain capacity, especially in the Federation, to refer the person to the penalties imposed, which for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is worrying, but we are not authorized to do so, but we are authorized to point out that problem and we have pointed out this problem in good time. Dear Members, thank you very much. I could still talk about this a lot, but since I'm limited in time, thank you very much. If anyone wants to, they can ask written questions and we'll answer that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5345	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5346	Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5347	So we got a lot more exhaustive and exhaustive questions than we, I believe, are individuals, and we expected. We don't, this isn't a thematic session: the president of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is here to answer, and we're going to ask questions now! We have also received answers of high quality and to questions that are not an integral part of this report. So we have satisfied our curiosity 62 beyond what the annual report means. I thank Mr Novković for this, and I do not think that we should continue to open dialogue between us and Mr Novković because this is not the point of allowing Mr Novković to address the House in connection with this report that we are considering. We wanted and half an hour's answers lasted, and I think we've met in a quality way one of the leaders of a very important judicial institution. Since we didn't know him until now, I didn't think he had to give answers for more than half an hour, I think it's enough. We have received quality and exhaustive answers to questions asked. I would therefore, with gratitude for the answers given, conclude the debate, to declare the proposal of the Constitutional Commission as the relevant committee to take note of this Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. I would like to make a statement and ask that we state who is "for" this report so that we can take it to the knowledge. That's a total of 10 from the Federation. Who is “against ” that? One, two, three votes "against", four "against" and one "abstained". So we don't have an entity majority to gain knowledge of. Please, if we don't take it into consideration and if one entity doesn't agree with it, it won't be accepted, we've had a wild debate without any conclusion. I will repeat, so according to our Rules of Procedure, a plea. Because do we have a consensus to fix this situation? No consensus. I'm putting it back on the line. So, are we getting the Annual Report? Who's "for"? I find that 10 voted in favour. Who Is “against ”? Four is “against ” and one is“ abstentioned. ” So the House of Nations did not take it into account, did not accept this report. So, and we have a situation where we've been having a debate and we don't have a view of that report. The Rules of Procedure do not foresee a different exit from this crisis than that the House did not declare the report it had been discussing for almost an hour and a half. I would now, as agreed earlier, give a break. We're in the hall at 4:00, we'll start working. Until then, lunch... [[PAUZA]] We'll keep working. The College suggests that those who were late do not take part in the debate in the follow-up of the session. We also have a full quorum of Bošnjak. 63 We move to point 16. Ad. 16. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1. 7 to 31. 12. 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5350	I only have what the chairman told you. So we have a Joint Commission report. This report was accepted by the Committee unanimously with its conclusions. I'm asking you to accept, because I really don't think there's any need to discuss this report. I'm just obliged to warn you of something: we've only asked for certain corrections, and that's when it comes to the mission of police forces in the missions of peace. There are some inconsistencies there, to be gentle. It's only about the corrections of the number of members of the Peace Corps. The rest is fine, and I don't think there's any need to discuss this report or the other reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5351	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. So I'm putting this report on the record, with these corrections contained in this report on the number of police forces. Who is “for ” and to accept this report? Unanimity. I find that unanimous, with... 13 votes. We're going to point 17, that's "Ad." 17. Impact review report on the subject: "Process of Employment of Civil Servants in BiH Institutions" 64 You've reached the Committee's opinion. The House of Representatives also accepted this report. I'd like to give Mrs. Majkić's word. It'll only take us a moment to get us into the story. We've had a broad debate on the relevant committee on this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5353	Here, the chairman has already said. So, we've had the debate, this is the first impact review, and we've drawn many useful experiences out of it. The audit office has helped us reach one conclusion that will be the basis for further work, and this conclusion says 'that the House of Nations is asking the Council of Ministers to consider the proposed measures from the Impact Review Report: the process of hiring civil servants in BiH institutions, and to propose concrete solutions to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the recruitment process of civil servants, including their expertise and ability to work in BiH institutions and to inform the House of People within three months of the date of receipt of this conclusion.' I hope the next one has a very quick, new impact review. I welcome the deputy... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5354	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. I haven't heard your last line. You've moved away from the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5355	Ms. Vice-General's Auditor-General.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5356	I'm opening a debate. Dr. Ljubić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5357	So esteeming our time and the fact that we're after a big lunch here, I won't be long, but I feel the need to say just a few sentences. So I consider one new approach, so one new level of work of the Audit Office. So far, we have been used to reporting to the auditors on financial discipline, etc. So this is what I think of as one higher level when we're talking about impact review. And actually, this is about efficiency. In the end, we all know, especially us who were in the executive power, how much existing regulation and practice is incompatible with needs. In fact, reports by the BiH institutions' auditors concerning budget unrealisation have been very often, therefore, or largely due to inefficient employment. In fact, you enter 65 with one plan a year, and we know that in our institutions most of the funds withdraw funds for salaries and staff costs, and then because of the long duration of employment procedures, as we see here, which even reach 479 days, means over a year, a year and a half, you get into a situation that you can't hire people and you don't realize the budget and then your financial reports are negative. However, it is one dimension of the problem. I think it is well seen here that this centralized employment, so where the Agency is leading the almost exclusive word, has proved to be inefficient rather than the employment that has been located in the institutions themselves. And, on the other hand, no matter what the intention and the legislator and all of us, when these laws are adopted, that this process brings as much into the normal frameworks, we are all witnessing that he has experienced one of his own, therefore, because to exclude the subjective factor, and that factor which, I say, has resulted in a negative selection, we have come to a situation of approximately collective responsibility, and very often collective irresponsibility, and then the committees that are doing the interrogation, we often know that although publicly avoiding to say,... questions... to individual favored candidates. And then we come up with a perverse situation that experts of the world rank (and I know one example from the field of one veterinary agency) are assessed by negative assessments and lead to these candidates being created in some way and often publicly disgraced, which then demotes the most qualitative people sometimes to report at all to the competition and that we have to take care of it. On the other hand, as a person who's been at the top, management of this, let me put it this way, pyramids in one ministry, I want to say clearly, so personalizing responsibility, even at the risk that it has some subjective characteristics, is much better for me than blowing up responsibility to a lot of factors, and ultimately nobody is responsible for getting the personnel we get. So I think there's room to be in addition to the efficiency of the procedure that means, first of all, the reduction of time, we also deal with the quality of the process itself. And of course it's on the Council of Ministers and on this agency, too, that the ball is in their part of the court, so when it comes to us here in Parliament, of course, we will have our share of responsibility. But I think this is a good approach to the Office of Audit, even though it is focusing so far on the quality of those employees, but on the efficiency of the procedures, and there will be progress when we do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5358	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5359	: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5360	Who are you asking? 66 IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5361	There's no microvon involved... the representative who was making this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5362	Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5363	: Very clear on page 88 to see that one table review of the most important conclusions and measures of working groups has been made, with an assessment of the degree of their realization. As it has been shown in practice that at the level of BiH and the Federation of BiH, it says here, a merger of public and professional exams in one two-part exam would take a maximum of 3 hours, etc. Somehow, it doesn't seem to me in this country,... so at BiH and the Federation level, one exam is being combined, and that's it, another part of the country or not, so is the formation of this selection group in BiH, it also writes to the Federation: one member is being given by the Agency, one member who fills in, and one member from the Agency's list of experts. So if you can just tell me how it works? I kind of don't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5364	Thank you very much. So the question is very specific. Can we ask the audit officer, ma'am?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5365	Dear Mr. Chairman and Honorable Vice-President of the President, Honorable MPs or delegates and guests, I come before the BiH Institution Audit Office as the deputy general auditor in whose jurisdiction is the coordination of activities related to the impact review. You had a chance to read this report and you saw that the existing Administrative Service Act differs between two types of procedures, centralised and decentralisation. Centralised procedures, the law defines that centralised procedures are fully implemented by the Agency, with the Commission numbering five members, of which three members are appointed by the Agency, and two members are appointed by an institution that employs a specific personnel profile. Decentralised procedures, also in decentralised procedures, include five members, but two members are elected before the Agency, and three members in front of the institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5366	If I may ask only Mrs Trninić, so be explicit in answering the asked question of MP Jović. He spoke and he asked a concrete question about state and entity, so the Federal Agency, about not going so wide. So, I'm... 67
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5367	Sure, it's a little vague. I, I must admit, did not fully understand you. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5368	: The document that lies before us explicitly states that practically BiH and the Federation are carrying out the same procedure. Now I don't know if it's an integral part of BiH and RS or just a Federation, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5369	Read it, Mr. Jović, read the question. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5370	You got it. At the level of BiH and the Federation, it is proposed to merge the public expert exam into one exam. You see, BiH and the Federation! It is proposed to combine a public expert examination in one two-part exam, which would take a maximum of 3 hours, etc. I'm interested, because it says here that it's realized, how does it work? How does this work: at the level of BiH and the Federation a combined exam? What about the other half of the country?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5371	Let me tell you, it may be a mistake, but in decentralised procedures, practice has shown that both public exams and expert exams are conducted in one day. And, probably from that point of view, but I suppose it may also be a mistake, and Mrs Ibrahimović, who was the leader of this team, went on vacation; so that she is there, would probably give those answers in more detail. I'm sorry, but I'll make sure you get this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5372	Thank you very much. It is, this is quite imprecise and written, perhaps even wrong, but here, if you will come... in writing the answer, Mr. Jović, it will probably satisfy you. It would have been better if we had made this clear than if we had listened to the answer to an unsolicited question. I thank Mrs. Trninić. Any other questions? Let's access the report's statement. Who is “for” to accept this report? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposed report. The conclusions are in the report, therefore, in the report of the Committee. You had before you this conclusion of the commission, read by Mrs. Majkić. 68 Please state the conclusion proposed by the Committee. Who's "for"? I also find that we have unanimously accepted this conclusion, which we will refer to the Council of Ministers. I'm closing point 17. We're going to point 18, that's "Ad." 18. Report on BHRT's work for 2008 and the Management Committee for the 2007 and 2008 The commission took note of this report after a brief discussion, because we have often exploited this topic lately. The House of Representatives adopted this Report of BHRT for 2008 and the Management Board for 2007 and 2008. Is there a need, Commissioner? Here you go. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5374	Just for a little while, so there's no confusion. This is about two reports. One is the Management Board's work report in two years. Under the Law on Public TV Service, the Management Board is not obliged to deliver a report to Parliament on its work and therefore we propose that this report be taken into account. And the second is the report on the work of BHRTV, and that is the same report submitted by the Management Board, which includes the financial report, and it is an integral part of the next item of the agenda. We suggest that this report be accepted, with this conclusion 'that the Management Board is in charge of continuing these procedures', because they have already opened a tender for the creation of a consolidation strategy, asset assessment, accounting policy development and revision of marketing operations.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5375	Thank you very much. Very clear, very precise. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We will first declare the report on the work of the Management Board of RTVBiH for 2007 and 2008. I'm putting on a plea, please. That's... Here, there's a need, I can't deny anyone a word if they want ten times. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. It'll be short. I know it'll be short. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5376	It's just a sentence. I remind you that we adopted the report on BHRT's work for 2007. We are now only adopting the 2008 report on BHRT's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5377	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5378	And the board of directors only accepts knowledge. But here is an integral part of the Management Board and this report on their work. So, two points, just so it doesn't happen if we adopt the 2007 Labour Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5379	Thank you very much. I've said very precisely what you've just said. So, first we're going to make a statement, so I'm speaking pedanically, we're getting to know the report on the work of the Management Board of RTVBiH for 2007 and 2008, to the knowledge. Who is “for ” to take in knowledge? We unanimously received that knowledge. We will now declare the 2008 report on BHRT's work. Who is "for" to accept this report, with all these corrections through the debate and together with this report of the relevant committee? I also find that we unanimously accepted this 2008 report on BHRT's work. Now we're going to get to the bottom of the conclusions, so in particular, we have this as a whole of one. Who is “for” the proposed conclusions you have received? I agree that we have unanimously accepted the Commission's conclusions. We're going to point 19, that's "Ad." 19. Report on the financial operations of BHRT 2008 with a review of the corrections of BHRT's financial reports for 2007 and 2008 70 The commission said their word. You got that report. The House of Representatives adopted this report with a review of the proposed corrections. Is there a need for Mrs. Majkić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5381	Otherwise, the Parliamentary Assembly has no obligation to adopt this report on BHRT's financial operations. So we here should adopt only the parliamentary assembly reports on work and the review report. So, since we got on a proposal from the Management Board... The report on the work of the Management Board and the Commission proposed that it be accepted and accepted only the 2008 report on the work of RTV and also proposed its adoption. So, we have two things again: to take note of the report on the work of the Management Board for 2007 and 2008 (this is the first time we have discussed and in the future we should not discuss if... we do not have any particular reason to do so), and to accept the 2008 report on the work and propose its adoption, with this conclusion that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the Management Board of the RTVBiH to speed up its activities in the implementation of the tender for the selection of consulting houses for the creation of the BHRT consolidation strategy, the assessment of the value of the assets and the development of accounting policy and the development of the revision of the marketing of RTVBiH.’
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5382	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm going to be very brief and I'm going to repeat one part of what I said in the opening session. I'm really sorry that we didn't wait to get this audit report, which is probably today during the day or tomorrow has arrived or will arrive at Parliament here. Since it will confirm certain things and certain remarks that have been made during a longer time period of our review of this report, because we have indeed been on the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy for a long period of time dealing with this issue of the report and the financial situation in the Elektroprivred, I am really sorry that we have come to this situation to plead without getting our hands on what is called the audit report which has been done and which, at least after what can be heard, confirmed certain suggestions and remarks made by the Management Board and on what the Management Board has insisted. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5384	- Correction of the wrong quote. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5385	Miro, here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5386	: Dear colleague said, we are considering the report of the Elektroprivreda, I will say only in BHRTV.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5387	Very precise, please nice, so we'll take care of all the details and the accent. Who wants another word? Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5388	I don't know if I got it right, but I'm a little confused by the explanation given by Mrs. Majkić. We are now on a point that speaks of the 2007 and 2008 Financial Report of BHRTV, and I have before me the Report of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, which it proposes to the House to take to the knowledge of the Report on the financial operations of BHRTV for 2008, with the corrections for 2007 and 2008 and will be made public when considering the Auditor's Report of BHRTV, and then it connects it to another conclusion which suggests this commission chaired by Mrs Čolo.... to also take note of what we are not obliged to consider as Parliament, i.e. the Report of the Management Board, and invites us to the conclusion that it contains it. If we're receiving knowledge, then we can't make any conclusions about it. My understanding is like that. And secondly, speaking, so when it comes to the Management Board's report, we can take it to the knowledge, and then there's no conclusions. So there's nothing to talk about. And secondly, if we talk about the report on the financial operations of BHRTV, then we can accept it as it is. And the adjustments that will take place in the 2007 and 2008 accounts, and what counterpart Šaraba was talking about (when we get this new report, then we will talk about accepting a corrected report) – we do not know in what sense it will still be corrected. I suggest that we just take this to the knowledge, without any... qualifications, so we receive reports for 2007 and 2008 as they are, and when this correction comes, then we will talk and plead differently. Or, if I misunderstood, I'd like to explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5389	Is there anyone else in need? Is there anything else unclear about what it says in the report of the relevant committee? 72 Mr Ibrahimpašić, please. The sequel was too much, and then he brought in the vagueness.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5390	Thank you. If I am not mistaken, but it has not been long ago, I think I remember that we have concluded on the Commission that we will discuss this financial report as part of the overall audit report. That's what we agreed. Then this... I have no idea, then this is possibly just receiving knowledge, nothing else. That's what we said. Here, who else was on this committee besides me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5391	Dr. Ivanic, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5392	Look, here you have this report... whose correction was made at the request of the board of directors... the corrections were made. So, we do, right, it says "with corrections." I'm sorry, that's what the title says. The title finely reads "The 2008 Financial Business Report, with a review of the correction of financial reports for 2007 and 2008. " And last time, when he was chairman of the Management Board, he made it clear that we weren't satisfied with that report, we hired the man who ran the analysis, suggested adjustments, we adopted the corrections, we suggest you not adopt that information but adopt it with corrections. And the board of directors suggested this to us. That's why I asked Colgu Šarabu, and he's absolutely right, on one condition: that the revizorski's report is dramatically different from that with the correction, you understand. So if this solution to any of Adem's words were to wait for us to come forward when we get the Auditor's report, I don't mind. Although, if there's no big difference, [[Common discussion]] If we don't know, then, because when we adopt him, if we adopt him, we somehow give the legitimacy that everything is fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5394	Thank you very much. Dušanka Majkić, please. Let only the one who thinks it will help get out of this situation, she's... done.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5395	I just said it. Parliament only states two things: an audit report and a work report. We're either on request or in the Dom talks in stories we said we wanted to see 73 of this financial situation. Here we are. But we'll verify him through this audit report. Parliament does not adopt financial reports from businesses. So that's what we're getting at, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5396	... Is everything clear now? And we will accept it or refuse it when we consider this audit report. So we receive the report under this point 19. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? "Sustained"... I apologize, Professor Neimarlija and Šaraba. We accepted it with a total of 11 votes (right?) and two "abstained" votes. Moving to point 20. Ad. 20. Appointment of the chairman, vice-president and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as Independent Authorities of the BiH Police Structure This is a proposal from the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedures for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeals. You have received a report on the establishment of a single list of candidates for the appointment of members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as independent bodies of the police structure in BiH which established the Ad hoc commission. The House of Representatives did that part of the job and he adopted a unique list of candidates for the appointment of these bodies. Before I open the debate, I will give my word to Mr. Branko Zrn, the second vice president of this committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5398	Thank you. These lists that you've got are fully in line... on the Ad hoc commission that did this job. I hope that's how it's gonna be here at the House. And I suggest, Chairman, that you put this committee to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5399	Thank you very much. 74 I still owe it to our rules of procedure to open the debate. Mr Ivanic, Dr Ivanic, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5400	I'll be against this proposal as I was last time for, because I was in a group that decided then. For two reasons, first of all, I think that it is unnecessary to drag this out, one serious job that was a condition for a white visa, for a white system of Schengen visas left aside, and especially after the reasoning I heard in public that – from Mrs. Majkić – it fell last time because there... was my people, under the quotes of my people. I think it's too explicit and too direct an attitude that made something fall and that it's unserious that because of the so-called. My people are not being fulfilled by any of the laws that are extremely important. There was a man in that previous meeting who I thought was doing the job correctly and who could have done it, but if I were to be honest now, since I'm smarter than I was before, there are more people here on this team who I have an impact on than in that first combination. Just for the record, for the record. And I think this is a circus, because this is obviously not an independent committee, but a committee that is politically appropriate to the combination. And I think it's more explicitly said and okay just so we know. But I don't mind, as far as the personnel are concerned, there's something more important about it than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5401	An argument can sometimes be a trick for little Marko. So we understand that. Does anyone else have a need? I'm closing the debate. And I am putting forward a statement on the proposal for a list of candidates for the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structures in BiH, as you have in this proposal. Who is "for" such an independent committee proposal? I figure that's two, five, just a little bit, five and four - nine and two - 11, 12. And who is “against ”? One “against. ” With 12 votes "yes" and one vote "against", with an entity-needed majority of both entities, we received the Independent Committee as a body of police structures. Now we're going to get to the list of the Board of Appeals. I'll open the hearing before that. Is there a need for anyone? Nobody, I'm closing the argument. I would like to make a statement to the proposal from 1st to 7th with the President, the First Deputy and the second, as set out in this proposal. Here, who's "for"? Mladen, it is not "for", it is "against". So we have 11 "for" and one "against". 75 I agree that we have identified 12 "for" and one "against" (so, that is 13) – we have also established a Committee on Citizens' Appeals, with 12 votes "for" and one "against". Moving to point 21. That's ad. 21. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Serb people The candidate list is the Regulatory Agency for Communications, with the opinion of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. You got a ranking from the Regulatory Agency, the commission didn't, so it didn't, it didn't accept, it didn't accept the candidate list. The House of Representatives established, appointed Mr. Aleksandar Bogdanić. It's the first candidate from the rank list. I'm opening a debate or if Mrs. Čolo needs it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5403	So perhaps something from the opinion is clear to you, we have tried to get the Commission's consent to accept this list and propose to the House to elect a member of the board of directors from the order of the Serbian people. But the two votes were "for", two votes "against" for the following reasons. The members of this commission believe that these candidates who have been proposed, and by law means the Regulatory Agency for Communications should propose a double number of the number to be selected. A member of the board of directors of the Serb people is elected instead of Mr. Deretić, who stands the mandate. They proposed a list of four members, there were 10 candidates in the competition, they did not explain why these six failed to enter this list and this commission was mostly votes, not by majority votes, but by 2:2 they felt that candidates were not competent to perform members of the RTTV Management Board. Mr. Aleksandar Bogdanić is a professor of English language in Tesla; Zoran Popović, professor of defence and protection and master of European Studies; Dijana Račić, director of beer production in Banja Luka brewery and food technology engineer and Nikola Vukolić, professor of class teaching. Members of the Commission who voted "against" believe that these candidates are not competent for a member of the Management Board and that is why we could not get the necessary majority on this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5404	Who wants another word? Mr. Rajić, please. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5405	Here, we've been trying at some points earlier to talk about the need to move forward, to show sense of reality and to move towards Europe, but this is an anti-European spell, what I've just heard, what this commission has done. If we depart from the fact that BiH is a tripod, geographically, politically and constitutionally, and that there are three peoples as holders of sovereignty in this country, they are constitutive peoples, and if we conjecture the different structures that make decisions in this country in different places, in different ways, respecting that tripartite position, then it would be least appropriate to respect the will of the people who give the representative, and not to give me... on behalf of them. I would never take the right to disqualify a candidate... who is a candidate of one or another constitutive people, because it is not my right. I can think that candidate isn't the best, but it's my subjective experience. I didn't see you serving yourself on this committee with any argument that there was some finding, some opinion, but you were subjectively experiencing that this candidate was no good for you. Therefore, if we want to do the job honestly and responsibly, come on, let's let ourselves look at each other's teeth: if the representatives of the Serb people should give their representative, they say they support him, then I think we do not need to be so burdened by this question. Or should we say that we have the right to determine everything?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5406	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5407	Excuse me, slowly, without the soufflé. Here you go. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5408	...as well as for the previous criticism of Mr. Božo Rajić, who is at least incorrect. Representatives of the Bosniak people also supported two votes "for" from Mr Ibrahimpašić and me, and representatives of the Serb people who have the right to choose their candidates as we were "against". So that's where you misjudged it a moment ago, when you said that the commission couldn't suggest a conclusion when the report was received. We have proposed a conclusion for this report that we accept, which we are legally required to accept. This is the report on BHRTV's business, and we propose that this report should be adopted by Parliament and we propose a conclusion. This does not refer to the Management Board's report, which this Parliament has taken note of. And please, don't make any assessments that aren't true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5409	Here you go, Mr. Rajić. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5410	Well, Mrs. Čolo, it seems to me that you came from a spoiled house, you've learned to be always right. So I got the information. If the information is incorrect, then tell me - that there was a 2-2 consensus and that the representatives of the Srbin in the commission could not choose their candidate. You are now informing me of a completely different relationship: that you supported one candidate without them. And that's the same thing, it comes back to you again. So, you've supported a candidate that the Srbin who delegate him will not. Is that not exactly the same thing? Allow me, I didn't get into your word. I have expressed my principled position that if the Bošnjak should be delegated to this body, then as a member of another nation, I will support the Bošnjak, not that I should say whether or not this Bošnjak is working for me. I expressed it as a principled attitude. And as for your previous reaction... if something is received to the knowledge, then consequently it produces nothing, then no conclusion is required. So that's my position, very clear and very reasoned. If we're receiving something, we're just saying that we heard it, but we don't have any rights to go on. What do we need conclusions for? Don't be mad at that if someone ever challenges your argument. I would react as well if it were the other way around, that it was a candidate who should be Bošnjak or should be Hrvat, if anyone else takes the right to judge whether the candidate is right. And it's not about this case, it's about principle. But if you say it's the same, you voted for that candidate, the Srbin didn't, so that means the same. There is no respect for the will of a Srbin representative who wants his candidate. And you say it's not the same, and I'm misinformed. It's exactly the same if you vote for the candidate you want or vote against the candidate they want. It's just a hoax, it's a game of words, the essence is exactly the same. And don't be angry, Mrs. Čolo, I didn't personally have any negative attitude towards you, but I do have a negative attitude towards it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5411	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5412	Well, that's very hard to understand and you're a genius.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5413	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić, I'd like to go with the lady more politely. I think you've been very clear and very precise. So there is no doubt now which direction Mr. Rajić is in, I am not his lawyer to interpret his views, but he made it perfectly clear that we should respect the will, therefore, of the people's club in the House of Peoples and bow down to that will. So that's the point and that's the essence of what Mr. Rajić said. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić, and then Mr. Ibrahimpašić will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5414	I really didn't believe that we could have a debate on this topic at all, and I really thank Mr Rajić for at least... protecting this basic principle so that the Bošnjak don't choose representatives of the Serb people or vice versa, regardless of what we vote on. Indeed, Mrs. Čolo and 78 Mr. Adem were in favour of choosing, so he needed another vote to choose who we don't think he is, and to you, it seems to me, a moment ago that someone said, it seems to me that Mrs. Čolo - so who should choose someone who should be involved in solving the most complex problems in BHRT and be a class teacher who is a poet, a free man, would be good for him another fee, or someone who's a technologist in a brewery or someone who's finished defense and protection so that it's this key figure that needs to solve problems in BHRT. Let's be honest with each other, and let's really let that even if you had something, some particular reason to choose one of these people, still keep that people who choose their own representative to say what they think about it. Here's what I'd like to ask for is so much understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5415	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5416	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to remind you of a recent one-session we had here about the election of the Ombudsman and the election of the auditors. And by implicating him who is not Bošnjak in this Bosniak business, which you are now talking about, he was not the man we wanted, but he was a tenth man, so we had to repeat it all. So, we have a practice where everyone uses their voice, lifts it up, and you don't have to, Rajić, what to anger, it's mine to raise my voice, if I'm right, and I have a right and a point. And there's no more talking about whether or not I can vote for someone. Now let me get back to the specific thing. We got the list, I don't know anyone on that list, and we couldn't vote on anyone else who wasn't on the list, and we voted for the list, the two of us. They were against it. Now, who am I supposed to vote for, who isn't on the list, I don't even know where he is? Well, wait, but I got some list of some commission that's probably authorized, is it, otherwise, to come. And that commission didn't find it appropriate to throw someone else but these four. And I wasn't even in a position, believe me, because I don't know anyone who said anything, but he couldn't when he wasn't on the list. These four on the list are by these qualifications suspicious, is it, at the very least, a suspicious suggestion, but I didn't have... any opportunities but to vote for the list. Because the other six that allegedly were and I don't have one. And now you're mad at us for voting for what some commission is proposing that it proposes. And yet, I repeat, don't take away their rights because you took it from yourself when we voted on the auditors.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5417	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5418	Yeah, but after, you did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5419	Miro, allow without dialogue form, allow the man to take out... 79
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5420	Thank you. And... please, I'm not finished. I don't think this whole thing has anything to do with us fighting about this, it's absolutely absolute. I don't know these people, I just respected what someone wrote and who was obliged to write it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5421	We, we argue, we don't fight at all. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5422	Mr Ibrahimpašić, you didn't vote for the list. It is clearly said that Mr. Bogdanić is the one we plead against. So there were four names and we pleaded on Mr Bogdanić, so the first one who was said to be the candidate to be elected. So, the fact is that there are four names here, but Mr. Bogdanić is the first one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5423	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5424	And when you look at their biographies, you can seriously see that none of them can satisfy the performance of such serious and responsible tasks. That's why I was against it. And that's why I didn't want to support any of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5425	Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5426	We did not declare ourselves individually because it would be usurping the right of this home. We were supposed to accept or reject the list, this report to leave it to the House, and then Dom could decide on each name, by voting on each individual. So, we didn't support this list, you have a negative report from this committee, and please, according to the Rules of Procedure, you know what's next.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5427	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who needs to talk about this? Here you go, Professor Neimarlija. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5428	Now thanks to this intervention, Čolo, it is clear to me that this commission has pleaded to accept or not accept the list. But I heard, on several occasions, it was said, I don't know who said it, so there's no value relationship, believe that none of these candidates -- that the reason against the list is because no one meets the requirements. I'd like someone to explain to me why this first candidate (I really don't have any relationship, so I don't know people) doesn't meet the conditions, the master of communicology, the assistant at Communicology, by education, that he doesn't meet the conditions. So, I'd like to be explained. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5429	Anybody got a chance to explain? So, it's hard for you to do that, it's an impression, you know. Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5430	Well, first of all, it's not good for people to talk about here. There are people here who are doing their job properly, very correctly. However, objectively, I think we are in a situation where there were practically no reports of this commission. We need to understand that there have been no reports of this commission, or we need to return it or we need to cancel the competition. There's nothing. There's no third. And let's not waste any time. I must say that there are people here: Mr Popović was a journalist, worked for years in that house, this other man dean of the Faculty of Communications. So it's not like they don't have any knowledge of themselves, these others are less connected to the media, but I think you should go on this procedural opportunity, so either go back or go, I don't know now and more would Mrs. Čolo or you from the College should
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5431	We'll get out of this, we'll get out. Young people, there are solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5432	Well, nothing else, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5433	There are only two solutions: to accept or reject the Committee's opinion because there is no third, so that's it. The commission didn't accept the ranking list, and we got a negative point of view. So, this home if it accepts the opinion of the Committee, the proposed list of Regulatory Agency falls and the story is over. I'm obliged to put on a plea, so a negative view, the opinion of the Commission. Who is "for" to accept the opinion of the Committee? That's five and five, ten. It's been denied and the list of Regulatory agencies has fallen. 81 Let's move on to point 22. Here, the will of the constitutional people from which the candidate should be chosen is respected. I think it's a fair decision of this home. Point 22. Ad. 22. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics You have received a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Council. The House of Representatives adopted the decision and named Varan Hakan as a member of the National Minority Council of Turkey's national minority. I'm opening the debate. Is there a need for someone? I'm closing the argument. Please let us be clear about this. Who is "for" such a proposal? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that, unanimously with 13 votes, we have adopted this decision under point 22. We're going to point 23, that's "Ad." 23. [ BiH Human Rights Special Report on Women's Appeals]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, you've received a report from the Commission in writing. I don't think there's any need to explain this report in particular. The Commission has decided to propose to the House that this issue be addressed in accordance with the 82nd Ombudsmen letter. When I voted at the Commission's own session, I personally voted against this report, because I managed that the corresponding BiH Constitution is a matter of social protection in the jurisdiction of entities, i.e. canton, and therefore these issues, in my opinion, cannot be solved but should be approached by their system-based resolution rather than by partial case-to-case. The reasons for this, first of all, I am talking about my personal views – of course, the Commission has given its report and I am not going to explain it specifically – if I can continue to explain my position which is why I voted against such a proposal. First of all, I handled the example that here is the woman of the birth of Odzak employed in the municipality has the right to compensation for maternity leave, while, for example, her neighbor from the same building employed in BiH institutions does not have this right, and according to the regulations of that canton, of course, or also the woman of the Sarajevo Canton maternity family has this right, and from Posavia and Neretva canton there is no such thing. So it's clear what the problem is. The problem is how this problem should be addressed in accordance with the BiH Constitution and therefore only towards the place of residence, or where contributions are paid. That's my point of view and my opinion. There's a few questions to be asked here. Which is why the Federation of BiH does not implement the harmonisation of these legislations related above all to canton level in the area of social security, and which is why this problem, which is related to the canton, or entity, is to be addressed at the state level. This also raises the question of how this problem was solved before the Law on Salaries was passed in BiH institutions, and how it will, for example, be adopted. persons receiving disability benefits or any other basis for tomorrow's consideration of this partial settlement should this proposal be accessed, as proposed by the Ombudsmen. It's just that if this question were to be solved, that's all. whether they too, and these other categories, will require that their questions be resolved in one way or another. The fact is also that in the RS entity, disabled people do not receive a third of the fees as is the case in the Federation of BiH, which is an additional problem. Where's their pava? Furthermore, this attempt violates the system, i.e. the basis of the Law on Contributions, and violates one principle that social benefits and other charges are exclusively paid and regulated by place of residence, and not by place of employment, so where contributions are paid and contributed. And finally to conclude, the problem is therefore on BiH institutions, but the solution to this problem is in the Constitution with the planned cantons and entities. The problem is therefore practically non-resolved issues in two cantons in the Federation of BiH, it is Posavsky and Neretva canton, and therefore, by estimating all this ahead of what I have pointed out, I am asking the justifiable question whether two cantons need to bring down a complete system of social protection based on constitutional principles, or whether these two cantons bring down appropriate laws, or regulate these issues. It is therefore necessary to label BiH institutions. The solution is to amend these regulations at canton level, not at state level. And finally, to conclude only this fact that I personally advocate the solution to this problem, but in no case are the amendments to the Law on Salary in BiH institutions, but by making appropriate regulations in these cantons. Otherwise, once again I say, this system so far regulated by the Constitution, the social security system would be violated, and I would suggest that in the end we respect the principle that the place of residence, of course, the place of payment of contributions, or the place of the right to compensation for maternity leave. I therefore think that this proposal, i.e. the Special Opinion of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, is about these complaints that women are entitled to compensation during maternity leave and the way that this is proposed is unacceptable and I will vote against such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5437	Thank you very much. Here we have heard, I have invited you to explain to me as Vice-President of the Joint Committee the position of the Joint Committee, you have also discussed your personal position on what you are entitled to, of course, but here I will then invite everyone else to read the opinion of the Joint Commission... in relation to what you have just said. I'm not closing the debate, I'm asking if anyone else wants a word. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5438	I must say that I am really sorry that this is the first report of the new Ombudsman institution and that I am really sorry that I have to vote against it, because this report is not so composed that it could get support, because the problem is not really explained to the end. The basic question they did not answer is this Ombudsman Institution – what is it really about, who is to blame? You did not say..., except that sentence, that the BiH institutions' budget is refunding the maternity leave fee only to employees who have a residence in RS. You didn't say why. You did not say that in the RS the right to compensation to mothers is legally regulated, that there is now a Public Fund for Child Protection where the employer addresses through a first-degree body and where he is granted the right to receive compensation from his mother. You didn't say that. So if such a proposal were to be adopted to amend the Law on Salaries, what would happen to mothers and maternity families who are not employed in BiH institutions? Who would give them that right? So, I think, this report that you've made is not convincing enough and analytically done, and I don't think it should be accepted, and I think it should accept one conclusion that says 'the House of Peoples asks the Ombudsman for human rights, that, in accordance with its competences, it affects the harmonisation of labour and social legislation and at the level of the Federation and its cantons, which will make it impossible to apply different provisions on maternity compensation and discrimination according to the territorial principle'. So that's what you as an Ombudsman have the opportunity to make a step forward, not to learn, to turn out to be Sarajevo..., by some protection only women of the RS foster parents have the right to do so. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5439	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? We're just going to remove another dilemma whether or not the House of Representatives adopted it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5440	I don't think he's adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5441	It says he didn't adopt. So he adopted her, didn't receive her knowledge. If the House of Representatives didn't accept it, now we'll determine it, then we're having a bad debate, we should have stopped the debate, we should have taken this off the agenda, because then it wasn't accepted by the Parliamentary Assembly. It doesn't mean anything to accept the House of People without accepting the House of Representatives. You nod, you support what I say. Now we'll determine if he's accepted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5442	It wasn't enough. It takes nine, and eight is... so one's missing and that's why he came to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5443	And that's why he came to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5444	It wasn't enough...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5445	Wait a minute, we'll figure it out, we'll get out of this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5446	Eight is "against," and nine needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5447	You're only talking about representatives from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5448	No, no, it wasn't an entity...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5449	Yeah, and you were gunning yourself down there, so it came to us, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5450	It's better if they knocked it down than we did. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5451	Well, if so, then we'll do it because he says he hasn't adopted the Special Report at the House of Representatives. It means there were enough entity votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5452	I have, here's a look, it takes nine from the entity; from the Federation of All Eight, the Federation fits. This is in the interest of the Federation just, it doesn't suit us...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-07-23-0.u5453	Please, I must conclude that the House of Representatives has not adopted this report. By not adopting the House of Representatives, we are stopping the debate here and this report has not been accepted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I've just found out, we won't even plead, we shouldn't have even had a debate, because this has been stopped at the House of Representatives. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's point 23. Secretary, did I determine exactly the facts? Okay, let's move on, there's no mistake, because it wouldn't be of any importance to accept the House of Peoples, and it didn't accept the House of Representatives. Point 24 is Ad. 24. Final proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 185 (1) of the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of BiH (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’), No: 88/05) You have received the final proposal for a credible interpretation. The commission proposes to the House to adopt the final proposal for credible interpretation and the House of Representatives adopted the Final Proposal for authentic interpretation. I'm opening the debate. At the same time, I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. So we're voting on a proposal for credible interpretation. Who's "for"? I find that we unanimously accepted this credible interpretation in point 24. Point 25 is 86 Ad. 25. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members in the Joint Committee of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
