ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6022	Can we take our seats, gentlemen representatives? Please, let's take our seats, we'll start working, because we should finish before the jam. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the international community, dear colleagues from the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Just to let you know that there are 14 MPs present today, 5 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. I particularly welcome Dr Ivanić and we look forward to the success of the recovery and to joining the work of our House. Mr Ivo Miro Jović is out of line, he is on an official trip. For the 38th session today, I propose the following 1. Answer questions and new questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 37th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in BiH; 4. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 8. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH – Proposer House of Representatives (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposer of the House of Representatives (first reading); 2 11. Proposal for a General Product Safety Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Market Control in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (first reading); 16. Proposal for a law on tobacco BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 17. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in BiH; 18. Ensuring agreement to ratify the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the "Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme under IPA", under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance; 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on Development Cooperation. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of the Peoples of PSBiH. Still, I ask if anyone needs words. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6024	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, media representatives, respected guests. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposed agenda, my proposal refers to two points and that point on the fourth agenda, as you read the point of the 17th agenda. In point 4, it is envisaged to consider, at the request of the PSBiH House of Representatives, the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122, of course, which we will also decide and discuss. My suggestion is that this law should be considered at least by a brief procedure. Why? This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries, its essence ratio legis this, the basic thing is the urge to establish through this law the pay grade for assistant attorneys. Since you're in last session, we're in last session...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6025	Comrade Rančić, when we get to that point, we now establish the agenda, you don't mind if it's in the agenda. When we determine the agenda and get to that point, you'll get the word. Okay? That would be more correct than now if we were to take time to discuss a point that we hadn't adopted as a agenda yet. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6026	So let me say just a few words for the second point, because if we adopt such a agenda, when I open that question to the 17th point, then you'll say, so why didn't you answer at the beginning of the agenda when we were establishing that thing. Here, what I want about the 17th item of the agenda, and it concerns the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee, is to consider it in the ordinary procedure and to consider this as a first reading, because this is also a proposal from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, whose responsibility is to adopt, i.e. to consider this Rules of Procedure. We who have participated in the work there know that we have returned it twice, there are reasons and you will see when we open the point, when I talk about, that there are reasons, that it is necessary to open the amendment phase, because the Rules of Procedure, which I am responsible, is not in accordance with the Law on Independent and Supervisory Authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6027	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. And that could have happened after the agenda was adopted. So, please, we're talking about the agenda. Any disputed points or any new points? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. The College unanimously established the agenda and the agenda was adopted in accordance with Article 60 of our Rules of Procedure. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. Answers and New Questions The answers were received by gentlemen: Sulejman Tihić, Božo Rajić, Slobodan Šaraba, Mrs Dušanka Majkić, Dr Mladen Ivanić and Mr Hazim Rančić. I read in order how this is answered, or asked questions. I ask Mr. Tihić to show himself about the answer he received. Here you go. Here, until he finds the material, I ask Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received an answer that, in a certain way, corresponds to Mr. Tihić's question. And I wanted us to get a basis for a thematic debate at this home on the representation of the constituent peoples and others on the management duties, i.e. on the functions, appointed persons and total employment in the civil servants and tenants sector. The data I received, unfortunately, cannot be used for the purpose for which I wanted to use for the simple reason that it has also been shown through this response that there is confusion in the 4 interpretation of the provisions, in fact, there are no known rules to determine the proportion of constituent peoples and others in the duties of appointed and elected officials at BiH level. So it is impossible to determine whether what we have here in the table reflects this legal, or constitutional norm, or whether it reflects some other way of interpreting that participation. In response, it is stated, and all this concerns mainly employees in..., civil servants and tenants, when it comes to the Labour Act, the Law on State Service, the Ministrys, appointments, police officers, administration..., everyone is talking about that principle that is already well-known, about the proportionate representation of the constituent peoples and others in the total number of employees in the state administration. However, when it comes to the area that was essential and on the basis of my question, what is the situation with officials appointed to positions in BiH institutions, then they are called in response to Article 9, point 3. The BiH Constitution, which says officials appointed to BiH institutions will represent the peoples of BiH. That is, therefore, one legal and essential qualification that differs significantly from what we encounter elsewhere. So, for example. in the BiH Constitution, which came out in 1996 and 1997, in the publication of the “Official List” of the then Republic of BiH, this article... we received in response here, Article 9, point 3 of the Treaty, in fact, the Constitution of BiH was translated in the same way as in the text of the reply. So that officials appointed to BiH institutions will represent the peoples of BiH. However, the translation of the rules of procedure in the official languages of the peoples, therefore, in the Croatian version of the Rules of Procedure of this House, is said to reflect this, that it will reflect relations between the peoples, etc. So it enters, introduces us into the dimension of proportionality, which is absolutely unacceptable at BiH level when it comes to elected officials representing the peoples. Another, third version appears, which often appears as the subject of political talks, insisting that the representation of the constituent peoples and others be realized on the basis of the proportion, i.e. the population list of '91. the year, which is completely incorrect, completely false interpretation of the provisions of Article 9, point 3. The BiH Constitution. Therefore, I cannot express my dissatisfaction with the answer, the answer is as it is, he is correct, but before the issue of this fundamental doubt is cleared, which is actually the point of Article 9, point 3. The constitution is unusable for any information, including the one that Mr. Tihić sought and asked for other MPs, in order to schedule perhaps a broader debate on the issue. We cannot resolve this before we resolve the issue that is the norm that determines how these issues are resolved at BiH level. So in that sense, in the new question, I'm going to authorize this question another way. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6030	Thank you, Mr. Rajić. We have prepared Mr. Tihić to hear his point of view of the response received.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6031	Ladies and gentlemen, delegates, guests. I took a yearly look at this answer to the delegate's question. I'm not happy, because I asked something else entirely. I asked, and I asked for an answer, about the ethnic schedule in the top 5 positions in the structures of BiH institutions, you know. There's been a response here to some joint chiefs, I don't know, head of the tariff sector, market, so some different departments, departments that are important and can be important. However, I asked for an answer to the question of ethnic representation in the main positions. And whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, or whether it corresponds to the population list of '91. the year, as we see the commitment, constitutional commitment to ethnic representation and constitutional peoples and others. Therefore, I repeat the question and ask that I be given an answer on ethnic representation in the main positions, not now in the structure of an agency, some institutions, some directorates, that right, let us have that answer, too, not to bother, but only in the main positions of the response to ethnic representation, because I believe that it is significantly damaged by the harm of Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6032	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba received an answer to two questions with two sessions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, respected representatives of public information funds. I have three answers here, so I'm going to comment on all three answers. I have to say, I'm completely dissatisfied with all the answers, and, look, I'm going to be on my way. One of my questions was what BiH should do to get the opportunity to export honey to Western European countries. And I received one answer that was, in such a general sense, where only one sentence says that the General Authority for the Health and Consumer Protection of the European Commission did not recognise BiH as a country that can export honey. Which are the reasons why, what BiH needs to do to enable it and people to export honey – not a word about it. So I will specify my parliamentary question in that direction and I will ask clearly to say what BiH needs to do, what conditions to meet so that these people can export honey to where there is a great demand for it. The second parliamentary issue referred to the Municipality of Ravna and the provision of funds to returnees by the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons for the reconstruction and adaptation of their housing facilities. And I got a catastrophic response from which it appears that the funds that were approved in May last year for reconstruction and adaptation are being spent right now, these days. The packages have arrived, they are, of course, divided exclusively by a party criterion, and I must say it openly, through the ruling party's commissioners in Herzegovina, and there is no question about this year's funds. So I assume that these funds will be allocated next year before the elections, only to those who are obedient and to those who belong to one political option. So I will ask and specify a clear question here, ask, it was approved in 2009 by 150,000, of which 100,000 for electricity and 50,000, as it is said, for municipal and social infrastructure. No marks on the people who need to come back. So we need to create conditions without bringing people in. So, I'm going to ask the ministry exactly – will in 2009 provide any marks for people who want to come back, and they will, and they will. And of course, the third question concerns reconstruction of the Trebinj border police building. I'm partly satisfied with the answer just because what it says... but this job went into the business in 2007, and until today, no complete conditions have been provided. In three years, it takes six years to get all the papers and get to work. In three years, BiH has paid more than 120,000 rent marks, and I responsibly argue that this space can only be adapted in a few months. So it's done but slowly, slowly, with a snail's step. And in the end, I'm not happy with the amount of answers I get. So it seems to me that me and Mr. Ivanić, Mr. Ibrahimpašić, when we get the answer, that's half the page, two sentences, but that's why Mrs. Majkić's answer is very, very large and very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6034	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, answer two questions, three questions for two sessions. That shorter answer is a little more extensive than Šarabin, he looks like this, from the Ministry of Transport, from communications and traffic. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6035	So that's that famous question about the CEMT license that's been waiting for a year. Here, I can say that today I am really happy that I finally managed to get this famous answer, although I certainly couldn't study it, but I really want to thank our former colleague Rudi Vidović without whom I certainly wouldn't be here today. So, what actually happened will be seen soon from the SIPA report and I hope that at the next session I will be able to say a few words about this illegal division of the CEMT license for 2009 in the hope that this will not happen for 2010. So I can't say if I'm satisfied with the answer, I'll say when I study this material. The second question that came to me was this tape with the D.A.'s office where I was trying to find out why the D.A. didn't launch an investigation into the Radislav Jovičić case, although, in the explanation of the OHR's shift, he claimed to have committed a series of crimes he had to be prosecuted for anyway. The answers given by the chief prosecutor are degutant and I am ashamed to comment at all, but what is being forced is to see who in this country cares about the chief prosecutor and that he does not account for the BiH Parliament, as the country's highest legislative body, but that he is solely interested in what the OHR thinks about it and finally made this institution and is under his authority such a man and came to the head of the institution. So, I'm really unhappy and so far it's proven that the attorney general can't be any different than the way he's shown this answer. And finally, the third question that is very important for the work of the local community, which is Srebrenica and Bratunac. We have seen that, in fact, the Ministry of Security, according to the Management's reply, has done nothing to turn this border crossing into a permanent, instead of a temporary border crossing, and that it has not made a decision allowing traffic and other goods such as agricultural products, heating wood and other, live cattle and other traffic, ores that are significant there, but in fact, the Regional Centre of Tuzla and Customs Station in Zvornik did not organise, nor did they carry out appropriate technical preparations, nor did they connect to the information system to establish the smooth movement of goods cross-border traffic at crossings in Skelani and Braunc. So, in fact, this solution for which the decision was made has never survived seven. So what happens now? That, on the basis of this temporary border crossing, fruit passes, it is not recorded, so tomorrow it will prove that the border crossing is non-functional, unnecessary and needs to be closed as soon as possible and thus make it impossible to strengthen economic ties with the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the question submitted by the Directorate for Indirect Taxation has only raised a number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6036	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Sir, Dr. Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6037	Ladies and gentlemen, envoys, delegates, gentlemen ministers, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, guests. I don't mean to answer the question, but it's to correct one false allegation. So, Ms. Majkić, in her testimony to the response of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, said one inaccuracy – that the distribution of the permit for this year was unlawfully done, which is not true, did not make any arguments, so neither will I, so to speak, answer...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6038	The SIPA will justify it...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6039	but I assure everyone here present that the allocation of the authorisation has been carried out in accordance with the Regulation, criteria, procedure and way of granting foreign cargo transport licences to domestic...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6040	I have a reaction, so, Mrs. Majkić, in principle I accept it, I completely understand Dr. Ljubić's reaction, but just something, to be patiently clear. You said you didn't study this material well, because it's very extensive and you're going to show yourself to that answer at the next session. I suggest that we wait until we have fully demonstrated that we do not react to Mrs. Majkić's statement, and we do not have that in our Rules of Procedure at all, but no one is forbidden to get the word. So, I'm too much to tolerate, and if you're unhappy, then you'll find a form in which you'll show your dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6041	I don't accept, therefore, an explanation like this. Why? Because in this short answer, which is not justified, it was said that the distribution was done illegally. So that's what he's responding to. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6042	I understood what you said, although we do not have a Rules of Procedure, so we do not really have the intended replication of the answers that the representative received from the relevant body he asked. We're going to install it, so it's possible to solve it. Let's move on. I ask Dr Ivanić to show himself about the answers. Here you go, Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6043	Thank you very much. I had two questions. This question, whether the IMF funds envisioned some of the money for municipalities, satisfied me, but only in the area that came because the RS response came. From the Federation of BiH, I don't know if these funds are shared by municipalities. I think that all three levels of government are in a very difficult situation and that these funds, related to budget and budget revenues, should be allocated by far more money to municipalities. I insist that I also get an answer for the Federation of BiH. And I'm just saying, I'm happy about the answer, but I'm not happy with the amount of 30 million, of the 400 million she got from RS. 30 million go to municipalities which, for the state of the municipalities, is inadmissible, and I think that in the Federation of BiH, as far as I'm concerned, the economic situation is even more difficult because the municipalities are in a far more difficult situation because of the fact that much of the budget is at cantonal level. The second question was referred to the Directorate for indirect taxation and it was said – what is the value of the fiscal cash registers imported, which, as you know, are realised in RS. And very interestingly, the administration could, and I thank her very much for it, she limited herself to whether she could do it all, but she showed that 32,000 registers were imported, that the value by which they were imported, 7 million marks, and in RS, and 32,000 cash registers were sold for 32 million. With customs and VAT, all those tills were worth 10 million. I find that very interesting information that shows on whose burden and how fiscalization has been financed, but using this information I will have in some other circumstances. ...a good answer regardless of what the opposition is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6044	Now, this is the first representative to say he's happy with the answer. One was only partially satisfied. Thank you very much, Dr Ivanic. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6045	Thank you very much. I have received an answer to the question I have asked, and regarding the existence of a practical or agreed reciprocity regarding the acquisition of ownership rights on the property of our citizens, BiH legal entities in the Republic of Slovenia and in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I am from people, from citizens, from institutions dealing with this problem I had the knowledge that, unfortunately, it does not exist and I wanted to ask my question to initiate the Council of Ministers of BiH to solve this issue, 9 since we lived in the former SFRY and that our citizens had, and legal persons, and they gained rights, and these types, in all former republics of the former SFRY. Unfortunately, I am not pleased with the response that the RES, here, and the Council of Ministers of BiH are providing me with an answer telling me how it was resolved, therefore, by regulations and by the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Slovenia. They don't say anything at all if we have any regulations, if we have any international agreements, if we're going to solve this issue, when we're going to solve this issue, but we're quoting what the situation is there. So the answer shows that these countries precisely set conditions in a way that protects themselves or their citizens. And regarding the Republic of Croatia, that there is one part of it by the rules of the Republic of Croatia, and only for one part of BiH, while in the Republic of Slovenia there is this possibility only if it is related to the Law on Inheritance. I, therefore, am not satisfied with this answer and will seek to launch an initiative through the questions, here, to ask our Council of Ministers to launch activities to regulate this issue in the space of all former SFRY republics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6046	Thank you, Mr. Rančić. It is concluded, therefore, that the statement of the answers received. We're moving on to new questions. We have candidates, so far, Mr Rajić, Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Koprivica, Rančić and Šarab. So I'm going to write it down in that order now. I give my word to Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6047	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as I said in response to the answer, to the question, I will now only deepen that thinking and I will ask a new question that should be presented, hopefully, the final realization of that cry that lasts for years in this country, to get a document on which the entire political, legal, economic and social system of this country rests, and that no one in this country has it. If that's normal, then after this question to me it's not normal to ask any more questions. So the lack of authentic text of the Dayton Peace Accords has for years caused doubt that the text is not of anyone's separatist interest. There has been widespread belief that the translations of the agreement into the official languages in BiH have produced random or deliberate wrong translations that produce essential consequences. For example, I state the provision of Article 9, point 3. The BiH Constitution which determines relations for elected officials in BiH and which says the elected, or appointed officials represent the peoples of BiH, which is the same, which is to understand one quality, while other interpretations of this same article to the wolf according to the principle of proportional representation, which is slightly questionable. Several representatives of the House of Nations were the demands to open a thorough debate here on the overall national representation of all BiH institutions, which is impossible to carry out 10 until we have an authentic text in English and equivalent, correct translations into all three official languages in BiH of the Dayton Peace Agreement. In line with the above, I ask the question to the BiH Presidency and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs as follows – is it possible and within which time to obtain from France, as the depositary of the original text of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the authentic text of this agreement, I apologize, I will have to repeat this, therefore, whether it is possible and within what time to obtain from France, as a depositary country, the original text of the Dayton Peace Agreement or the authentic text of that agreement, or a certified transcript, because it is founded on the whole life of BiH. And additionally, which does not have to be included in this issue, if the House does not accept, I propose to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that it commits the Presidency of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as soon as possible to obtain and make available to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the original text or certified copy of the depositary country, France, in English. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6048	Thank you very much. So here we have a question and a conclusion to the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6049	A proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6050	A proposal for a conclusion to the House. Let's just try to get out of this situation. Do they think that we should be able to demonstrate ourselves immediately about this proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6051	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6052	I think it'd be good if we didn't skip it. So the question goes to the address where you point it. I now ask, therefore, the proposal is to declare to the House and to ask the BiH Presidency and the Foreign Ministry to provide copies of the originals of the Dayton Peace Agreement and Aneks iv.e. Home to the people of PSBiH. Who's to suggest such a conclusion? I find that the unanimous Dom has established this conclusion. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6053	Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6054	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6055	They won't get it, there's no...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6056	He won't... depository.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6057	They've got him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6058	I guess so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6059	Let's move on, then, let's move on. Next question, thank you very much, the next question wants to ask Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6060	So my question is again to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office to answer the following questions: 1. Does the BiH Prosecutor's Office intend to launch an investigation into several persons from BiH's economic, political and religious life following an affair published by individual media and after the publication of a map of well-bound and dangerous mafia-terrorist networks? 2. Will the information obtained from the OHR's analytical team be checked by the BiH Prosecutor's Office under the legal criteria or will, as so far, be used to achieve absolute obedience to the intimidation of the person from political and public life? 3. Does the OHR's analytical team operate outside the legal authority with the help of foreign prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? And 12 4. Does the BiH Prosecutor's Office, within the framework of the reformed judiciary, present a real report on its work... to the OHR's power centres, instead of the country's highest legislative body to which it only provides information about its work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6061	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6062	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present at today's session, as well as the guests. As is known, at the 33rd session of the People's House, held on 23 July this year, the BiH Ministry of Finance, the Directorate for indirect taxation, asked the question – Is it true that the goods seized at the border crossings of BiH are falling into storage facilities of the Directorate for indirect taxation, although its value, according to some information, exceeds 50 million KM? In the past five years, how many of the indirect taxation agencies have held auctions on which confiscated goods have been sold, and is the goods seized in customs and criminal proceedings? Is it intended to systematically approach this issue through the possible adoption of specific laws and sublegal acts? As is known, here it is, not until today, although it has been almost half a year, no answer, neither from the Ministry of Finance nor from the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH, I have not received. It is evident that large quantities of goods are failing in the warehouses of the Indirect Taxation Administration, both because of the lack of these auctions to sell them and because of formal obstacles, in the light of the lack of appropriate legal and sublegal acts that regulate these issues, and the urgent need to resolve these issues as soon as possible by adopting these acts and by speeding up the procedures of the auctions. I therefore reiterate this issue at the 33rd session of the House of Peoples and initiate the same initiative that the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate for Direct Taxation raises this issue in terms of the adoption of appropriate legal and sublaw rules to speed up the procedure for resolving the status of these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6063	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6064	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, in response to my statement to the previous question, I launch an initiative tasking the BiH Council of Ministers to initiate a procedure that will establish 13 reciprocity for all natural and legal persons from BiH with regard to the acquisition of property rights with countries of former SFRY republics. Therefore, that there is no reciprocally established right to acquire property on real estate for all natural and legal persons in the former republics, it is necessary, through international agreements, to regulate this issue in order for our citizens and legal persons to be protected and able to gain and protect their rights. The question is also, according to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Finance – Is it true that there are credit assets that are not engaged, activated, and that BiH is therefore paying for foames, or its administrative parts, to certain institutions? What's the amount of the loan? What are the foams we pay, and who's responsible for this condition? In fact, this issue was addressed in the media by the Deputy Finance Minister at the BiH Council and, behold, I demand a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6065	I only ask you to sit down until the end, describe it, give it to everyone, and we'll make a statement about the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6066	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6067	We heard questions. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6068	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One small finding, although I must have answered first, here, I get the last word. I raise two questions, therefore, stemming from the questions I asked at last session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. First of all, what are the reasons why BiH cannot get a licence to export honey and what conditions should all be met? So, the exact answer I'd like to get, so that I can give the exact answer to the people who do it. And the second question is – Does the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons plan to make the municipality equal, in addition to the funds for electrification and funds for the restoration of social and municipal infrastructure, also allocate funds for the restoration of individual housing facilities? I think the questions are quite clear. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6069	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Let it be my sin if you lift it before your hand, but you're in the same basket. Dot's going on. I'm asking, does anyone else need to ask a question? I'm closing point one. We're moving on to point two Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 37th session of the PSBiH People's House I'm opening a debate on the record you've received. Does anyone have needs? I'm closing the debate. I'll put it on the record from the 37th session. Who's for the record? Does anyone mind, abstention? I'm saying unanimously, Mladen, find your charts, you didn't want to make a statement. 1 abstention. Unanimity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6071	I haven't been to the session, how I'm going to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6072	Correct, correct. The minutes of the 37th session are adopted. Point three, Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina You've received a report from the relevant committee. I'm asking Dr. Ljubić to bring us into the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6074	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the envoys. A joint meeting of the Committee for Harmonisation of the Law on Free Zones in BiH was held yesterday. At the session, the Committee elected me president, also in the end, as rapporteur in this House. I would like to remind the MPs and delegates that the House of Peoples passed this law with two amendments that came from this home on my proposal and with four amendments already adopted in the adoption of the Law at the House of Representatives, so yesterday the subject of the consent was two amendments adopted in this House, after 15 adoption of the Law in the House of Representatives. Those are Amendment number I to Article 10, and Amendment number II. in Article 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I would like to inform the House that this Joint Commission has unanimously established that it is proposed for both homes, therefore, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, that these two amendments adopted at the House of Peoples are included in the text of the law so that we can conclude that six amendments total, four adopted at the House of Representatives and two at the House of Peoples, become an integral text of law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6075	Thank you very much, Dr. Ljubić. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I place the report on the statement with the adopted six amendments that enter the basic text and, as such, go to the announcement after the House of Representatives has passed. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the report of the committee of both homes on consent to this legal act. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. We're not discussing the metrics, we're just discussing the procedure. Procedure, whether we accept or do not accept procedure by emergency procedure. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6077	Thank you very much. I'm not for this law to be considered by an emergency procedure. Why? Because in its essence, this law refers to the establishment of a pay grade for an assistant lawyer in the amount of which the ministerial assistants have. In the last session, although I asked you and persuaded you not to delete the Law on the Attorney General's Defence, you, of course, did not respect it and voted the Law in which the Attorney General's office is performed only by the Attorney General and the deputies, and the rest of them are employees, will have some status there, but their status as assistant attorneys is deleted. If you accept today that we are considering this law by an emergency procedure and that it is adopted as such, then there is no amendment phase, we will adopt something that will have no one to apply to. That's why I'm suggesting at least here's a shortened procedure, so that an amendment phase be opened, so that this part can be brought into line with the adopted Law on the Defence, so that it can be applied to people who are employed there. 16 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6078	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Rančić. Who wants another word?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6079	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6080	Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6081	So, if I understand, the proposal is to consider it by a brief procedure, and I really think that we've been working too much lately on the assistant attorneys. So it is obvious that someone in the structure of that institution has found a very good connection with Parliament, and at each session, we have one topic regarding the assistant attorneys. It's a story that needs to be well analyzed and see what it's really about. I do not support, or, our Club, in the section relating to SNSD, for others cannot answer, will not support this being discussed by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6082	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? I would like to make a statement to the House of Representatives' proposal for this law today, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour of accepting the House of Representatives' proposal, to consider it as a matter of urgency. Who's against it? The procedure has not passed, as the request suggests, for an emergency procedure. So now we can decide to go in a short procedure or go in a regular procedure. I am asking you now to make a statement, so it was Mr. Rančić's suggestion that it should go into short procedure and that it could be amended. Who's in favour of this proposal? And I'm against it. So, I support still staying at the request of the House of Representatives, because this is an article, an intervention, and I think we could have this law today. But that's my right. _________(?) 17 [[microphone is not enabled]] Procedures have been accepted for a brief procedure, so let's move on. Point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6085	So you've got this report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. I think it's clear what it's about. This law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, as seen, regulates the issues of the transfer of criminal proceedings from Chapter 17. The BiH Penal Code, the defense by official duty, and the determination of mandatory detention after the sentence of imprisonment for more than 5 (five) years or more, and the erasure of Chapters 30 and 31, since that substance is regulated by the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The Constitutional Commission has unanimously drawn up this report, which proposes that we be adopted and I don't think there is any need to comment further. I propose to the House that we accept this report and adopt this Law on Criminal Procedure, Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Criminal Procedure Act in the text as we have received for this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6086	Thank you very much. Does anyone else need a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Restraint? So I find that two are against the law and that the law has received support in the first reading. 18________(?) In the second reading. In the second reading, I apologize, my mistake. So we passed the Law in the second reading, in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted it. I'm always confused by these two Serbian voices. Point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6089	I also don't think there's any need to explain in detail what you've got in the materials. This is one of the laws that is a condition for visa liberalisation. As you can see in the procedures, given the new aspects and Article 103, point 2. The Rules of Procedure of the PSBiH People's House, in order to agree on certain proposals submitted at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the PSBiH People's House, dated 5.11. In order to resolve these new aspects, amendments from 1 to 5 have been adopted where, as you can see, the Agency's headquarters will be established by the Council of Ministers of BiH within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. In Article 12, when it comes to deputy directors, the term ‘two’ is added, meaning there is not one but two deputies and an amandman III.. in the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption in the name of Article 13 and the Deputy, the words "and the Deputy" shall be deleted. It's the director's appointment procedures. In Article 14, paragraph 3 is deleted. And amandman v., as regards the Commission's election to elect and monitor the Agency's work, needs to be composed of nine members instead of 7 envisaged. Of that, 3 representatives from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, 3 representatives from the PSBiH House and 2 representatives from the academic community, and 1 representative from the NGO sector, so there are 9 members. So, first of all, it is about respecting the principles of equality of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, therefore, the constitutional principle. We, in that sense, have proposed a report like this. 19 I also state the moment that these amendments have been agreed, and the Constitutional Commission proposes that you accept this law with these amendments, and that we appoint a Commission to comply with the members of the House of Representatives, since we now have different texts of the laws that we have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6090	Thank you very much. We're having a discussion. So the question can be discussed. I think it's Mr. Rančić, but we'll give the lady a head start. Here you go, Master Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6091	Please, Chairman, I have a question, can only one of these 10 amendments that have been adopted on the Commission, which 3 amendments are identical to the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6092	You didn't read or understand. I ask Koprivic to give an answer to an esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6093	Here, I'll do it for you. This first amendment, it concerns the Agency's headquarters, was adopted by the House of Representatives. The Agency's headquarters will be established by the BiH Council of Ministers within three months. Next, amandman III., too, and amandman iv.e.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6094	Thank you very much. Any more questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6095	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6096	I'm sorry, it's about my mistake. You're right. I, looking at and reading this report, watched the harmonised amendments that I made, of course, without looking at the Commission's report. So this is about, as far as the Commission's report is concerned. In this first amendment, it is the third amendment and the fifth amendment. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6097	Is that safe now?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6098	Is there something unclear now? There isn't. It's all clear. We have, therefore, 7 amendments more adopted in the House of Peoples than the House of Representatives. Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6099	Thank you very much, Chairman. So, I have one proposal regarding this law,.../microphone off/...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6100	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6101	As regards the examination of this law, I have a proposal, in accordance with Article 112, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, that you, the chairman, and the two chairmans, decide in a way to allow the amendment to take effect today on this law. Here's why. The first amendment adopted, in the last sentence and in the last words, as referred to in Article 2. The bill's proposal deleted the words "and the local level". In the text of the Law, Article 2, in that section, gives the definition of corruption and where it can happen. So the law says that in the sense of this law, corruption means any abuse of power entrusted to a public official or to a person in a political position, on a state, entity, so in the amendment you added to the cantonal/zonal level, to the Brcko District of BiH, and then you deleted the words "or local level" which is an inadmissible and catastrophic mistake because corruption can occur at the level of municipalities and cities. This was defined in the Law, and you have adopted the amendment to delete the part which is the possibility of corruption happening at the level of local self-government or local level, and that is, according to both the European Declaration and our laws on local self-government, it is known to concern the municipalities and the city. And there are budget spendings and possible abuses are either from elected officials or from officials. Therefore, it is necessary... that these words "or local level" are not deleted, but to change, to say "or local self-government or municipalities and cities" in a consistent and later manner... The second amendment, second remark, concerns Amendment II. In Amendment II. you are not consistent, referring to Article 3 and you say in Article 3 the meaning of the term in point c) behind the word "entity" is added the word "countoon County", and behind the word "Brcko District BiH" or the word "local self-government" is changed in the word "municipalities". You see, above in the previous member of the local community, the level, municipalities and cities you delete, and in Article 3 of the word "local self-reliance" you translate only into municipalities, which is not true, because under the local self-government or local level, municipalities and cities are meant. And you know what it is in Article 3, point c), paragraph 1, is prescribed to be public property in terms of this law, mobile and immovable property, as public funds allocated to political parties by the state, entities, so you added canton, Brcko District and local self-government, and then just leave the municipalities, and what about the city of Sarajevo, the city of Banja Luka, 21 Tuzlo, Mostar? And there they have budget funds, and there they are allocated to the parties, and it's possible that abuse can occur, and you've deleted the cities with your amendment, you've left the municipalities behind. And in previous times, you've completely wiped out municipalities and cities as places where corruption can happen. Let's move on, in the fourth amendment you introduced parity. Parity, you know where the existing should be, where it's defined, and you're not enough with one deputy, you want two deputies. Perhaps I could accept that, but neither in the law nor in your amendments, there is absolutely no letter of what the deputy is doing. There's even a wrong calling, and I'll say it later. amandman v. says – In the name of Article 13, the words ‘and the deputy’ shall be deleted. Well, I could accept that, too, but just to read to you, in Article 13, it's called the appointment of directors and deputies. And I could accept it to be deleted, if Article 16 did not read the following, quote "The provisions of this law relating to the Director of the Agency apply also to the Deputy Director of the Agency". Since he doesn't speak anywhere else about the appointment of a deputy director, if you delete that in Article 13, the appointment of directors and procedures applies to the deputy director, so how are we going to appoint them? You're just saying, let's delete the deputy, here we go again, and where else you reacted to prescribe what's called a deputy, there's no. And Article 16 states that all these members relating to the director also apply to the deputy. Now, speaking of this member, because it's about this Article 16, there's no other place to write what the deputy director is doing, and you want two deputies. And what he's gonna do, I don't know. Article 16 says – The provisions of this Act relating to the Director of the Agency also apply to the Deputy Director of the Agency. The provisions of the Director shall apply to Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15, management, appointment, incompatibility and resolution. Now, if Article 12, as in Article 16, applies to deputies, will the deputies do the following. The Agency is run by a director. Will two deputies be running the Agency? Article 2 - The director has a deputy. Will the deputies have any deputies? Article 3 – The Director of the Agency shall draw up an annual work plan of the Agency and draft budget and shall refer them to the prescribed procedure. Will two deputies do the same? And so on. You should know what the director is doing and what the deputy directors are doing. These are my remarks, and I would ask, here, to open this possibility, otherwise, of course, I know that this law is important and we supported it in our first reading, but here we are, as it is. Maybe I should make a little joke. The changes, here, I accept this change in structure and that, the structure of this commission, but it seems to me that it was made in the spirit of this Butmir package of parts of constitutional changes. Of course, this has now been changed by amendment in terms of the participation of each other at home, etc. I mean, I don't argue with that thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6102	I can go from place to place, so take it as an argument, however you want. You see, this is about material injuries, material errors affecting the content and essence of what the legislator has done in the basic text that is changing. The second reading was done, the House of Representatives ended the procedure, adopted three amendments, this is a second reading, we haven't completed the procedure. We'll end it if we decide that, we can decide in more ways. One way to accept, therefore, this suggestion of yours to be article 112. 3b) In practice, use and try to agree on what is necessary to agree and to extend it by one week, in 10 days, for the 15 22 days of the amendment phase, to return it to our Committee, taking into account all these remarks that are essential in nature and to try to get out of this problem in a way that the amendment works in the Committee, to fix it and not to lose this local level in this article that is very important. If we were to accept this report today, we would practically have the law to fall. The law would have been passed. If we didn't accept it, the law would fall. So, I suggest that the House accepts the opening, so the extension of the amendment phase by two weeks and that we remove all these shortcomings that are very important, which Mr. Rančić has elaborated. To conclude the debate, and to reach a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase, that the relevant Committee removes these problems we have heard. Who is this proposal to extend the Amandan phase in two weeks? Does anyone mind? One is restrained. It's Mr. Koprivica. We've accepted an extension of the amendment phase. We've elaborated item 6. We'll be back to her in 15 days. We're going to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) You've received a report from the Constitutional Commission. The House of Representatives accepted this text in the same form. I'm opening a debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who's in? I find that we unanimously accepted, Mladen, yes, yes, yes, we unanimously accepted the bill under point 7. Point eight is, Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6105	I would just like to say, first of all, to thank the House for having patience and understanding that one law, which was problematic at first, had come back once, so the second time to the Commission, finally agreed and found enough understanding that a compromise between what the proposer had offered and what the amendments had come to, was some environment that we managed to agree on. So, once again, thank the House and, therefore, this law will receive its light after today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6106	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill with these four amendments. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for this amendment bill. We have different texts compared to the House of Representatives and therefore, please, the Bosniaks Club to propose one person to agree. Who's that? Hrvat and Srbin think about your person.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6107	Here's Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6108	A Rančić. Branko?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6110	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6111	That's right. When he's gone, let him work when he gets here. Miro Jović. So, Ljubičić? 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6112	Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6113	Mr. Šaraba. The commission in the composition: Mr Rančić, Jović and Šaraba will agree different texts together with colleagues from the House of Representatives. Moving to point nine, that's Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Freedom of Information Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: House of Representatives (first reading) You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the Committee has accepted the principles of this law. At the last session, we adopted that this proposal for a law should be considered in the short procedure, in accordance with Article 121, paragraph 3 of our Rules of Procedure, which means that all deadlines from the ordinary legal procedure are cut in half. I give the word to Koprivici, who is here, therefore, spokeswoman of the Constitutional Commission. Is there a need? Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6115	Mr. Chairman. There's no need to explain anything under this law. We delivered Opinion. I suggest that Dom plead it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6116	Dušanka, do you have needs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6117	So I want to remind you that this law is practically here the second time. We had a very similar law just over six months ago when it was proposed by also the House of Representatives, the proposer was Mr Halilović. That's when we said right, we at the House of Peoples, which was not good in that law, and that's why that law didn't get transitory. Now the same law has come again, although it has been changed in the name, which is what we've made the observation last time, and it's changed at the height of the penalty, but what's actually the problem, which isn't done, which is supposed to be. The proposal again failed to determine who is in charge of overseeing the implementation of the law. Well, in that sense, the issue of introducing criminal provisions is questionable. We don't have whoever's in charge of overseeing law enforcement. 25 The procedure for the exercise of the right to access information shall be carried out in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, which determines the two-stageness of the work, and thus also the protection of the rights of the parties, i.e. the applicant for access to information. The law on freedom of access to information in BiH left the possibility for the applicant to exercise his rights by submitting a legal remedy to the competent authority of the administration, or the court, in accordance with Article 23, paragraph 2. The law, not to read that text now. That's why I don't understand how the motionary thought to impose a sentence without saying whose jurisdiction it is, who's going to do it. So I think this law doesn't make sense because it's not complete. And it is once again shown that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has a terrible handicap that does not have a legislative department. So we do not have someone who will make incomplete or incomplete proposals, which come from parliamentarians, into the prescribed form and put into parliamentary procedure. Here, this is who knows which way to show it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6119	Thank you very much. So it is true that this is the second time we have tried to establish measures and instruments for the effective application of this Freedom of Information Act. I hope, here, in this second attempt, we can do it. The Bošnjak Club will support the adoption of this law. We agreed on a procedure. All the ambiguities or things that we feel should be fixed, each of us has the right, to submit amendments, to see if it's the attempts, the jurisdiction of the department, the courts, the former courts, if there's anyone else who wants to enforce the law and conduct the procedure, I don't mind. So these are variations on this topic. The point is to have instruments to effectively implement this law. And the Bosniak Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6120	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. Ah, Branko, Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6121	I was thinking the same thing just a few words, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6122	Here you go, Mr. Zno. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6123	Ladies and gentlemen, all present. ...we need to support today. I absolutely respect what Mrs. Majkić said. That is what is missing from this offered content, however, this is the first reading and let's give us a chance to get a definitive and final law on freedom of access to information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6124	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the proposal for this act in the first reading. Who's in? I agree, the Federation of BiH plus 2 votes in the order of the Serb people. Who's against it? Restraint? This law has received support in first reading. We're going to point 10, that's Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: PSBiH House of Representatives (first reading) You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Let me just say that in the last session, we told you that this is going according to a shortened procedure, as well as the previous act. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6126	Here, and this is also the second time we have a similar law. Here, I want to remind my colleagues of... what problems follow, in fact, this law. I will remind you that in 2008, this dom adopted an initiative that I submitted in 17.9.2008, an initiative was adopted saying: 1. The PSBiH's people are tasked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit a bill within 60 days to the parliamentary procedure that would finally resolve the legal status of "the Official Journal of BiH". 2. The PSBiH people's home is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to organise "the Official List" as a new institution to finance BiH's budget and the institution's income achieved to benefit the BiH budget. And 27 3. The people's home is asking the BiH Institutions' Audit Office to carry out an audit of the "Operation List of BiH" for 2007. I remind you, 17.9.8. I also asked the question later, and received an answer in the ninth month of this year, when the BiH Council of Ministers replied that at the 77th session of the Council of Ministers of BiH, a conclusion was reached that the BiH Ministry of Justice had tasked with delivering a bill within 60 days to resolve the legal status of the "Official List" in line with the conclusions of the 21st session of the People's House, and after 3.4.2009, the BiH Council of Ministers again decided to reach a conclusion that the BiH Ministry of Justice would be in charge of carrying out the same conclusion in line with the request, that is, the decision of the PSBiH House of Representatives. In the end, the BiH Ministry of Justice drafted a draft law on the public enterprise issue of BiH's official votes, which since 15.4. stands in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Why does it matter what I've listed? So, an attempt to solve the issue of the official messenger institution is now an attempt to get rid of it on the website, so it is an electronic version of everyone, meaning, on the official messenger's website, that all official messengers are available free of charge. And last time I said, therefore, the moment everyone has a free "Official Messenger" will stop funding the institution. So there won't be any money, no one will pay the official messenger anymore. Previously, he's got to get rid of who's gonna pay those people who are employed there. However, I do see that someone is very concerned, it is in his interest, if it is to bring down this institution, I think I should be the last one to defend it, that this is how it is achieved, that by voting this law we will come into a position that this institution will no longer be able to do business.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6127	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, this is true, as well as the previous law, this is our second attempt to supplement the Law on Official Rules and that in the part which regulates this issue, that all regulations, therefore, all the contents of these official messengers are made available in a transparent manner to all natural and legal persons in BiH. So this is a question of one public, one transparency, one availability of important issues contained in the "Official Messenger", so the law, decisions, regulations, etc., what is all in the interest of BiH citizens and legal persons. This is also an important issue from the aspect of the entry into force of regulations and the introduction of citizens and legal persons to those regulations in order to adjust their behaviour against the standards contained there. This law does not touch, nor regulates the issue of the organization. I do not dispute, let 1, 2, 3, 5 proposals come on organisation, reorganisation, from MPs, from clubs, from the Council of Ministers of BiH, from anyone, and what we adopt will be so. Of course, this does not touch the organisation, nor does this law question the financial viability of the "Official Messenger". I have experience in this business, and I am responsible for telling you that, through the publication of ads and other things that are mandatory in "The Official Messenger", that a significant part of the funds slips away. But in the end, even if there were no fening of earnings in the Official Journal, through various publications, it is our 28 obligations, Parliament, that what we adopt, what needs to come into force, allow citizens to learn about it and act accordingly. That's why I'm asking respected colleagues and colleagues to support this bill because it's really in the interest of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6129	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6130	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6131	Before that, the replica, Mrs. Majkić, at Mr. Rančić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6132	Niko one argues that citizens should have insight into what the Official Journal publishes, the Official List institution, no one disputes it. But many countries have settled it in a good way, let's say, Croatia pays the issue, the burden of the state goes and can share every one for free, but we talk, before we start sharing for free, we have to solve the question there people who work. That's what I'm talking about. So, the moment it gets published on the site for free, no one pays the Official Journal anymore. If that's the way to make today's decision and leave that institution without funding, I agree, and that's one way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6133	Thank you very much. So, we got into the metrics, we have an amendment phase after the first reading. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6134	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I was going to say. In principle, we are essentially discussing today the way in which the content of the "Official Messenger" and nothing else can be offered. So that's the principle. Will we also introduce the Internet, or the 21st century, into the process of placing the contents of the "Official Messenger"? And everything else, what's and what's to be taken care of, what Mrs. Majkić was talking about, we'll be doing in phase two. So today we have our first reading, and I do not see any reason why we are overly concerned with the problems we will be dealing with after accepting this proposal in our first reading. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6135	Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6136	Thank you, Chairman. I've only got a brief thought. I think we should postpone this issue, so that we do not plead at this session today on this matter, but rather, I suggest we get the position of the BiH Council of Ministers on this matter. Because indeed, Mrs. Majkić proposed half a year ago, as we all know, to resolve the issue of the general status of "The Official Messenger of BiH". Here, we have a situation before us that we will question its survival, a complete institution, if this text is adopted here. I don't think at this point, we really shouldn't answer that question until we're in a position to see what the fate of the messengers is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6137	I've got three other debaters on file.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6138	But the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6139	Replica. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. That's your second replica. You have a flat on another replica on this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6140	So, Mr. Zno, what I'm talking about is the essence of the law. It can't be fixed in the amendment phase. It's not... The BiH Council of Ministers for a year. We don't have a way to fix it. That's what they're supposed to find the mechanisms they're going to handle. So, there isn't, this is a fundamental question, it enters directly into the principles of the law. So, I'm talking about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6141	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Majkić. Dr Ivanić, come in and see Mr Ibrahimpašić. Dr Ivanić has raised his hand before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6142	I'm sorry. 30 Today we have an unusual session where delegates from the Serb people defend the survival of the common institution, and delegates from the Bosniak people, as usual, turn out to make the mechanism fail. The bottom line is, citizens need access. And as far as I'm concerned, I will support this law. The less money for them, the better, and how the...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6143	That's right, later. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6144	I'm just here to inform this home. The institution does not only make "the Official Journal", it deals with many other affairs. And let me remind you, the profits of this institution were between 8 and 10 million. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6145	That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6146	So, as they spend, where they go, I don't know. And I doubt it goes on purpose in the budgets, etc. Therefore, they have something to finance this from without falling apart. Someone didn't accidentally suggest this the way it is, you shouldn't make a bauk about it. You know, 8 million is a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6147	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6148	Thank you. I think that two issues should be separated here that may, in some ways, exclude each other, so I fear that excluding what Mrs. Majkić was talking about, as the silence of the BiH Council of Ministers at the conclusion of this House, may also be a reason to reject this solution that we need. So, I am absolutely in favour of making changes to the laws that will allow us, to all those interested in BiH, that they can get information through the Internet, not that they have to buy. So, I absolutely am for that. But I'm just as much for the BiH Council of Ministers, and this is how we say it can't behave the way it behaves. It can't... conclude, come on, an initiative by the representatives or..., but the conclusion of the House more than a year old that has obliged them to do a law that will deal with the definition, redefine the position of the institution, was not supposed to, and therefore I think we should, perhaps, seek some way to agree to let this go today, and to reach a conclusion that calls on the Council of Ministers 31 BiH to carry out its commitment to our earlier conclusion. Maybe this is the way out of this situation without destroying...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6149	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea, therefore, a proposal for this law in the first reading. Who's in favor of accepting it in our first reading? Does anyone mind? Restraint? We accepted, with three abstentions, we accepted this proposal in the first reading. At the request of the Bosniak Club, I'll take a break. We'll continue at 13.00 hours, but at 13.00 hours. [[PAUZA]] Tech's ready. We'll start working. Please take your seats. It's been 13 hours and 7 minutes. We're going back to work. We're going to the 11th agenda, that's Ad. 11. Proposal for a General Product Safety Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6154	I really think it would be okay for me and my colleague... to say something on rare occasions when the Law on Gender Equality is spoken at all in this House, and in particular, it is rare to have consent to the passing of such a law. We want to remind that the Law on Gender Equality in BiH was adopted in 2003. Six years after its adoption, we can conclude that its implementation is only partial. In the highest number, and in the highest sphere of social, public and political life, the Law did not live. Representatives of the legislative and executive authorities shall also have responsibility for this. Maybe that's why the need for something more significant to be done on that plan, and I guess that's why this bill is before us today. Meanwhile, since 2003, many things have changed on the European agenda. There is a need for this law to be brought into line with a number of EU directives, with a number of recommendations from the Council of Europe, i.e., with recommendations, general recommendations from the UN – Commission for the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Also, on the basis of experience so far, the promoter has decided that, and what he thinks, that... so far, it's not well settled in the law, that, here, there's a chance for him to fix it this time. 33 What is more important, for the first time we have that the Law is fully in line with the international document, especially... the Convention, therefore, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. What is good in the law, these are institutional mechanisms both in the executive and in the legislative authorities, when it comes to gender equality, but only as an indication. Where is the place to decide on this complex problem that a lot of societies are struggling with and it wouldn't be in vain one of the... goals that it's easy to solve. So we know that at BiH level we have two institutional mechanisms. At the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we have the Committee on Gender Equality, and at the level of the executive government, therefore, the Council of Ministers of BiH, within the framework of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, we have the Gender Equality Agency, which is a gender mechanism, which also improves its status by this law, because the opportunities given to the Agency were recently limited. The funds for carrying out tasks before the Agency were limited, the automatic echo in the field of gender equality was very modest. The same applies to mechanisms that are achieved through this law at the level of entities, which means that there are government and RS and the Federation of BiH, which have very much to step forward and very much work on this part has been done, but... not enough and have in the legislative authority, too, committees dealing with gender equality. In order for all these mechanisms to be able to have full power, they need to be strengthened, materially primarily, by human beings, and to make them truly do what they are competent under the law. This means that, as in the BiH Parliament, it is waiting for the Commission's recommendation for European integration whether or not a law is harmonised, so it should wait and whether the Gender Equality Agency has given its position on whether the law is sufficiently gender(?) sensible or not. Also, what I liked very much was that there was an amendment... of Article 15, which fits with the recommendation that women and men must have balanced participation, meaning that both gender representation in the organ that decides in political and public life should not be less than 40%. So, even though men and women have, even say some women have more, we know that, because we have an opportunity to see within the House of Nations, we know what the situation in the House of Representatives is, therefore, at all levels of government the question of gender equality is not properly represented. I respect, indeed, the great effort both by government and NGOs, the media, the various organisations that are seeking to improve the situation in this area in BiH. Given that the Law was won, so it was done and it was supported by the largest number of actors(?) I don't think anyone here will be questioned to uphold the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6155	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6156	Well, what Mrs. Majkić said is enough of that... I would just point out that BiH hosted a regional conference last month on women's representation in the authorities at all levels, and according to the results presented during the discussions at the conference, 34 have found that BiH is in the pre-lated position towards women's representation, both in the legislative and executive authorities, at all levels. As Mrs. Majkić said, we have since 2003 the Law on Gender Equality which guarantees equal representation of female and male members in the authorities, but of course that date is not implemented in institutions, both states and all lower levels. And we think, given that an interresor working group has been formed in the BiH Parliament, at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the CEC, which is now working on amendments to the Electoral Law, that this Law amending the Law on Gender Equality would also be in line with the directives of the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and with the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, and in particular with this recommendation concerning representation in all bodies that decide on political and public life at 40%, both women and men. We hope that this law, given that it is now in the procedure in the BiH Parliament, will have echoes and have its reflections and in the work of a working group that will work on amendments to the Election Law, because in our electoral system we do not have mechanisms to ensure that women are represented more in the authorities, not at the level of the municipality, nor at the level of the state, and that I do not speak at the middle level of the government, so that the law must certainly find its full support, must find places for its application, rather than remain a dead letter on paper as we do today. Men don't like when we talk about this issue, but I can tell you that at that conference, Dušanka and I and our colleagues from the House of Representatives felt very ashamed that BiH was the last, almost the last country in the region. Only Montenegro is worse than us, and Kosovo is much better than BiH, according to the representation of women in the authorities, especially in the executive government, because of the municipal chiefs, who are about 180, women, I think, there is no percentage of 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6157	Montenegro is worse because of the second part of its name. Only men are allowed to speak, I ask, do any of the men want a word? Mr. Rajić, save us the honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6158	Of course, Chairman, thank you for allowing men to talk about this subject. I realized this is a law on gender equality, not... discrimination against women. So, I support this law as well as many others who talk about establishing a civilization minimum that has long since been abandoned in these parts of our country, but I fear that this law will happen to us, as with many others who... others, and not for themselves, that we will pass a law that will not have real power and I think that, if we want to make serious progress in this area, we must make a great effort to change the fundamental law that regulates the issue of gender representation in all BiH authorities and public life. It's an election law that's been made. like, we have to comb.), from the foundation to the next elections to get a law that would serve as a real life for people in this country, not to be a law where one power has been moved outside Parliament, beyond all BiH institutions, etc. So, by supporting the principles of this law, I'm just suggesting that we make sure that in other legislative areas, when it comes to... especially the Electoral Law, we ensure that this 35 law is implemented. If we don't install the instruments of real control and coercion, if you will, we can call that coercion a democratic coercion, in the Electoral Law, then everything will remain just one bad wish list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6159	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? We will do our best to make sure that in the Electoral Law, I said so at a session of Southeast European Parliamentarian women, and as I sit in the Committee for the Amendment of the Election Law, therefore, it will have my support that a fair and fair solution to the issue and the gentler sex, when it comes to the lists for the upcoming general elections. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Law on Gender Equality. Who's up for this bill? I agree that we unanimously accepted this bill in our first reading. Point 14 is, Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The commission accepted the principles of the proposed law, and in its first reading, the House of Representatives accepted this proposal to amend and supplement the Law. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6161	Thank you, Chairman. Let me tell my colleague Rančić - this is a question that is directly touched by women, but in indirect and men, and without that support we cannot pass. What do I mean about this bill? So the promoter realized that political parties are responsible, and that is, in fact, the biggest part of the responsibility for discrimination against women and this proposal for establishing equality is trying to do it in different ways. So under the current Law on the financing of parliamentary groups, we have the view that we have a legal solution that 30% of the funds are allocated equally to all parliamentary groups, and 70% of the total amount is allocated to the relative number of seats for each place each parliamentary group has at the moment of distribution. So what's the change? To introduce the quota, 30% remains the same, so the allocation to all parliamentary groups, 60% of the total amount is allocated to a relative number of 36 seats, and 10% of the total amount is allocated to parliamentary groups, relative to the number of seats that belong to the less represented half. So, in our case, the Serbian People's Club and the Bosniak People's Club have one female member, one less represented sex, and they will get this 10%. I'm sorry about our colleagues from the Croatian Club who are going to stay for this 10%, but I hope they won't vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6162	Thank you very much. If you need another 10%, the Croatian Club will give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6163	That's what we're going to do with the amendment, my colleague Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6165	The Honorable Chairman. So, I'm not going to detail, in particular, it's not a second reading, it's a first reading, and I wanted to say that in principle, so it's a law that introduces a precise stimulating measure for, here, trying to get us to have sex equal, which we talked about at the previous point. So, here, one of the laws introduces a measure that is stimulating to those who have less sex in their ranks and, of course, me and the Bošnjak klub will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6166	Thank you very much. Although I think it's the opposite of the thesis and it's in the biological(?) the lists of more women than men, so in the future these 10% will be used by men. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6167	Thank you very much. They've made us already in the club-level plea phase. We're called.), here, whether feminism is on stage or not, I won't judge it, but here, it's really logical, actually, this Law on Gender Equality directly caused changes and additions, in this case, the Law on Political Parties. There's not much to say, come on, we're gonna support this and finish this story. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6168	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the financing of political parties in the first reading. Who's up for a bill like this? I find that we have unanimously accepted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, we have an opponent of the gender group who just abstained, not against, I apologize. So, everyone's in favor and Mr. Šaraba is restrained. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6171	Thank you very much. So, the law is in the first reading, as you said, and we at the club were reviewing this law and we said that we would support it in the first reading, so that we could give it a chance to pass the Law. We believe that there are good solutions, but there is also a chance that certain things in this law should be fixed. What, in my opinion, is controversial in this law? Dispute is Article 12 and 13 relating to Article 29 and the addition of Article 29.a(?) Article 13 The essence of these two members is that the Office for Geology and the Institute for Geodetic Affairs is abolished, and it also ceases to work for the Office for Geodetic and Property Legal Affairs of BiH, and that a decision on the status of equipment, inventory and other things, funds for the operation of archives and documentation, official premises and staff in the administration, will be adopted by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. 38 Why is this so controversial to me? These institutions are, in reason, taken over as institutions, as administration bodies, administrative organisations that existed on the basis of the adoption of former laws in this area, so it is said that there is the Institute for Health Protection, Labour and Employment, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural and History and Natural Heritage, the Office for Geodetic Affairs, the Meteorological Institute and the Office for Geology of BiH. It explains that the BiH Council of Ministers has considered this several times, and they have, like, done something there, some plan, that it will solve the issue of these institutions, and in the explanation, it also stands... in some places, as something has been wrong here, it is not the administration, it should stand as management for these affairs and as they have decided to resolve the status of the Board of Geodetic and Property-Justice Affairs, which is absolutely not true, because they do not solve the status, but delete them. If they wanted to solve, as they wrote in the explanation, they would have chosen one of the variants, which is – if the error was in the name of a previous law, changes and additions, so to say, instead of the word "institute" for this, for that, "government", etc. It's not called now, it's been like this so far, it's a mistake, it's called this. Another thing, if they wanted to take over, as a management, within the Ministry of Civil Affairs, because it says that the Ministry of Civil Affairs will take over these jobs, then in one of these members, let's say Article 5, as they said, "The CIPS Implementation Directorate" would be replaced by the words "Identifying Agency", then they would also include this administrative organisation as part of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. They didn't decide that either. Or they would do the next thing -- in the law concerning the jurisdiction of this Ministry of Civil Affairs, they would say that the jobs are you, you, you, you, in the jurisdiction of that ministry, so, let's say, within a sector or some other organisational... I don't see it either. The third version, they could say – an independent administrative organisation, in Article 17, as well as these 27 others, and this 28. So they're saying that they're going to solve this administrative organization, its jurisdiction, the doing of these jobs, the status of workers, equipment, etc., etc., everything that's within its jurisdiction, and they're doing it by pushing us into the law to wipe them out. It's not solving, it's erasing that institution. And will he suggest to us, when he will suggest, in what way, in the form, that's the question. That's why I think these questions need to be clarified in this way. I think this is inadmissible. We need to know exactly if he wants to get rid of the status, whether we want to have a management organization doing these jobs or if someone wants to take that rubber and wipe it out. Of course, this is the first reading, and we will try to make this question even more clear to ourselves, and if it is necessary for the amendment, we will act. Well, of course, against amendments and acceptances or non-acceptances, and we will choose to support the law in the second reading. So these things are controversial to me, those other things there before, here, I'm not troublesome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6172	Thank you very much. I didn't want to interrupt you now, because I always interrupt you, because you entered the details. Here it is mentioned that dozens of administrative organisations, independent or in the form of ministries. You were talking about two and details. So it's like an explanation that we're going to listen to once again when you change your mind in another reading of this law. I'd like to ask everyone else who's reporting for word that we're talking about principles. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6173	Only if I can take one word,... So, here, I respect, so I respect and I want and I want...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6174	There are 12 articles before the 12th and 13th articles, so 12 articles.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6175	Of course, but it's about principles. I generally accept and support that administrative authorities and administrative organisations are resolved in such a way that, that these jobs are done either within the ministry, or that they are administrative organisations within the ministry or that they are independent administrative organisations. It's a principle. I can't accept the principle of where it's said, we're dealing with this issue, and they're putting it in an explanation, and they're doing it in a way that they're introducing Articles 12 and 13 that are erasing this administrative organization. There, it's at the level of principle, and that was an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6176	It's a proposal and we'll decide when we have amendments ahead of us. I'm staying, therefore, with this clear remark that I've told you. Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6177	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, if I'm going to be able to hold on to something that's a speech about principles, but I'm going to start from what, if I get the wrong idea, that you're going to help me get closer to who it is. I'm associated with something contained in the Dayton Agreement. That all institutions in BiH, which do not comply with the Dayton Constitution, must stop acting. If this is the continuation of this process, and I interpret that it is, that these institutions that were established before the BiH Constitution was adopted, as it is, or will be involved in some other activity, in some ministry, in another agency or will stop working, then it is a principled approach for me. Is it a good decision, is it a good concept to take just one of these institutions, practically... I would not enter into it, at least not at this stage, but in principle I support that nothing that is not in accordance with the BiH Constitution can function in this country. [[You don't understand because one of the delegates is whispering.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6178	Thank you, Mr. Rajić. Replica, Mr. Rančić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6179	... On page 2, the reasoning states that Article 29, point 1 of the basic text of the Law, found that the authorities of the administration that existed before the adoption of the Constitution and listed them, including the Department of Geodetic Affairs, would cease, and that jobs would be taken over by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. [[no microphone turned on]] Now, what I challenge, if taken over by the Ministry, then it must be in some organisational unit of the Ministry, must be a administrative organisation within the Ministry, is, and the third variant is to be an independent administrative organisation. They're not... one of the first two variants, which makes sense to me and legal, but they're just erasing this administration. He can't. If it is said that it will take over the Ministry of Civil Affairs, please make sure that the solution is in accordance with that these jobs, people, equipment and everything taken over at the Ministry of Civil Affairs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6180	Thank you very much. Does anyone else need an agent? Easy, Deputy Minister, you'll get your word, I've seen you. Does anyone else need an agent? So, I will now give the word to the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Srđan Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6181	Thank you very much, Chairman. ...to say that there is no desire here to push someone around and there is no reason in this context to put a discussion. The problem of Article 29. There has been since... year and one basic problem in this article is that they have been numbered as administrative organisations and two organisations that have never been. It is therefore two organisations – the Institute for Geodetic Affairs and the Geodetic Office which were entities registered in court and could not be abolished as administrative organisations. So the economic operator can stop in three ways: winding down, bankruptcy, attaching someone else, and it can't stop by what you're going to say, by a law that regulates the administration, to stop working. And that applies to the Geodesy Office. On the other hand, a purely administrative organisation, which is a similar name, is not listed in the Law for geodetic and property-legal affairs. So it's not about the same organization. One is down in the municipality of Novi Grad, the other is here in the BiH presidency building. And this administrative organization that existed as an administrative organization and was on the budget for a time and after '96. For years, it was simply not abolished, it was not financed, it was not paid by employees, and they had to pay that salary to carry out disputes in court. So, simply, this organization... didn't exist in the law. By saying here, two administrative organizations are abolished, the law does not say they are abolished, they are deleted because they have never been an administrative organization. And if a different solution could have been proposed for the Department of Geodetic and Property-Legal Affairs, related to its abolition, the takeover of equipment and things, that's something that can be discussed when the debate on details is held. So, I just wanted to say it's not about the same subjects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6182	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. 41 Would anyone like a word after what we heard? It's a little clearer now. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading? Who is for this bill under paragraph 15? I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration in the first reading. We're going to point 16, that's Ad. 16. Proposal for a law on tobacco in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) You've been given the opinion of the relevant committee. The committee in question accepted the principles. He accepted the principles and the House of Representatives in his first reading. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6184	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to point out how many times I've insisted here at this home to change the Excise Act, especially in this part of the excise on ethanol,... alcohol for our companies that use it as a re-promaterial, starting from pharmaceutical industry to the dedicated industry, therefore, not importing for the production of alcoholic beverages, but for... re-promaterial. The same thing was with the excise that counts on the fried coffee, so we had a double reckoning. And now this is the third thing, so these first two things we've solved through an amendment to the Excise Act, this is now the third thing that brings our companies into the same position and situation as the companies in the environment. I'm saying that I'm very glad that this is how it happened, is that it lasted, but here, that man forgives that it took so long, but now we can... that, when it comes to excises, we have, I won't say that solutions are ideal, but are competitive (?) solutions in neighbouring countries. So, this law and tobacco producers and tobacco processors are now in one piece and that thing... comprehensively, just as it was done in our neighborhood, and we have so far had a nakaradic solution by which we were practically not competitive in products or on our own market. This will have great reprecisions on... our companies, to increase and collect VAT, and, of course, to reduce the pay deficit. That's why I support, not just me, but this whole parliamentary group of us, and I'm glad this is done. ... truth, I wish it were before, but it's never too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6185	Thank you very much. 42 Does anyone else want a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6186	I just want to say for a little while, since we're going to support the principles of this law, but I have to say something. Republika Srpska has passed a tobacco law and it is a good law, which, I think, adopted in 2004, in 2005. Since we did not participate, therefore, the representatives of the RS did not participate in this, we will see, given the number of amendments that have come, whether it is and what kind of amendments it is, and in the second reading, we will make a final decision whether we will support this law or not. I just want it to be known about the decision, so the amendments will be crucial in supporting the law in front of us, from the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6187	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? First, we will declare this law in the first reading, and then we will declare the conclusion proposed by the Commission to this home. Who's in favor of upholding this law in our first reading? I agree that we supported this law with one abstention from the RS. The relevant Committee on Foreign Trade, Customs, Transport and Communications has proposed a conclusion to the House in the following content: - Since the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not yet completed the procedure for adopting the draft law on tobacco BiH, the amendment phase for this Bill is being extended until 48 hours before the meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will be discussed. Can we accept this proposal to conclude our commission? Who's in, please? Does anyone mind? Restraint? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for this conclusion. We're moving on to point 17, Ad. 17. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a proposal and an opinion from the relevant committee. It's the Joint Defence and Security Committee. The Commission accepted the integrated text of the Rules of Procedure. And just to let you know that the PSBiH House of Representatives has not accepted the conclusion proposed by the Joint Commission. 43 I will give the word to the chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, Mr. Zrn. Mr. Zrna, come in. Refer to your conclusion as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6189	Thank you very much. Here, unfortunately, there's been a lot of talk about this Rules of Procedure. First of all... what we did for the first time... regarding the Rules of Procedure, we first, in the first reading of the Rules of Procedure, returned the Rules of Procedure to the task force for work, with our remarks, conclusions and concrete suggestions, which should be changed. This has been done and this is the second version of the Rules of Procedure, which mainly includes those observations which are evident at the session of our parliamentary committee. This did not happen with the other Rules of Procedure that we accepted last time – the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Appeal. At the last session, we accepted the new integrated text of the Rules of Procedure with its comments and proposals. At the same time, however, we also adopted the conclusion that we proposed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to decide on the possibility of opening an amendment phase to the proposed text of the Rules of Procedure. I have concluded from that first announcement by my colleague, Hazim Rančić, that my colleague will ask that we accept the position or recommendation, it is better to make a recommendation made by the Commission to parliament, to allow the amendment phase to be opened to the proposed text. ...we actually got into one problem. This recommendation, quite frankly, in the House of Representatives, means if the text went there in the form in which it came before MPs, if the possibility of accepting a new (?) Amendment phases, meaning that so were the members of the Joint Commission, six of them. Of us 12, we six sit here in this home. Secondly, this is where it's done, so it's probably going to be obvious to all the colleagues from the Committee, because I'm not going to recommend here what and how we're going to do, but I want to warn you about one situation that's a little bit, let's say, in this case and rush. It's a committee that we, the Board of Appeals, forgive me, the Independent Committee, which we've been waiting for for months, should have been established and should have started working somewhere there in the seventh month. Secondly, we know what it means to establish these two committees, and without this, he's still not established, because he can't, he's formally established, but he can't function, he can't work, we know what the condition... The Rules of Procedure, i.e. the functioning of this Committee, on the other hand. So, we have one practical haste to work out a body that many expect a lot, because all the problems that are related to the work of certain security institutions, the problems of appointment, resolution, etc., are solely in this case related to the functioning or operation of the Independent Committee, as an independent police, security body. Now, how do you decide here? It is clear to us, and to me it is clear that I respect absolutely what my colleague Rančić is saying, that the Rules of Procedure, indeed, has shortcomings that are even at the border of material(?) Infringements of legal provisions. I'm just surprised how it went and how it went. It seems easy and easy not to accept our recommendation in the House of Representatives. We have, then, two options. If we accept, then, if we accept what the House of Representatives has adopted, we have a Rules of Procedure, if we accept the recommendation of our committee, then, we know what is happening with the Law – we are renewing the procedure. Can we, uh, do we, uh, do we, uh, do we, uh, do we have any interest? First... in interest, second. So I won't, I'm the official reporter, but I'm the official reporter on the 44 conclusions of our committee, not in the real situation where we, as the House, are the ones who need to get up. This note, found today. I would like, personally, because of these other needs, the practical needs of the independent committee to finish this story today. If we can find it, and I think we can find the modus, because home as a body can do anything, if we can find a modus, let's find it, I'll leave the word to my colleagues, or, please, the chairman, to give the word to my colleagues that they offer a solution to how to get out of this crisis. I don't think we should really get out of here today until we've solved it, we definitely don't solve the matter of this Rules of Procedure. And, by the way, something I have to say here, however, publicly, is notsens, at least in the functioning of Parliament and especially in its working bodies. That's what I briefed our committee on at the last session. We, however, by oral means, mean, in one form of epic narrative, we received a message from the College of the House of Representatives, through the secretary of that home, the following content. I must, unfortunately, use the form of oral narration (?) For I have no others, that we are not called, nor is this content for us, so that the text of this Rules of Procedure is sent to us, that we may deal with it, that we may discuss it. It is Parliament's task, i.e. the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So I asked what the function was, and even suggested that we not discuss this at all, to bring it back to the House, and to ask a representative question – should this Parliament even have working bodies. By that, the working bodies don't need them. So, we will abolish the working bodies and the rules of procedure of these working bodies, let Parliament, brother, do everything, let all debate be discussed and let the only, that is, homes of Parliament make decisions. Here, just along the way, as one terrible illogicality and, it seems to me even disrespecting the elemental culture of the functioning and work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because its legal and also constitutional law(?) It is part of every commission in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6190	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6191	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So the first thing I want to say is, I want us to adopt this Rules of Procedure today and we can do it procedurally. Of course, we should have done so before, at last session, as well as for the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, whose Rules of Procedure we adopted, but that responsibility is not borne by any MPs, nor by committees, but by members of the Independent Committee that we have chosen and who are quite arbitraryly acting and consider themselves superior to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That's how they behave, and that's how they write in their acts, because they unanimously adopted this and they say we accept this, we don't accept this. The Joint Commission has told them exactly twice what they need to fix, they simply won't. So I want this adopted. Well, when it comes to that, I want to trouble the matter of procedure. We know, in fact, that we are making constitutions, amendments, laws, resolutions, declarations, recommendations, decisions, conclusions, there are no procedures for the Rules of Procedure, and we are, under the Law on Independent and Supervisory Authorities, authorized to adopt the Rules of Procedure on their work. This is in Article 2, paragraph 2, which says – Procedure and mode of work of the Independent Committee, measures not prescribed by this law, is confirmed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Committee adopted by the Parliamentary 45 Assembly of BiH at the recommendation of the Independent Committee. So, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is authorized and we have all the powers as well as the adoption of other acts, beginning with the Constitution, amendments, the law, to adopt this. When we have the right to do so, then I draw the conclusion by analogy and logic, and in accordance with Article 143, that we and this act are considering one of the procedures. Whether it's urgent, it's short, it's regular, it's not written, it's not written in which, and it opens up the possibility that we can discuss this in a regular procedure, in a shortened procedure, but certainly, it's not my desire to delay it, we can discuss this and in a way that I can call on the chairman and members of the College to apply Article 112, paragraph 3, yes, here, allow me to act amendedly in the session itself, so that you can make your point. I hope you will support these amendments, because I will explain them and you will see that it is essential things. It is that in several cases, this Rules of Procedure, which is a procedural act, is contrary to the Law on Independent Supervisory Authorities and other regulations. And that's what we've told them twice. The Honorable President, Mr. Krunić, who is here, was at the session, but simply they did not want to appreciate it. And they've made themselves known. They wrote those amendments that we talked about, what they wanted, they accepted, which they didn't, and here it is. So, they believe that they, if not equal, and that hierarchical older body, are also from the Joint Commission, the Commission, as well as from both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So if you let me do any more that, then, first my amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6192	Wait a minute, we're not talking about the amendments. We need to make a statement on the proposal whether we will accept the additional amendments, act today at the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6193	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6194	So, let's not go any further into a story that we haven't yet opened with the House's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6195	So, if you'll let me, just yet, before the plea...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6196	I will allow you everything within the limits of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6197	In some of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, they take on material powers that are not in the Law. For example. They prescribe their right, in one provision of the Rules of Procedure, to say that 46 cannot be replaced by a police organisation manager and his deputy without their proposal. They do not have the authority of the Law, which is contrary to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the ministries and other bodies of the administration where the Council of Ministers of BiH, as executive authority, has responsibility for the situation in each administrative organisation. And we almost changed the rules and just gave them the authority and the right to change. And under this law, they name the directors of police agencies, they also replace them, the Council of Ministers of BiH. No, they defend that no one, not one can do it, and even when they commit a crime, they say, can't start a shift without their proposal. They took it from themselves. I can tell you... Furthermore, security ministers' powers were eliminated in the Rules of Procedure. It's not a question of whether he should have it now or not. I know in principle, according to the Constitution, under the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, under the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, and the Minister of Security and each other minister should have certain powers over the administrative organisations that are part of the ministry. It's indisputable under those regulations. And it says in this law that they are making their proposal of five bosses and deputy bosses to deliver to the minister and the end of the story. Then the minister heads for the BiH Council of Ministers. But here, if the Minister of Security doesn't need to, let's change the law. We passed the Law where we placed ministers in that procedure in one place. They say if the minister doesn't do it, we will. There's no authority in the law anywhere. If we want to give them, let's change the law. Don't let them take rights from themselves that don't belong to them. That's the problem. They are older than Parliament, because they make the Rules of Procedure that we need to adopt, which they take on rights that are not contained in the law. Finally, here's another thing, please, before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6198	Please, you have entered a discussion of the details, and we have not opened a debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6199	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6200	Don't explain the amendments to me until we decide if we're going to accept a debate on the new amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6201	Dear Chairman, nicely please allow me, here's why. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6202	You're taking everyone's patience, so it's not just me. If Dom lets go, I'll let go, talk to him for two hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6203	Please, nice, esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6204	It's against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6205	Please, if I don't explain the essence to you, which is why you're voting, will you or won't you? I'm just asking you to let me explain that you know what this is about, and when you decide whether you're for this or not, you know why. Because if I don't tell you what the key problems are, then that's what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6206	So what he thinks, the rest of them are crazy here, so don't, please, let's make a circus.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6207	Here, just one more thing, please. They take it as their right to compensation, it is prescribed in the law, they are the parliamentary body of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, logistics gives them professional services, the funds for their work are in the budget for which the Administrative Commission is responsible. Gentlemen do not like it, and those in the Rules of Procedure prescribe that their compensation will be in line with some decision by the Council of Ministers, not the Budget of the BiH Parliament and the Administrative Commission. Well, here, if you want them to walk us around like this, well, I just wanted to warn you all, and please support, here, I've shared this, here, four, I don't know, the amendment, to try to fix this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6208	Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6209	Things are always visible, especially when they look behind the hills. Unlike the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, which we have easily and easily adopted, the position of political parties is now seen in which they try to put this interesting committee under their paws. I don't think that's right. In the Act on Independent Supervisory Authorities of BiH Police Structure, Article 2 states – The Independent Committee is an independent body of the Parliamentary Assembly with the powers set out in Article 3. And in 48 members of the 3rd, it primarily says – Procedure and manner of the Independent Committee to the extent not prescribed by this law, the Rules of Procedure of the Independent Committee adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the recommendation of the Independent Committee are laid down. No, once we said, it's no good, people are fixed. So you know what, if the political parties were to be eligible to make this law, or this Rules of Procedure, according to their criteria, you know when? Never. Each political party sees how it will influence that body. I can only imagine what it would be like if this position represented Mr. Rančić was at a time when Mr. Sadović was headed by the Ministry, difficult for us and difficult for the Committee. So I'm absolutely against being touched by anything. I... monitoring that will check what remains of BiH to perform from the last points and please do not drag gum and show what we should not actually show.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6210	Mr. Rajić. Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Excuse me, replica, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6211	My esteemed and esteemed colleague...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6212	Would you please turn yourself in?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6213	Sure, thank you very much. My esteemed and esteemed colleague, a member of the College, I can see from the discussion, these things are not understood. My esteemed colleague was not at the defence and security committee meetings when we discussed this in detail and she did not hear any of this, understood, and I do not know why, then, how it can be referred to and called.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6214	Please, he insults me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6215	The article she read didn't even slow down that part, so I was talking about other members, and that's why I'm drawing the conclusion that you don't understand this. If you understand, then there are other intentions for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6216	We can't insult our colleagues in the House. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6217	No, Bog forbid, Bog forbid.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6218	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6219	How did I insult my colleague?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6220	We all understand, so we can't put someone in a situation that doesn't understand what you're not saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6221	Please, fellow chairman, it's not nice to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6222	It's very nice in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure. Keep talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6223	I have not offended, but I have said it many times, and I have never offended anyone, and I try not to offend them. And several times I said my esteemed and esteemed colleague. That's what you heard. How many times have I given my word to my colleague, Majkić, when he picks up before, I say, it goes without saying...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6224	Small reactions to polite things.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6225	So, please, let me speak. Just because you're interrupting me, that school is where I went and you won't stop me from saying what I meant.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6226	I have no intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6227	Let me continue. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6228	But I'll get you into the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6229	I have the right to answer that. So it's not the SDA, or me, or those who want to prevent something or have an influence. Dear counterpart Majkić, you and your party have just prevented the appointment of the Independent Committee after the procedure in which we participated together. Remember the last round when everything on the Ad hoc commission went through at the House of Representatives, and you knocked down the appointment. I voted for both the first and second time, and all my struggle is to fix this Rules of Procedure, to comply with this law and other positive regulations. And you forgot my first sentence, but I told her on purpose as the first one, because I expected your discussion, and I said that I and the Club were going to bring this Rules of Procedure today. You forgot that. That was my first sentence and she's staying today. And I want us to fix this Rules of Procedure this way and I've asked nicely, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for you to be able to do this. You don't have to do this, but to know that you're adopting a Rules of Procedure that's against the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6230	Second replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6231	There's one inconvenience in all of what Mr. Rančić thinks, since he used to do something in the police department, that the authority to interpret the law and everything that's related to the police structures in this house belongs to him alone. Everyone else is missing it so if I had made a little joke, I would have thought of Adem Ibrahimpašić, who, when the debate was on police reform, said, my Asime, would never have known about you so as not to reform the police, I would be happy to remember that. So don't convince us you're an expert on police structures. Let us have our stand. Whether we understand it or not, we are here, even if we do not understand it, to defend the attitude we have, even if it is wrong. So, please, don't make us think that it's just your opinion and that we'll be very damaged if we don't. I think we'd be very damaged if we did that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6232	Replica, dear colleague Rančić, pa replica, Dr Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6233	Here, I'm not gonna talk about... So, I want to ask her to clear it up for me. [[microphone is not enabled]] Is it possible to propose a suspension by the Independent Committee after the competent 51 authorities have made a judicial or criminal decision as provided for in Article 16. Rules of Procedure? I'm asking you nicely to explain that to me. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6234	Well, let me explain to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6235	There you go, you know it all well and you understand it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6236	I understand that Mrs. Majkić gave up on the replica, that she won't have another Mr. Rančić. Dr. Ivanic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6237	It's very short. I'm glad that my colleagues today are full of strength, will and desire to speak, but I think we should slowly bring this story in and plead. But what I disagree with is the fact that my belief that the Independent Committee is the only one who has the right to replace the people he has appointed. Because if it's done by the Minister, then it's meaningless content of the Independent Committee, just for that. Because if he's independent, so I'm talking about the people he named, and if someone initiated some procedure, so I guess in time the Committee will run a suspension before he gets a criminal conviction, but they'll put him on suspension, not without a job, no, but simply won't be in the role in which he's appointed as long as it lasts, so let him suspect that there's a problem. In my opinion, if the possibility of a shift just spreads to the parts of those they're setting, past them, then there's no need to set people up, then I wouldn't accept that part, because then I think the whole concept of the Independent Committee is too much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6238	Two more replicas. The replica was sought by Zrno, then Ibrahimpašić, then by Rajić's discussion. Bean, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6239	Okay. My replica is all the discussions that have been discussed so far except for the one that Ivanić has now said. We've come out with replicas and discussions from the context of what... we've actually begun to discuss the procedure. Are we going to discuss, accept or not accept amendments by, of course, the opportunities that he gave himself to this home or we will not accept and vote on the law because the law has been discussed, we have not talked about the Rules of Procedure at all, or we will simply vote on the Rules of Procedure. I think we're getting lost too. We all have our Rules of Procedure, and now we have 52 and a proposal of these amendments, compare them with the text of the Rules of Procedure, and we'll all see that we're not so... my people, we almost know this Rules of Procedure by heart, we don't need much explaining who the interpreter is. We've got it all in front of us. I ask you to finish at least procedurally this story.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6240	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6241	Here, I'll just briefly, so I totally support what Ivanić said and what Zrno said, but let me add, what I told Rančić, I said in a joke, I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6242	And I'm in a joke...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6243	Yeah, yeah, come on, we'll erase all the jokes we heard. Mr. Rajić. Here you go. So, seriously, Mr. Rančić, it's all on tape.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6244	Again, one question that I can never clear up and I'm trying to follow a lawyer's behavior, and I think if I follow them, they'll lead me in the wrong direction. This is exactly where lawyers are being violated, mixing the rules of the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the discussion of principles, when it comes to the essence. So if I went astray, then you know who's... guilty. So this is where I get a trilem. Why did we get into a situation, more and more often, to oppose the decisions of the House of Representatives? Sometimes for a reason, and it seems to me, lately, more and more without reason, that through such opposition to the House of Representatives and the introduction into this story of harmonising different texts of the law, some specific political interest would be realized. I don't see any reason to be doing this example here. Secondly, from what I have heard so far from members of the committee who have been tasked with considering the Proposed Rules of Procedure, it may sound harsh, but I have realized that we have an insubstantial Independent Committee that does not respect the opinion of the Committee. And on the third hand, we have double opinions. One opinion is the members of the Committee sitting in session, and the other opinion is here. So I don't want to hurt anyone, I'm just trying to figure out where the problem is. So I'm saying that I'm not for us to filter every time. The House of Representatives' decisions, then I'm not for two reasons. The first reason is that this document that we are talking about is one 53 of the conditions to achieve certain goals and to go towards the visa-free regime. So, I, as an agent, owe you... a job without any phraseological performances, I'm going to vote to settle this with the shortest possible route today. If we were to go to the opening of the amendment phase, proposed by counterpart Rančić today, by applying Article 112, if I remembered correctly, then we inevitably come into a situation where we must form a committee to agree on different texts, and we will again say, it is not about the law, it is about an act adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and must be in the same text, I guess, in both homes. So we're wasting our time again, and we're not going to have this document that represents at least one of the detached items, that we've solved something from the conditions that are... Secondly, I do not believe that the Independent Committee, which has not yet entered office to this extent, is, as I would call it, without too much of a word, that it is self-esteem and self-confident and that it does not respect this Parliamentary Assembly or its committees. I'm afraid it's made more mistakes than just the Committee. Because if you follow, according to this report, then it is clear that the Independent Committee has offered the Defence and Security Committee or as it is called... a name, he has offered a proposal for a Rules of Procedure. The commission considered and found a whole series of remarks, returned the material to work, people re-delivered the proposal and cleaned up so that then the Committee could unanimously, please, unanimously adopt the Rules of Procedure and propose... to open the debate, knowing that the debate would take place in another direction. So I really think that, even if you were right about your colleague Rančić speaking, when he warns about some solutions that are not entirely in line with the law, I think that should have been said at the Committee, not here today. And that's why I don't think we should accept a procedure that would open any amendment debate. It needs to be adopted, and this is not a sacred letter, it can be changed when we see it's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6245	Thank you very much. Yeah, is that a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6246	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6248	So, first thing... The chiefs of police are not appointed by this procedure by the Independent Committee, but by the Council of Ministers of BiH. [[microphone is not enabled]] I say, by analogy, they're in charge of appointing and replacing. They now want to ban the BiH Council of Ministers, that's the catch. Not to forbid them anything, but to interfere with them, Bog forbid, but to perform analogy, who is authorized to appoint, he is also to be replaced. And according to the solution, which they are taking in their own hands, neither the BiH Parliament nor the BiH Council of Ministers, nor anyone else can, just them. Just so you know. 54 The other thing, I thought I'd talk about it, but here, I didn't want to challenge you. On the Commission for Defence and Security, I have thus experienced, responsibly arguing, if there is a transcript we can look at it, the first conclusion written in the report, which the president signed, was not for that. It says that we unanimously adopted. It wasn't adopted, because at that session, on this second one, what report is (?), from Bošnjak we were Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Huskić and I, here, was the president, seven of us were there, you couldn't adopt precisely because we opposed these things. What we adopted was to go to the House and pray for both home and home to open the amendment phase, and we, as a Joint Committee, did not adopt the Rules of Procedure unanimously. This is my attitude and my opinion. I wish he had a transcript, someone else could say otherwise, but it really was. Because, I know, I'm absolutely sure, of course, without our votes it can't go through and you saw what this relationship of strength is, what we wanted, and we wanted to open the amendment phase, but, well, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6249	Mr. Rajić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6250	Just one sentence, then this is a whole new fact. I have not heard so far that any member of the Defence and Security Committee has disputed the authenticity of this report, which says that, unanimously with seven votes, out of all seven votes, you adopted the Rules of Procedure. If you're contesting that, then you're bringing us into a whole new story, then it's a new situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6251	The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Zrna.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6252	Now, remember what happened 20 days ago. Right, it's all written down... that it's here as it is, that we, Hazime, have accepted what's been corrected in the form in which we were delivered. But for that very reason, we have conditionally accepted, because of the initiative that came from the College of the House of Representatives, that the Home alone, or homes, should be discussed by the Rules of Procedure. Almost, not nearly but really conditional on you.(?) Dispute and decision-making and search for anything related to the Rules of Procedure shall be abolished. That's why we did it first, and we accepted the offered one. text. Secondly, because if it hadn't been for that, we wouldn't have made such a conclusion as we did, and we only made the conclusion because those remarks concerning these 4 amendments, which have been accepted at Commission level, but have not been accepted by the legislator of this Rules of Procedure. And that was the reason for this standard to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure (?). But I'm saying, it's really getting a little faceless with this story. Let's finally and definitely decide, my people. We have every option. Offer us, we'll determine the cards of the solution. There shouldn't be a problem anymore, I just keep insisting that we settle this issue today. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6253	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba, Dr. Ivanic. Replica, Dr Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6254	In the document I have here, Mr. Rančić says the Independent Committee is conducting the election procedure for candidates and suggests, as far as I know, the Council of Ministers of BiH's choice, and writes a proposal to replace the executives. It's completely consistent with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6255	But there's where it says no one else can replace them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6256	I suggest a replacement, so it makes perfect sense to me. Anyone else can ask them to check the foundation of doubt and speak their mind, but if some politician thinks he's taking over a police director just because he's a minister, don't be angry, don't defend your minister who hasn't yet, there's no need. And if we have the concept of the Independent Committee, then the Independent Committee is the only one who proposes to appoint and replace. Everyone else delivers a proposal to him, including the minister. Otherwise, it's not independent. That's how I interpret it, and I'll always be there for that attitude, and it'll always be my attitude to the end. I think it's the only consistency. Everything else is a story of independence, and basically giving space to political structures set up by professional people, and we want the police to build a professional structure that isn't tied up, not under the influence of politics. It makes perfect sense to me, and on this, I absolutely don't see any reason for any change.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6257	Thank you very much, Dr Ivanic. It was a replica. Mr. Šaraba, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'll be brief, I want to support this material that came from the Commission and remember how it went 20 days ago at the session when this opinion was determined and forwarded to the House. It was essential that this Rules of Procedure come to the House, and the focus to allow any amendments to be adopted during the period that will come after that, should the conclusion be adopted. So, I think what's written here, really, I really want to say, that it corresponds to reality, that it's true, that it was so, that through the debate, we supported that this Rules of Procedure go into procedure, and that today we get to know whether or not the amendment phase should be extended. And after all this, I would be most fortunate to have this amendment phase extended, because this is something that's going to have a lot of problems. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6259	Thank you very much. I see, no one's answering for a hearing anymore. I thought I'd recapitulate, but in order for someone not to realize that I remind someone, we all understood everything, I'm just going to say we'll first come to the conclusion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, and I'll remind you only – The zatupnički House has rejected the conclusion and accepted the Rules of Procedure. He accepted the Rules of Procedure in the integral text as well as the Joint Defence and Security Commission. I'm putting on a statement of the proposal for a conclusion, whether to extend or not to extend the amendment phase? I prefer not to accept this conclusion. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Who's against that conclusion? We have, what is it, it's 5 and 2, 3, Branko, you'd have to be, you're restrained, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6261	Five and two abstentions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6262	We're... we're nothing, there's no majority. We didn't adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6263	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The conclusion wasn't adopted. I am now putting you on the matter of the Rules of Procedure to make a statement on the Rules of Procedure. Who's for the Rules of Procedure in the integral text?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6264	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6265	Well, that's what we just voted for. Well, we just voted on it, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6266	We just voted on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6267	No, I don't. You voted on the position of the Joint Commission, chairman, of the conclusion that... 57
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6268	Wait a minute, don't teach me, I'm working on the Rules of Procedure, on an act delivered by the Joint Defence and Security Committee where you're sitting. The Joint Commission proposes that the homes be declared whether or not to extend the amendment phase. We didn't accept the conclusion, there's no amendment phase. And your proposal fell into the water along with the Joint Committee's conclusion. I guess we understand each other that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6269	Can I have a sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6270	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6271	Thank you. So by opening the amendment phase in a way that we don't say today, we open up 3, 5, 7, how many days, etc., that's one variant. But the other option is that today, at the session itself, you allow me to do so, which I have asked you, in accordance with Article 112, paragraph 3. You as a college decide it, not Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6272	Do you think it's not contained in the House and what my colleague Rančić was looking for in this... rejection of this conclusion? Do you think you should put his proposal on the record? I'll put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6273	No, no, he's asking the three of you to make a deal. No, Dom, the three of you, to extend your decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6274	We don't have a consensus. We don't have a consensus, so let's move on. Are we clear now?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6275	We did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-11-13-0.u6276	So, I put on the statement of the draft Rules of Procedure in the integral text. Who's for the Rules of Procedure? 58 I'm konstatirati, who's against it? 1 abstention, 2 abstentions. We have accepted the Rules of Procedure of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures. Thank Bog. Here, before we move on to the next point, one of the other things, because we've been waiting for her to be typed, to make a statement about Mr. Rančić's parliamentary initiative. In the initiative, read it, that I am not reading it, you know what it is – To be in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to initiate a procedure that will establish reciprocity for all legal and natural persons from BiH with regard to the acquisition of property rights in the countries of formerly, in the former republics of the SFRY. So, it is practically an initiative to conclude interstate property rights agreements on real estate. Who's in favour of this parliamentary initiative? Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Mr. Rančić's parliamentary initiative was unanimously accepted. We move on to the next two points of the agenda. We're under 18. 18. By way of derogation from the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities for the "Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation Programme under IPA", the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and point 19 is Ad. 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on Development Cooperation I suggest that in the package we give consent to ratifying these two interstate legal acts. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Restraint? I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify these agreements under points 18 and 19. And another small piece of information, given that tomorrow is the day when Mr. Tihić and I, both formally and formally, and de facto and deiure, would take a shift in the rotation of the presidency of our House, I suggest that we do so today, that tomorrow we do not meet just because of this act, that I formally hand over the presidency to Mr. Tihić. We will give a joint statement on behalf of the House through all means of communication through our Public Relations Sector, and I want Mr. Tihić 59 successfully chairing the House in the way we have done so far, because this is the last rotational period in this term, and successful work with the associate, First Deputy Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
