ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22942	Please take your seats... we're already late. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 44th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. So, I welcome all present MPs and our regular guests. Also, I welcome representatives of information funds. According to service data, there are currently 26 MPs in the O.R., which means we have a quorum. His absence from today's session was justified by Mr. Jovan Todorović, while there are no other excuses. So I realize that the session has a quorum and that we can work and decide fully. Ladies and gentlemen, before moving to the opening remarks on the agenda proposal, I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Niki Lozančić, who, by the 11th of this month, chaired this house and remind you that we, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or the Constitution, have done, so to speak, the usual rotation. So, once again, I thank Mr Lozančić, and I declare that both the three of us will make a full contribution to meet our obligations in the follow-up and these coming months. So before we move to the debate on the proposed agenda, we have one thing, so to speak, the previous question, the previous job. In fact, the Central Election Commission delivered the Notice to the House of Representatives on 16 January 2008 concerning the replacement mandate at the House of Representatives, which also provided the decision on the assignment of office to Mr Željko Kuzmanović. After checking that other obligations related to the mandate have been made, i.e. whether this decision has become a forceful one, or whether Mr Kuzmanović has received a certificate and signed a declaration of acceptance, in order not to have the things that had happened before, we have concluded that all the conditions have been met that today Mr Željko Kuzmanović, after giving a solemn statement, assumes parliamentary rights and obligations. In that sense, I will now invite Mr. Željko Kuzmanović to give a solemn statement in front of this house to create assumptions about taking over his affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kuzmanović. 2 Please stand up. ‘I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22944	‘I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22945	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22946	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22947	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22948	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22949	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22950	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22951	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22952	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22953	Thank you. Congratulations, I want successful work. 3 So now we're going to set up a draft agenda. For this session, you received a draft agenda with 17 agenda points. Meanwhile, from the call for a session to a meeting of the College and the Extended College of the House, conditions have been obtained to include other materials for which commission procedures were completed in the agenda. I'll brief you on your changes. We'll go in order, in order of the dots. For point 6. The proposal legal on amendments to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment has been submitted to the Commission for defence and security in order to extend the deadline by 15 days in order to deliver the report. I remind you that at the 42nd session of the House, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we approved an extension of the deadline by 30 days. After the Commission failed to submit a report by the deadline set by the College, we included in the agenda the House’s statement on this request. Point seven has been removed. The proposal for a law on juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences and the criminal protection of children and minors for the reason that the Constitutional Commission has also requested an extension of the time limit for the submission of the report by 30 days, as a large number of amendments have been submitted, and the resolution ministry has requested a period of 20 days to determine, or to clarify, these amendments. For the point of the 9th agenda, the Arms Act proposal, we have received a negative opinion from the Commission on defence and security in the meantime, so this point has been reformed, so the finding ‘with a negative report’ has been added. As the commissions, meanwhile, closed the procedures under their jurisdiction, we included in the agenda: - a proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. This is about reopening the debate in the second reading, after the Commission agreed amendments to the new aspects. - The proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security; therefore, it is once again a negative opinion and there are conditions to put it on the agenda. In line with the House's conclusion, we also included in the agenda a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission for the Insultation of Donor Assets, after yesterday we prepared the text of the proposal for a conclusion and a proposal for members of the Commission at the Enlarged College. These amendments and additions to the agenda were also agreed in the College and yesterday at a session of the Extended College of the House. I am also obliged to inform you that the honourable MP, honourable MP Rifat Dolić, submitted a request for a new item of the agenda that he formulated in the following way just before the House's session. So: 4 ‘Information by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, Assistant Minister of Security of BiH, and the activities undertaken after this event’. The College and one and the other, therefore, and the Expansive College of the House and the College of the House, discussed this request and took the appropriate activities in obtaining the relevant materials, although Mr Dolić has made a somewhat broader explanation that can also serve as a basis for discussion. And in the meantime, before the very beginning of this session, we got it, and I think it's divided into benches, two documents. So, one information from Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, which reflects the possibility of getting this information, but in the meantime, we received one piece of information from the resolution ministry. So these are the data you need to know when deciding to include this item on the agenda. So, the House will decide and determine this request. In the context of the debate on the draft agenda, we remain to be determined according to this issue, that is, this request. You're what I'm talking about now getting reformed, or transferred to the agenda that you have in front of you. I hope you've all got the possible final appearance of the agenda. And here I am opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22955	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, ladies and gentlemen, namely, at the last session of the House of Representatives, I asked that the agenda be placed on the agenda, which is ‘The report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2008.’. In this regard, I also quoted the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, so Article 163 (1) and reminded that according to our Rules of Procedure, the Council of Ministers has an obligation to submit its report once a year. This is the second year of the term of office that has expired, and the Council of Ministers has not yet acted on the current Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I must say that in last session, when I asked for this item of the agenda, the then chairman, Mr. Lozančić, said that this proposal, or report, would be requested by the Council of Ministers, and would officially refer to the College. I expected to hear what the College would say about this, whether it took what we concluded at the House of Representatives, and, if it did, was it possible that the Council of Ministers had gone deaf again about the request of the College and the House of Representatives. So I'm looking again to put that agenda item on today. However, if you think of it the second time in the College, and it is evident that we do not have such a report again, I suggest that we adopt a compromise proposal at this session to try to overcome the fact that we are violating the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Namely, if it is impossible to put this item on the agenda today, I suggest that it be one of three points of the agenda of the next joint session of both Houses of Parliament, which, according to what we received, is scheduled for January 28th, so on the next Wednesday. That way we would try to stop, is it, to violate Rules of Procedure 5 of the House of Representatives and finally get what the House of Representatives should get by the Rules of Procedure by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22956	Thank you. Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22957	Comrades and colleagues, distinguished guests, as Mr. Chairman said, I submitted two requests at the stage of preparing this session for the inclusion of new agenda points. I filed one request yesterday, and that's this request that the chairman spoke of. I thank both the College and the Secretary of Resort for reacting so expediently. It is therefore a request for the entry of the agenda item ‘Information of the Council of Ministers on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, assistant minister of security, and the activities undertaken after the event’. I think technically this point should go through the agenda of this home. The initial information was delivered here and then we'll assess whether it will be necessary to conduct the debate. As far as I'm concerned, I've had enough of what's in this information. It's far better than reading about it in the media and listening to all kinds of insinuations, etc. Second request I filed 12. 1. I addressed it to the College of the House of Representatives, which is: A request for the submission of the ‘Information of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of obligations from the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the visa regime for citizens of BiH’. In that request, I asked the College to address the Council of Ministers, to submit that information to the House of Representatives. I don't know if the College did anything about it. If not, then I submit this initiative here to go also through the agenda and to ask the Council of Ministers for that information, in conclusion of this House, to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22958	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Take it easy, Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22959	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, honored guests, I welcome you all. I'd like to say a few words about points 16 and 17 of the proposed agenda. Namely, these points were proposed to discuss the Ad hoc Commission's report on the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Citizens' Appeals Committee, which was formed sometime in the seventh month last year. 6 I must inform you, the College knows, we have made a written report. But everyone else to report that the commission, unfortunately, has failed to reach a consensus on this proposal because of the reason I don't think I should be here right now. If there's a debate, I'll say something about it, they'll say other colleagues, but I think it would be more useful for these two points to be removed from the agenda. I'm afraid that if they get into the procedure that we're going to make such a result that the whole procedure is going to happen again, or that the competition is going to happen again, and that wouldn't, in my opinion, be wise for us. I think it's better that this report returns to this commission with a request to finish its work anyway. That means these two dots are removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22960	Excuse me, Mr. Huskić. So you're proposing to remove points 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22962	Forming this investigation committee, is that what you're proposing?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22963	No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's just 16. I thought it was two, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22964	So, I see something's not right, it's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22965	You're right, you follow better than I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22966	It's okay. Point 16. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22967	Mr. Chairman! First of all, I would like to congratulate you personally on the election for the chairman of our home. I want to wish you personal happiness and health and it gives me great pleasure to have you back here at full capacity and so fresh and I'm really glad that you've managed to get through this temporary health crisis. And I'm taking my chance to show you as a colleague and personally my satisfaction that this has ended so happily. I, Mr. Chairman, today from the press, learned from the daily press that yesterday, the Foreign Affairs Commission confirmed, according to the paper, my appointment as representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Co-ordination Body for the Management of the campaign for non-permanent membership of 7 BiH in the Security Council in 2010-2011. I'm sorry I got that from the media. This morning I received in my post an appointment signed by You and the First Vice-President of the House of People, Mr. Ilija Filipović, who arrived unfortunately faxed me to my office in the party last night and in contact with the president of the club of MPs I learned that in fact none of us knows anything about it except what we saw in the media. I think this is an extremely important thing. I am reporting on the agenda point, because I would like to propose and I will give you that, if not for today, for one of the next sessions, prepare information on the activities related to BiH's admission to BiH's non-permanent membership in the Security Council in 2010-2011, with a proposal for further measures. What I would also like to say to you at this time, I thank you once again for the trust that you have shown me, that I think this is an extremely important thing and that is why I suggest this point of the agenda. However, I have never really been appointed to any committee before, and here is the 13th year that I am an MP, I have never been appointed to any commission, nor have I ever appointed for anything that would represent this House, and this is for me a small and psychological shock that you have decided to propose to me for such an extremely important thing. I've never used a single diary, not a business trip, nor had I the opportunity to be president of any committee, any delegation where I would represent this Parliament myself. That doesn't mean I'm surprised because my capacities didn't allow me to do something like that, with a lot of respect for everyone else, but here's the first time something like this has happened to me. I think that in this House if you wanted the foreign minister, someone who has that experience, knows the English language, we have here Mr. Mladen Ivanić, who is part of the governing structure, which is closer to what is happening, we have a colleague of Azra Hadžiahmetović who was also a minister who represented us in very important delegations, we have our club president in the Council of Europe, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, we have Martin Raguž who was once the chairman of the Council of Ministers and who runs the Foreign Affairs Commission, these are all people who can do this, nothing worse than I, even moreover, are better connected to people who really decide this than I am. Unfortunately, other foreign ministers are not members of parliament, nor are some of them able to act on such an important duty, for justified reasons. Some are on duty in the presidency, and some are absent in other countries in different types of investigations. Let me cut the story short. Since I was in the UN General Assembly seven years ago, I started this, and it is possible that this is a motive for why you are and I thank you for this proposal, but I would like to report this through the Joint College of both homes, thanks to this, that I cannot accept this appointment for the reasons that I have mentioned now and ask you to appoint someone else, and I will in my capacity as personally as I can help and already do a lot, and that our candidacy really ends in the best possible way. Someone in the public can get the wrong idea that I'm the one who got into this three-, six-, or colcot, as many people as there are in it. Well, in order not to make any confusion either, I think it's a good thing that I don't represent Parliament and that in 13 years I don't make a precedent and that for the first time somewhere, God Bog, I go to the diaries or on the road in the name of this Parliament, which would indeed have a symbolic contrived meaning in 13 years. Well, thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22968	poslanik Izetbegović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, Mr. Izetbegović, we have a line here to discuss the agenda. Mr. Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22970	Thank you very much. I think that this argument that Mr Lagumdžija has for the first time in 13 years been given the opportunity to represent this Parliament, and that is one of the fundamental reasons why he refuses this appointment by the College and this home, really does not stand. I think it is the greatest honor to gain this Parliament's trust that at such an important point as lobbying for such a position as that of its own state in the UN is sufficient reason that no other argument can exist, even if it exists, to reject it. So I don't think it can pass in the Bosnian-Herzegovina public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22971	Here's another replica. Mr. Živković. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22972	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I want to say that the explanation Mr Lagumdžija said, in the part about someone thinking it was part of a six-way, and that's why he shouldn't represent the interest of this parliament and that he's working in BiH's interest, he's disappointed me, and now I'm sorry that I was the one who proposed it to the Kolegijum, and the Kolegijum accepted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22973	Thank you very much. Here's finally Izetbegović, the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22974	Okay. So first of all, I wish you good health and success in your term of office. Also, I join what Mr. Živković said. He is not a professor of Lagumdžija by the grace of the six, nor is he part of the six, proposed to represent BiH. He should defend BiH's interest, not a six-year-old, so I think he might still think about what he's offered, is he, like, doing what's best for his country, if he can. 9 I propose that the agenda be complemented by a agenda item that would go as point 20, before ‘Giveing consent to ratification’, or somewhere ahead of the end of the agenda, and the title would be the item of the agenda ‘Information of the BiH Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH’. We all know the importance of this directorate, and we know the problems that are. _________? [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22977	Please, all of you who have suggestions to deliver them. Mr. Lagumdžija, is it a replica? Mr. Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22978	Mr. Chairman, first of all, my appointment was a unilateral act, and I wasn't familiar with him. And my thanks to this House is also a unilateral act. I'm taking the opportunity to thank Mr. Živković. I really didn't know you suggested me, like I didn't know anything about this. And I have to admit, I'm pleasantly surprised. Now you didn't surprise me when you said this, but you really pleasantly surprised me at everything. And, Mr. Martina, I really think as much of you as you do that this is a great honor. There are many reasons, I have only cited some, but the key reason is that this should be done by someone who is in full sense and in full capacity an integral part of the ruling structures, for one simple reason to act as a coordinated team, and I am ready and, I repeat once again, to be available to everyone in the capacity of MPs, in the capacity of Zlatko Lagumdžija, with what I have behind me and with all the communications I have available, but I don't think it's right for me to accept this, thanks to you again. 10 So, I only suggest that, within the agenda point that until then, you carry out the appointment and the right to tell you, Mr. Belkić, the fact that I was appointed in this way, and I didn’t even know about it, is actually the biggest reason for me not to accept something like this, because it says in favour that this is not taken seriously, as soon as no one has found fit to inform me seven days after that, but through the media I find out. That means this is unseriously done, essentially unserious. I'm asking you to take the other person you're calling to treat him more seriously than simply so that this is taken seriously. ... This is my small contribution to the seriousness of this work and I am ready to help in full capacity, as Mr Izetbegović said, is, as not a member of what he and I hardly can be together members, judging by everything I have heard, and even before, whether.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22979	Well, here I hope we're done with this. This is the thing that concerned the College and this committee, but here I am, bearing in mind that you've even suggested a agenda point, let this debate go, even though this is not a debate on the agenda. So, Mr. Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22980	Gentlemen, the chairman, I join the congratulatory. I asked the Bureau to report that as information and I asked the question, I did not get it, and I suggest that in this proposal on a report on the Council of Ministers we join and a proposal to deliver the Bureau's report together and that it be one point of the agenda at a joint session, i.e. When there's a report from the Bureau and a report from the Council of Ministers, together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22981	Mr. Prodanović, replica if I'm all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22982	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I congratulate you, as well as all the distinguished colleagues, on the position you hold. I wish you every good. I would also like to thank Mr. Lozančić, who has been great at leading this previous meeting. I wanted to say one replica... to Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22983	May I have your attention, please? Take your place, Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22984	You know, Mr. Lagumdžija, you can be an opposition as a political party in this Parliament and in this country, and refuse to participate in lobbying for your country as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, has nothing to do with the opposition. Your argument that 11 will be perceived by someone that you participate in power has nothing to do with it. I believe that the SDP, this country and its citizens would gain significantly more. So personally, I think this is a very wrong move that you resorted to, whether you're informed or not. It's a sentence that implies your position, your position as a man who's highly informed and who might influence. But it's your decision and we'll see what those effects will have, I say, as your political move.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22985	Ambassador Nanić. Wait a minute, is it a replica, sir? Mr. Nanić, I'm sorry. Mr. Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22986	I won't answer again. ... I highly appreciate Mr. Prodanović, and for these very reasons, I just want to say that I would not want to leave something inexplicable between us. Mr. Prodanović, I didn't refuse to participate in lobbying for this important thing, but in this way I don't think it should be done. This gesture of mine should be serious about this whole thing. And so I'm going to help a lot more, doing everything I'd do and being on this committee, and I'm willing to do it all, but in this way it doesn't seem. And another thing, to be very clear, I am the opposition in this government but I am not an opposition to the country and I ask you to keep that in mind. I've never been this way, and it seems to me, that I'm doing a much better thing for the country, by trying to get this serious in a way, not that I'm in it, but that we all approach this the right way together. I'll make my contribution. And I'm only telling you this because I appreciate you and I don't want any misunderstanding between us about what anyone wanted to say. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't answer again if I had business rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22987	There were two replicas. Ambassador Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22988	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, here I was, before the new year, so in December I applied for entry into the 44th session, which is today, on the agenda of a point bearing the title of the 2008 Report on BiH's Progress Report. Since we didn't have a debate at Parliament on the Progress Report, or for 2007, that we received a 2008 Report containing it, we all know what the content is, I think that this content is alarming and requires discussion, here in this home. I think it is unnecessary to waste time explaining why it is necessary for Parliament to discuss it, 12 but here I do not see it in the agenda. If any explanation has a procedural nature, I'll take it. If not, I ask it to be in this agenda or put it in the process and get on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22989	Ambassador Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22990	Mr. Chairman, I also want to wish you a lot of success in your work and above all good health and I hope that success will not be missed. I want, on behalf of the SNSD Club, to say that we intend to work on this agenda today that has been agreed on in view of the very important points, especially the debate on the Budget and that we are not prepared to expand this agenda because we think that it will lead us in another direction. So I suggest that before the debate on the agenda is concluded, or we take a break or consult, either in the Expansive College, let's see, because we from the SNSD want to know today or we're going to work or we're not working.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22991	Excuse me, did I get you all right? Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22993	So, break. How many breaks?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22994	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22995	A break of 15 minutes at SNSD request. I'd like the presidents of the clubs, or the extended college, to come to the O.R. where we hold our meetings. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, we've lost a lot of time. Gentlemen, take your seats. 13 Mr. Kalabić, please pay attention, take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22997	I thank you, Chairman. Well, here, I think it made sense what we were doing in the break. I hope that everyone will have a constructive approach to continue the session and that today, given the really important points on the agenda, to create such a situation that we do today and to end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22998	Okay, thank you. Here, I owe you in some way and explain this. So when it comes to initiatives, or proposals to expand the agenda of today's session, things are like this. When it comes to Mr Dolić's proposal, he updated two things, therefore information related to the resolution of Mr Vuković and, secondly, information related to the liberalisation of the visa regime in BiH. Unfortunately, there are some technical problems in this other matter. I hope that we have made ourselves clear and we will do everything that is up to us to update it, and when it comes to this request, Mr Dolić remains at the point where the House declares the proposal, when it comes to his request. Mr. Bećirović asked that the agenda item 'The Council of Ministers' work report be included earlier, he initiated it. I am reporting to him that the College has written a request, etc., and that it remains on us to, I say, press the Council of Ministers to make this legal commitment and relation to the Assembly appear by delivering the "Work Report" here. So here are the members of the Council of Ministers, I hope they register what we are talking about and will contribute to getting this House as soon as possible 'The Council of Ministers' work report'. When it comes to the proposal for him to be discussed at the next plenary session, therefore, which we scheduled for Wednesday, it is not realistic that we have him for the simple reason that we and the College of the House of Nations have established the agenda and it is not realistic to expect that we can receive this report these two or three days. We can make sure that as soon as possible, and our obligation is. Trust me, Mr. Bećirović, that the College will do everything possible to get it on the agenda as soon as possible. When it comes to Mr Huskić's request, Mr Huskić did not declare whether he was withdrawing this request and we will vote on it. Here, he informs me he's not pulling back, we'll vote on that, but I sincerely hope we know what we want to achieve by discussing this report that we have. Mr Lagumdžija also proposed, in the context of a debate on his engagement, etc., he proposed a agenda item he formulated as 'Information on BiH's activities in BiH's non-permanent membership in the Security Council in 2010-2011, with a proposal for further measures'. I suppose Mr. Lagumdžija stays on this proposal. We don't have material 14 of course, but Mr. Lagumdžija remains on his suggestion that the House pleads. Do you insist that we plead today?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u22999	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23000	Okay, thank you. We have further, Mr Erić also asked for a report on the work of the Council of Ministers to discuss the Presidency's work report. As far as I know, the constitutional and business obligations of the Presidency are to submit a financial report to this House, not a work report, so that we can only comply with the Rules of Procedure and with the Constitution to implement the Bureau's obligations towards this Parliament. We'll level whether we had; we had the Financial Report of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23001	We adopted the agenda and conducted the debate and delivered it to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23002	And delivered it to the Presidency. So it will be updated. And finally, when it comes to Mr Nanić's request, we have already delivered this report on BiH's 2008 progress to the European Integration Commission to get an opinion. When the Commission finishes its part of the job, we will classify this as a part of the agenda. Therefore, and when it comes to the proposal for a agenda of the SDA Members' Club, in these consultations, respecting the need to prepare the relevant material, etc., it is agreed that this item of the agenda should be considered at the next session, assuming that we receive the necessary information from the Council of Ministers. To conclude, practically, we are now declaring three proposals. So, Mr. Dolić's proposal, Mr. Huskić's proposal and Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal. I hope
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23003	A Lagumdžija doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23004	No, no, sorry, Mr. Lagumdžija agreed to the next session. Here you go, Zlatko. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23005	I, Mr. Chairman, have agreed to the next session, if you consider yourself in the College and have the agreement among you to run for the next session and to be asked by the Council of Ministers. If that,...if there is no agreement between you...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23006	We need to get some supplies. We need to get some materials. We have already received some Work Programmes, etc., but it is obvious that we need more materials related to the activities that have been conducted so far and how they are guided.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23007	I'm okay with it if there's an agreement between you two.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23008	Well, look, when it comes to relations in college, we always find a solution and it's not a problem, be sure. And when we proposed to you, we had a full consensus.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23009	I believe you'll have it without me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23010	Of course, of course. But here we go back now. So we have a proposal from Mr. Rifat Dolić for which we have some material already. So it is the item of the agenda of 'Informing the Council of Ministers of BiH on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, Assistant Minister of Security of the BIH, and the activities undertaken after the event'. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 22 votes "yes", 18 Federations, four RS, has a general majority, no entity. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, we have an intervention when it comes to the technical aspect of the vote. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Please vote now. 16 With 22 votes "yes", 20 from the Federation, two from the RS, this proposal did not receive entity support. It's a match. There's no consent. We vote in the second round. Please, we all vote of course, please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 21 "for". The proposal passed because there are no 10 votes "against" from the RS, nor two-thirds of the vote "against" from the Federation. I find this request by Mr. Rifat Dolić to include this item of the agenda at today's session has been accepted. All we have to do is put this request on the agenda. So I suggest the 22nd item of the agenda. I hope you agree. So the 22nd agenda, the new agenda point. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23012	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23013	21. Dolić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23014	21st behind the information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23015	It's okay, Bećirović, so 21. Mr. Huskić suggests removing point 16. The appointment of the president, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure (proposed by the Ad hoc Joint Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here's an intervention. May I have your attention, please? Prepare to vote. Vote now! 17 With 26 votes "yes", with a sufficient entity majority, Mr. Huskić's proposal was accepted and item 16 was removed from the agenda and practically I no longer have official proposals. And let me now establish the agenda of the 44th session of the House of Representatives. Branka, please just follow me a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23019	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23020	No, no, this conclusion on the appointment of the Commission of Investigation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23021	The investigation committee has passed, it's 16. Now it's Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23022	I'm sorry. So 20. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, BiH Assistant Minister of Security, and the activities undertaken after the event – Proposer: Rifat Dolić; 21. Giving consent to ratification, as follows: (a) Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, (b) Agreement on a grant of the Global Fund for the Environment between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as an Agency for the realisation of the Global Fund for the Environment – Project Management of the Neretva and Trebišnica, (c) European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage (Revised) 1992, (d) Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, Paris, 2 November 2001, (e) International Convention against Doping in Sports, Paris, 19 October 2005, (f) Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, Paris, 27 October 2005. 19 So that would be the agenda of today’s 44th session. Here, let's just check it out one more time. So we've got it all. Well, I'm sorry, there were changes, tampering, etc., so we had to go and level it. So we can start working on the agenda. Let's go to point one. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 42nd and 43rd session of the House of Representatives You've got the records. We can conduct the debate on both minutes at the same time, and we can declare ourselves individually on each of these two minutes. Here you go. Any objections to the minutes of the 42nd and 43rd sessions. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to plead. First we declare the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23024	No, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23025	Sorry, sorry, we'll do that at the end of the session. Let's go to point two. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers From last session to this session, the MPs received answers to questions: Sadik Bahtić, Denis Bećirović and Momčilo Novaković from the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 35th session; Šemsudin Mehmedović from the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 36th session; Sadik Bahtić from the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 38th session; Martin Raguž from the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 39th session; Azra Alajbegović and Denis Bećirović from the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, asked questions at the 40th session; Jozo Križanović from the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly, asked questions at the 41st session; Sadik Bahtić from the BiH Management Board, on request at the 42nd session and Rifat Dolić from the Ministry of Security, asked questions at the 42nd session. These are the answers that we have recorded here as arrivals and I am opening the possibility for those who have received the answers to comment. Please sign in. So we have Mr. Bahtić and Mr. Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23027	Thank you, Your Honor. I've received more answers to parliamentary questions. Today, I would like to comment on my parliamentary question concerning the BiH Steering Board, which at its 35th session, according to some media releases, defamed and mocked the conclusions of this parliament. Instead of answering the Management Board, I received, and I thank the Management Board, a set of minutes from that session from which it is seen that certain members of the Management Board have really mocked this home, the conclusions of this home, and are placed above this home in their stages. The chairman of the Deretić Management Board reminded these conclusions and said that our responsibility to Parliament and the public obliges us to accept these conclusions with the highest responsibility for the opening presentation. Marija Putica immediately suggested and said that these conclusions are contradictory to each other and that the conclusions are such that the Management Board cannot take a position on them at this time and therefore, as it suggests, that the position of the House of Peoples should wait. Also, Nada Milošević estimated that there are confusing things in the conclusion and was raised as a question whether or not we are bound by these conclusions. And we know which conclusions we've adopted. Because of the extremely difficult and economic and political and every situation in TV, we have suggested that this be overcome and consolidation done and so on. The only member of the Management Board, Ahmed Žilić, has represented the position to debate the conclusions in December, as it is evident from the discussions on the Management Board that it is the humiliation of Parliament and the conclusions of this parliament. The President of the Administrative Board said that they are in accordance with Article 25 on their own and perform their functions, and they do not receive instructions from the authorities that appointed them. He says we know who we're responsible for. This isn't getting involved in their work. However, they are obliged, after being appointed by this parliament, to implement the parliament's decisions, and known for the sake of overcoming the situation. There have fallen a number of heavy accusations at Parliament's expense, at the expense of conclusions. He also said in a discussion, "We should go ahead with the conclusions of some politicians." As it turns out, Parliament is a politician, a politician and some conclusions to them. Now, if we could get into whose politics they're spending there, then it'd be a little different. And he says I can't accept the conclusions they're accusing without any arguments. What, nobody's accusing him, they're just conclusions to bring the situation to BH TV, a perfectly normal state. This is our goal here, and these conclusions are well-coordinated, all on the Commission and here at the House. And so, I'm not reading anything from this record that's received, it's evident that the board of directors is going their way, doing what they do, that they are not bound by the conclusions of this House. How long will it take? It's up to us. As far as I'm concerned, I've set up some conclusions and adopted them. I think the responsibility of the board of directors is very much on the current situation in tv, is literally, here's 21 more years, nothing will happen. They'll just fight, plan their responsibility to this parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23028	Mr. Raguž applied for a comment. Is there anyone else to comment on? Thank you. There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23029	I thank you, Mr. President. So, at the 39th session of this House, I asked the Council of Ministers about the conclusions of both Houses of this House of Four. 4. In 2007, where the Council of Ministers was asked to submit to this House and Parliament a proposal for the deployment of state agencies and institutions according to the plan of their future establishment which had not been delivered until then, and in the response that was delivered to me, I would like to say here, was given only a partial response, and that is my comment on this response to the Council of Ministers' Council, because in this question which I have asked is not only required to give a formal review of where BiH institutions are located but to give the Council of Ministers' proposal on how accommodation and accommodation schedule of state agencies and institutions that are to be formed under the Action Plan and also not given an overview of where these institutions are located, whether in the space they are locked, whether they own BiH. In addition, we will send the request in writing for this issue to be elaborated, because I believe it is important also because of the institutions of BiH and the public. Let's see to what extent it is possible to achieve financial effects that BiH institutions are located in a space that will provide BiH, not in locked spaces. I think that can be done by making one smart strategy of such a layout and accommodation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23030	Please, Mr. Prodanović, Mr. Vrankić, please. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23031	And it is not enough to specify a review of the institutions that have been established and whose seat is not defined as given here in this response, but to come from the Council of Ministers, a proposal to schedule the seats of those institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23032	Thank you. This is how we concluded our comments on the answers received. I'm opening the process of asking new questions. It has been reported to me, please only to inform you, so Sadik Ahmetović, Ekrem Ajanović, Husein Nanić, Šefik 22 Džaferović, Selim Bešlagić, Denis Bećirović, Rifat Dolić, Drago Kalabić, Mirko Okolić, Momčilo Novaković and Sead Jamakosmanović. So we're going in a row, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23033	The Honorable Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23034	Here, Salko Sokolović also jumped in on the extension.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23035	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers! My question... I am asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency of BiH. 'What will be done about statements and views of RS representatives in Jerusalem, Mr. Rije Livni? The explanation is that we are witnessing these days that Mr. Livni is coming out of the BiH Constitution. Knowing who leads the foreign policy and who represents BiH, therefore, its steps are counterproductive and horny at the very least for BiH and cause it great damage. So, just one of his steps is "I don't see you as a state" and, not to elaborate further, from his initiatives and efforts to divide this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23036	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23037	I thank the chairman. Here, today I would like to ask two parliamentary questions. The first of them is the BiH foreign minister. It's about the next one. In response to one of the questions raised, the foreign ministry provided information that more than 1.3 million BiH citizens live in the world. With the two facts that I'm about to make, I want to get through it and the questions I want to get from the Ministry. It's about the next one. In the last local elections, we amended the Election Law and allowed our citizens to vote in the DKP. A total of 223 citizens have applied for the vote. And due to a small number of applications, it gave up that voting institute. The total number of applications received to vote by mail is 41,689 applications. Of which 23% were invalid reports, which is very symptomatic. The simple calculation from the previous one shows that the diaspora has made a request to vote 3% to 5% of our citizens. The question arises: 'What is the actual number of our citizens in the diaspora with the right to vote? What causes such a small response to the vote, and how can this data be obtained? 23 For this reason I ask the Minister, I believe that he will not stand on this alone, that some other data will be needed. 'What number of Bosnian herbic passports has been issued to our citizens in all DKPs? So, in everything and one DKP where BiH is. The second issue is the foreign trade and economic relations minister of BiH. It is the following: that the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement, more specifically Article 71(4) of the Agreement, has established the obligation of BiH to establish only one operational independent body which will, inter alia, have the power to approve state aid or support programmes, and only at BiH level, while noting that in all countries in the environment and EU member states state support are in the jurisdiction of one body and at national, therefore, national level. Although the ministry established a task force to draft laws in the state support system in November 2006, it has not established the text of the bill for more than two years now. At the same time, last month, the RS government established a draft state aid law, destroying a single economic space in BiH. It sends negative messages to the European Commission and can be seen as non-compliance with the international obligations undertaken by BiH, which may have certain implications for credibility and the real possibility of state institutions meeting their commitments. I therefore ask the Minister as follows: 'What will be done to stop those activities of one entity and to prevent the possible rise of similar problems in other areas arising from the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because the creation of this law is only one of the obligations under the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23038	Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23039	Mr. Chairman Berize Belkić, I wish you good health, first of all, and the successful performance of this post as chairman over the next eight months. Thank you, Mr. Lozančić, for the successful leadership of this home in the past eight months. My question is to the BiH presidency, which reads: 'Why so far has it not been and when will BiH's ambassador to the Republic of Turkey be appointed?' Now the situation is such that the current ambassador has expired, he is therefore in BiH... The mission's being run by the mailman. BiH and the Republic of Turkey have extraordinary friendly relations and I think it is an unacceptable vacuum in the BiH diplomatic mission at the highest level of representation. And that's why I'm asking for an answer from the BiH presidency. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23040	I'm moving Bešlagić. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23041	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, you know well that I am, but also some other MPs of this house just over a year ago asked a question about the fate of the Tuzla Column. We did it, not because of any pressure on investigative actions, on the contrary, we appealed to the speedy removal of all dilemmas regarding this wartime event. The BiH prosecutor's office since 15 May 2007, so a year and nine months ago, launched investigations against nine people who were assessed responsible for the incident in Brcanska Malta since 15 May '92. A year. All those who were subject to the investigation responded neatly to the prosecution's call and I did so, as well as to the case in which I was detained in the BiH Court of Justice on a warrant issued by Belgrade. I didn't call for any immunity, because even then today I felt that as the responsible man and MP of this house I had to give full co-operation to the judicial authorities and their efforts to learn the full truth about the event in Brcanska Malta and determine who was responsible. Let me, however, because 19 months is too long a period of time for all the people who were subject to an investigation with impatience to expect its completion. My question is, "What about investigations in the case of Brchanska Malta? How long has it been since the BiH Prosecutor's Office's investigation?' I'm looking for an answer in writing. And to say that asking this question would not be misunderstood, I repeat once again, Selim Bešlagić is in a disposition to all BiH judicial authorities and belongs to those who believe that the judicial authorities must finally put an end to Brcanska Malta. If someone's responsible, even if it was me, let them answer, but it's not right that long-term investigation is turning into some kind of psychological pressure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23042	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23043	The Honorable Chairman, I am using here and the opportunity that since the Minister of Finance is present, and given that a lot has been announced in the press about the next issue, to get an answer at the session itself. So, I ask the following questions to the finance minister: "Is it true that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, bought a new expensive car, according to the press, in the time of the severe economic crisis that has hit BiH in the last 60 days? If so, I ask what is the exact price of that car, and is the law on public procurement respected when buying this car?" So, I ask the Minister of Finance orally now, and I am also asking two questions: 'What conclusions and initiatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from January 2007 to January 2009 have not been realised by the Council of Ministers and what are the reasons why these conclusions and initiatives of the House of Representatives have not been realised so far?' 25 I also ask this question to the Council of Ministers but also to the College of the House of Representatives who probably have a review of these conclusions and initiatives. And last question: 'Why is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives not on the agenda in January 2009: a) the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for 2009 and b) the Council of Ministers for 2009. A year?' I personally think it would be quite logical, as all parliaments do both at lower levels and in the neighbourhood, that in January of the month, if we can't already before January of the month, we have a programme of work transparent, clear, which we will adopt here and which we will monitor and implement in the course of the year. This question under (a)... of course, I am asking the College, and under (b) the Council of Ministers concerning the Council of Ministers' work programme, which should certainly be delivered to the House of Representatives. Of course, I also deliver questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23044	Rifat Dolić. Of course, Minister Vrankić, if you are ready to answer after the parliamentary questions have been asked. Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23045	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions today. The first question is the question of a resolution minister in the BiH Council of Ministers: "When will BiH's diplomatic and consular representations in the world be qualified to e-determin the single number of citizens and what are the reasons for the current waitings on the same, which are moving even over six months after applying for diplomatic and consular representation abroad?" There are a lot of our citizens in the diaspora who have been asking questions like this lately and who, when faced with a long wait to get a home number, prefer to give up raising documents and travel documents that want to prove their bh. citizenship. I think this is also another one in a series of auto goals that we are giving ourselves in an effort to bind our citizens in the diaspora tighter to their country and state of BiH. A few days ago, he wrote an article on the issue in the "Freedom" list, but there remained many open issues about the problem that require official answers and explanations from BiH institutions. I would be grateful to the ministry for the official answer to this question and, of course, to take the necessary measures to address this problem rationally and responsibly. The second question is the question of the Minister of Civil Affairs in the Council of BiH: 26 'What can you do for a more up-to-date and responsible relationship between the Cantonal Institute in Bihac in the direction of the rapid processing and referral of pension applications that our citizens submit through this office and the office in Bihac according to the PIO of the Republic of Slovenia?' With great patience, I would say, the citizens of BiH have been very difficult to welcome the signing of this bilateral Social and Health Insurance Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia, and now, unfortunately, the problem is that the competent institute and PIO are slowly and frequently and irresponsiblely processing pension requirements that citizens are referring to the institutions of PIO in Slovenia after obtaining the necessary conditions. In the last month, several U.S. citizens have come to me asking me to help them finally move from Bihac to Slovenia. Through some private channels, I have checked and made sure that such requirements at the Bureau of PIO in Bihac can wait for months and even get lost in the drawers of local officials. This is not only irresponsible and unprofessional but such behaviour directly causes and material damage to citizens in the exercise of their rights in Slovenia, because the exercise of these rights is related to the date of application. It would be useful to draw attention to such comments by citizens to those responsible for both PIO entities in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23046	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23047	Chairman, given the truth unverified, the information I received that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has requested certain documents from the Council of Ministers such as stenograms etc., I am asking the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and, if possible, if possible, the answer, preferably today. 'Is this the BiH Council of Ministers under investigation by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, why and for what reasons? And while respecting the fact that it is one of the most important institutions in BiH, I would ask an urgent answer."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23048	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23049	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the international community, NGOs, representatives of information funds, dear guests! Here, I would like to ask one parliamentary question on a very sensitive subject, and this is the problem of refugees and returnees and it reads as follows: 'As many others, I, as an MP, received a letter from Mr Boriša Gavrilović. It states that his parents Jevto and Rajka Gavrilović, who have been in refugee status for over 15 years, cannot enter into the possession of their allegedly returned apartment. Since it is a refugee population that everyone needs to help, and cannot obstruct their rights, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to establish through the 27 competent institutions in BiH and the Federation of BiH why there is obstruction in the return of property to the Gavrilović family?" In addition, I deliver the necessary memos and verdicts to return the apartment to the Gavrilović family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23050	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23051	Here, I'll ask you a question, dear colleagues. I'm going to have a very short explanation. Since we have a number of different information in recent times through different media, and they are related to the purchase of passenger cars in the Council of Ministers, and I therefore ask the following parliamentary question: 'How many passenger cars were purchased in 2008 for the purposes of the chairman and ministers of the Council of Ministers? Which car, from which supplier, at what prices and at what conditions? Provide information individually by users. Also, I ask for the answer: 'Are all these procurements open to public tenders, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23052	Sead Jamakosmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23053	Dear Chairman, I will ask one question to the two BiH institutions, so a question for the foreign minister and the BiH presidency. My question concerns the operation of our embassies abroad. So, according to official information in the Netherlands, more than 25,000 BiH citizens are in The Hague, so the capital. In The Hague, there is our BiH Embassy with all its accompanying ensembles that enables it to work effectively. Although everything exists, 25,000 citizens are referred to a consular officer who comes to The Hague from Brussels, so from Belgium, once a week. I ask the BiH Presidency: "Is he aware of this kind of work and does he approve of it?" And I ask the foreign minister, "Who allowed such luxury, irresponsible behavior towards so many of our citizens abroad, why doesn't this change and, of course, when it will change, because this doesn't make sense?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23054	Branko Dokić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23055	Mr. Chairman, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and also to Mr. Alkalaj, the foreign minister. In fact, for the last ten days, I'd say a kind of diplomatic was made, so maybe it's not an exaggeration if I say, and the scandal that's happening with the citizens of the Russian Federation. Many of them have been returned from the BiH border because an unannounced decision has been made to introduce visas to Russian citizens. It is obvious from all this information from the media that this decision has been made, but it is a very contradictory fact that Minister Alkalaj does not know about such a decision and claims that no such decision has been made, and I repeat once again that the decision exists; even to the media, he gives such statements that he could have been returned to a Russian Federation citizen if he was an incorrect passport, not because he needed a visa. His assistant on these issues states that there may be some kind of printing error, that there has been this. In any case, not getting into these details whether it's a printing error, whether it's intended, what it's intended to be, it's very undiplomatic to do it without any notice, without any explanation. And if it's a mistake, then it would be good for the Foreign Ministry and the Council of Ministers to correct their mistakes as soon as possible. In any case, my question is, "How has it come to pass, why has this whole atmosphere been created around this issue in the last ten days?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23056	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23057	I have a question to the Council of Ministers: 'How much is it and how have the funds for the return in 2008 been spent? Was the funds enough? How many requests were justified and possibly unwarranted and how many were partially or completely solved?" Also, I want an answer to the question: "What are the 2009 estimates on the same issue?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23058	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23059	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, representatives of NGOs, journalists, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! Iuzeću take this case from Mr. Vuković and nothing else. I don't want to talk about the scale of things, the guilt, this, what, I'm not interested in anything. But one piece of information that was in the paper, I say, is used as a clagort that the gentleman went with an official vehicle to another 29 countries. At the 2nd session of this Parliament, I asked the question of delivering all the information on privileges in all BiH institutions – the use of mobile phones, various commissions, vehicles – and I got one piece on mobile phones, commissions, and the Council of Ministers did well. I am now renewing the parliamentary question, to be provided with a list of decisions by which I (really do not want to offend anyone) state officials, assistant ministers, advisors, and even secretaries, professional associates, I do not know all the categories there, who is using the vehicles and why and how much fuel consumption is there? Here we are going to have a point on the Budget and we're looking to get the funds from this item or that item to move there, here, to fight it, to have Budget, and no one is alive asking, really, how is it possible that we, the State MPs, don't have vehicles and we don't need to have about the cost of the state, we use private, how is it possible that one category of people who are civil servants are using the vehicles of this country? And I mean, my estimates say it's a couple hundred cars. Do you know what these savings were and the shame was one information I received earlier in response, that one vehicle from the former minister spent 28.5 liters of oil a hundred kilometers. So I asked if she was driving the threshold, the tank, what was the vehicle there? How long will this ride be in this country?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23060	I have another reported Salko Sokolović and I invite Mr. Sokolović. In this way, we conclude the question and we have the possibility that Mr. Vrankić will answer this parliamentary question. Here you go, Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And my question is to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and that's what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23062	Please sit in your seats and please be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23063	'What effect does the equality of employees in state institutions and the equality of funds financed from the contribution to wages have on the application of entity income tax and tax and contribution laws, and what will the Council of Ministers do to overcome the existing situation?' A brief explanation. From 1. 1st of this year... entity income tax laws apply. The calculation and payment of salaries for December 2008 for employees of BiH institutions 30 was carried out with the law mentioned. As regards non-harmonised laws, their application leads to unequal treatment of employees, depending on whether they are residents of one entity or another, or whether their residence is in the Federation or in the RS. This violates one of the basic principles of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, where Article 3 is guaranteed the same salary for the same or similar business. On the other hand, when it comes to funds, the different principles and rates of contributions in the entity laws on taxes and contributions in practical application lead to the different amounts of pension and health funds being paid to employees of state institutions who carry out the same job and who have the same length of employment. In fact, some get a higher salary than others. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23064	Thank you. Here I repeat, so we've concluded that we've signed up for parliamentary matters. Here's Mr. Vrankić apparently intends to answer Mr. Bećirović's question immediately. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23065	Hello, everyone. I join the congratulations for good health to Mr. Belkić. The question asked about the purchase of the vehicle, I do not feel competent to answer that question... just that under the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, every budget user is responsible for the legal spending of funds. Here I know that it means the General Secretariat that led that procedure and the institutions that are competent to control it will determine if it's all by law. I personally informed myself after this news that I was in the media, did he read? The Institute of Public Procurement was used. I can say so much about it, and we in the ministry have jurisdiction in the control of the aspect of the budget, whether it's from the planned funds or not, obviously it is as soon as it's paid, so I have no other objections. I would take immediate advantage of the opportunity and answer Mr. Sokolović this question. I mean, while I'm at the pay phone, if you'll excuse me. It is true that there are certain problems with this aspect, but we are legalists, I respect the Law on the Payments of BiH Institutions and Entity Laws on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions and absolutely in this respect of these principles, which we must, or the Law, come up with these phenomena that you have said. Unfortunately, one of the basic obligations or wishes or goals in BiH is the harmonisation of the entire BiH system, and I think it is one task ahead of us. And I personally agreed with my deputy that he would take the initiative to record the full state of both state entities and propose certain measures to overcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23066	Thank you, Minister, for trying to respond. Obviously, we will forward this question to the General Secretariat, but here's if you need to comment, please. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23067	Well, I just want to find out that Mr. Vrankić, the finance minister, answered my third question about this topic. So the minister claimed that everything was done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I didn't get an answer to the question, did it buy a car and how much did it cost? Since I haven't received this question, I'm now transferring it to be delivered to me in writing within a business period.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23068	I'm sure that's what they'd do to me. That's exactly what I said. Okay, this is how we have concluded this item of the agenda, i.e. parliamentary issues. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2009 (second reading) So, a little reminder, the 2009 Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions adopted in the first reading at the 43rd session, on 29 December of last year, with the conclusion that the Finance and Budget Committee of the Representatives' House and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury was in charge of the establishment of the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2009 with the structure of income that would be within the frameworks established by the Fiscal Council and the structure of expenditure within which, within the limits of possibilities, the proposals of the BiH Presidency would be respected. So, I'm talking about the conclusion of the House of Representatives. The Commission for Finance and Budgets submitted the Report on the Bill's Proposal on 16 January 2008, you received the Report. You also saw from the report that the Commission adopted 20 amendments. During this plenary phase, the amendment was submitted by Jozo Križanović and Zlatko Lagumdžija 17 amendments, Denis Bećirović 18 amendments, Sefer Halilović four amendments, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović two amendments, the SNSD Club submitted one amendment in which practically four amendments were contained. So, I am opening a debate on the Bill's proposal for the Budget of BiH institutions...and international obligations in the second reading. The President of the Finance and Budget Commission shall report. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23070	Thank you. As you said in the introduction, the Commission adopted the principles at its 37th session, meaning the principles of the draft law by the BiH Presidency's mandate, Framework Budget 32 1.636.894, with the conclusion that the Political Council's Decision and the Bureau's items are being taken into account. And so there was one conclusion that the Commission's leadership, before the session itself, the second phase, sat down with the Ministry of Finance, which we did in the morning at 9:00. And on the commission itself, we got, you already said, there were 11 proposings, 68 amendments. Twenty amendments were adopted, SDA MP Salko Sokolović proposed. And I have a technical remark and I'm going to see and I'm going to propose to the College that we take a short break for the Commission to meet. In my opinion, this is one very serious thing, because there is one amendment that is in the Commission's report, unfortunately and it's my fault, faxed it here, and the secretary's, and the one who did it his biggest mistake, there's one amendment that wasn't voted on at all on the commission, and I have amendments here, the original amendment of my colleague Salke Sokolović, here they are, for which they all voted. In Article 2, amandman ii shall mean in Article 3, Table 3. The schedule of revenue by budgetary users and in the tables for individual users at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is eliminated by an ongoing grant called the Return Programme for refugees and displaced persons of 300,000. The same table adds to the Return Fund a new liquid grant called the Return Programme for refugees and displaced persons of 35,000. In the morning, it was 28,500, on the SDA and SNSD commission itself, agreed to increase it to 35,000. My remark was because they were amendments, not those proposals from the Presidency where there was an increase of 200,000, that they were all deleted, only amandman XII, now I will find it, I have expressed the Commission's position... The Commission is proposing, but I want to say that...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23071	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23072	Wait a minute, Amendment XII in Article 3. The bill's proposal, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in column 1 of the current grant is deleted in the return programme for refugees and displaced persons 97,000. Gentlemen, please find a stenogram and a record, none of this has been mentioned. We have all the amendments here, the one who did it obviously made a mistake. Here's the amendment that's been adopted, there's no such thing as anywhere here, there's nowhere here. That's why I think we need a break. I am saying this for a reason because all the time, I have told the Commission that our draft budget is a proposal from the Presidency, not three from Prud. If in this, too, what we adopted, believe that there was a starting point, it went to the Prudish Agreement. In my opinion, let's just say that we have... The presidency in the shadows, and apparently we have a presidency in the shadows. We're getting some papers here that are being put in here... where we're suggesting what we should do. For these reasons, I say most people understand, let them have most. However, it has not been done properly and this amendment has not been voted at all. I absolutely claim, I have all the amendments that have been voted, the exact ratio, and it stands in Article 12. I think we should take a break, I'm here to adopt the Bill on Budget. It's better to have every budget than not to have one. How about we sit down and things like this don't happen anymore? A break for the Commission to meet briefly to see there are some other things pa. Thank you so much. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23073	We have a replica, Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23074	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have applied for the replica because it is the only way to do so, and I would like to make some views here in order to remove any suspicion that the Secretary of the Commission and his associates have changed anything after the Commission, although this dilemma, which the President of the Commission has spoken of, is absolutely standing. So I hold in my hands the material we voted on. The point 2 of this material reads as follows: ‘Article 3(3) of Table 3. The budget users' income schedule and individual users' tables at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees eliminates an ongoing grant called the Return Programme for refugees and displaced persons of 300,000 KM. That sentence is in Amendment XII. How the report was made and is in Article 3. Proposal for a law in individual table 23. The Human Rights and Refugees Ministry in column 1 under current grenades is deleted from the programme of refugee returns and displaced persons of 97 million 533 thousand KM, so this amount is controversial. Obviously, the material by which we voted was referred to the material delivered by the Council of Ministers to the Bureau, as it is seen by name and amount. And in that official text, as we made the report, it was necessary and only possible to refer to the Budget Law proposal, which is the only Bill on Budget, which is the Presidency's proposal. The second sentence of this point 2 we voted on reads: 'The same table adds a new current grant to the Return Fund called the Refugee Return and Displaced Persons Programme of 35,000 KM', I think 5 million KM. Amendment XIX, so this point has been broken into two amendments, states Article 3. Proposal for a law in individual table 47. The Fund for return to column 1 under liquid grenades is added to the current programme for refugee returns and displaced persons of 35 million KM. I therefore propose that we support the Commission President's proposal to take a break and agree on this, but I think it is important that I have said here and that any doubt is removed that anyone, on behalf of anything, has changed the adopted text of the amendment after the meeting of the Commission. And it was technically necessary to adapt, because most of the amendments that have come at the amendment stage, as well as most of the amendments that are otherwise coming, are not written in accordance with the rules on the writing of amendments to the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23075	Please, please, so Dom has been brought into a very delicate situation. We have this report ahead of us, so the Commission's report and that we could continue to work I would like to get information from the President of the Commission whether this is the final, authentic and 34 definitive report we are discussing. If he isn't, please let the MPs' club request a half-hour break. Please meet and inform this House of Representatives that we do not fall any further. Please request a break. Azra, ask for a break for half an hour and go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23076	I said, here comes my colleague Bajazit...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23077	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23078	If it wasn't for that, there was no vote on this at all, I say...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23079	Well, that's what you discuss and come to the House with your final report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23080	Well, I asked the College to take a break, I asked you to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23081	Why would the College give, ask, we have this report. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. Break, break, break, no, no, no, break. Once we get a definitive report, we'll discuss it. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23084	Thank you. The Commission has met and... Decidently read everything, means those amendments that
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23085	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23086	have been adopted on the Commission and those who... The Commission unanimously decided that it was a technical error and that it was behind the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23087	Does this mean that this report that MPs have is valid, agreed and that it is the basis for discussion. Thank you. So, we removed this one, so to speak, I'm going to doubt it. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23088	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23089	Here, Mr. Lagumdžija informed us that he was not present and that he was not his voice in that unanimous. So, I guess Mr. Bahtić meant the audience. All right, all right. But let's keep working. So we keep working. I am opening a debate on the report, of course, and on the Budget Law proposal, because the report is an integral part of the second reading. We have amendments. Here you go. Mr. Izetbegović. Application for discussion Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23090	So, please, do you have a list? I guess I'm not the first on the list. I'm guessing there's some kind of application before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23091	You're the first. Don't worry. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23092	Okay. So I wish this budget was bigger, that it could cover a lot more. Unfortunately, circumstances are what they are. We will support what the Fiscal Council has determined earlier. In addition, only 35 million to return, and we think that this is insufficient for serious support of this process and for the final and more serious implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. In that sense, the SDA will today propose a conclusion, previously agreed, to assign the Council of Ministers, the finance ministry to find the funds, a 400m KM loan that would seriously support the return process over the next two years. And please support that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23093	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, please be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23094	...he doesn't understand because he also speaks at the same time as President Belkić... for two years. Within 90 days to find the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23095	Please listen to each other. Thank you. I hope that in the course of the debate we will get a proposal for this conclusion before the plea. Who's on the phone? Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23096	Thank you very much. I picked up the phone earlier, it says here. Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, to be honest, I do not have much to say about what I already said during the debate in the first reading. The only news for me is that budget revenues are reduced to something more realistic. At this point, it was more political than essential because it was a stumbling block for some consensus within the ruling six. The cosmetic process of harmonising budget expenditure with reduced revenues has obviously been done by the Finance and Budget Commission. I think she did it in the worst possible way and the Commission turned instead of the expert body of this house into the political modernizer of the parliamentary majority or its reduced part. The minimum reduction in budget expenditure was made on salary and compensation expenditure where objectively there was the most space and the most justification if it was already going to be done. The expenditure on salaries and fees relative to the Draft Budget has been reduced generously by 1.2% or 6.6 million KM, which is not only irresponsible but hypocritical. First, we increase our salaries and expenditures by 30% compared to the previous year, and then generously we give up 1.2% of that increase. The reduction in the financial costs of budget users is done in a slightly more real scale, but there is a strategy: first increase by 40% and then decrease by 16%. The biggest failure of 37 the Finance and Budget Commission certainly makes the balance of income cuts by reducing expenditures to a reduction in capital expenditure and reducing expenditure on displaced persons from 97.5 million KM, which was in the draft, to 35 million KM, which is now agreed. I think these are the two things that should be the last things that should reduce budget spending. Capital expenditures are a significant and anti-crisis and anti-recession agent, and it is certainly not good in this way to give it up because, unfortunately, we will need it very quickly. The investment to finance the return has its own both human and moral and political dimension, and on top of that, and it is a significant anti-recession tool, because it affects an increase in cost-effective demand and employment. How immoral and economically unfair it is in this item to cut expenditure in relation to the draft budget, I do not think it is necessary to comment. To me on this occasion, more for a stenogram, the remaining to make my global remarks on the Budget, although I am aware that this does not have much impact on the creators and promoters of this kind...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23097	Mr. Dolić, this isn't a first-reading debate. The debate is about amendments, second reading. We had a chance to discuss it in general. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23098	Well, please, but it's not in the second reading just the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23099	Go ahead, say what you think you need to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23100	Technical preparations for the adoption of this budget are at such a level as to include the adoption of the budget of the local community or of some political municipality, not the state and its institutions. The result is that instead of using analytical indicators and estimates to Budget, we come by selecting budget users' requests and, of course, by using the political contract of the ruling six or the Prudic Troika. There is also an inappropriate procedure for making and adopting a budget that does not come from the strategic objectives of the state, so that Budget is not the instrument of any policy, economic, social and other, but rather an instrument for the sole financing of government. The State Presidency and the Council of Ministers with Budget have not delivered any projections of economic, social and other developments for the year for which this budget is adopted and, of course, a measure for their implementation, which is common on such occasions in normal countries. This budget does not have one element in it or is driven by anti-crisis and anti-recession objectives and incentives. I think it is more than necessary in this time when the financial crisis and recession without fighting marched in BiH we use all the means to amortise and mitigate their impact on the economy and on the citizens of BiH. The budget of the state is a common means of doing so in all normal countries. Unfortunately, this budget, proposed not only is not an anti-crisis and anti-recession mechanism, but it is in more segments and directly in the function of fostering a financial 38 crisis and recession. For me as an MP, this is incomprehensible and I don't understand when the financial crisis and recession set off alarms in all the countries of the world, and we act like it's none of our business. I guarantee we will pay a very high price of this kind of relationship to this global problem very quickly. Although the draft budget on the part of this budget has been reduced from 115 to 100 million KM, I still think it is inappropriate that the Central Bank's profit is used to finance public spending. If already the Central Bank and monetary policy are not in full function of the economic policy measures in BiH, then at least it was normal to use the Central Bank's profits as a means of economic policy, not to finance public spending as it seems here in this budget, and there is plenty of room for that, from interest subsidies to export incentives, etc. My biggest remarks that have not been removed from the first reading refer to the internal structure of the Budget within the budget expenditure. Now, with far more arguments, I'm going to say that there is no state in the world where salaries and salaries are over 70% of budget expenditure. In the time between the draft budget or the first and second readings, I was able to make an insight into the budgets of ten countries and not in any country, counting all the countries of the environment, the participation of salaries and wages fees does not exceed 35% of the budget expenditure. With all the differences in the jurisdiction of the state, this is an anomaly that, certainly, very quickly, will, of which, quite certainly, cause us a headache very quickly. I am aware that the state should have its budget but this is the way the picture and the difference in how the government works in this country. To be clear, this is not the budget of BiH's state institutions, this is the budget of the ruling six or three. What it means is, I don't think there's too much to explain, and this is just a small part of the reason why I have no intention of supporting either this budget, nor how it is irresponsible and irresponsible to approach it, because it would be, in some way, against the profession and against my conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23101	We have a replica. Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23102	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23103	I'm sorry, I had a license plate here. The next debater is Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23104	Thank you. I, as an MP, will say a little bit, however, some things about this budget and why I did not vote in the Finance and Budget Committee. Comrade Rifet Doliću, neighbor, countryman, to say that this is not the six-sixth budget and that everyone in the Commission voted for this budget. This is the three-way budget, the three-prudaš, so it's known right away. 39 First of all, we did not vote in favour of this budget and we in the Party for BiH will not support this budget for the reason that the state budget is shrinking year after year. This year the Fiscal Council has brought that... The budget can grow 12%, in 2007 the state received 16.3%, in 2008, the state received 14%, this year 12%, next year it will be 10%, in five years the state will be zero income if this pace continues. The SNSD is acting on principle to take or leave, because we know that the state minister voted "against" on the Fiscal Council, and at our meeting with the Commission, the state minister said there are 30 million more to be found beyond the fiscal council's decision. Apparently, that didn't work out for some of them. Unfortunately, colleagues from the SDA have supported this and I would never accept it, it's neither negotiation nor conversation, nor compromise, this is a pure blackmail take or leave by the SNSD. When it comes to amendments, I want to say why I didn't support it. First of all, the return grant is deleted... refugees and displaced persons to return from 97.53 million, and we know that in the Return Strategy, we need a billion marks in return for the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement for the period 2009-2014. In 2009, we need 200 million, 2010. 300 million. How serious is this strategy and individual parties that accept this budget, it is seen today in this budget, which will vote for this proposal. Apparently their goal is to never come back and to legalize it in the... list. In particular, I can't support the fact that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is totally bypassing this place and that... 35 million goes to the Return Fund. We, for a reason, because we know how to use funds at the Return Fund, to pool funds... This is consciously done to bypass the Ministry and those responsible, so they have no influence whatsoever, his voice being heard by the Minister of Resistance amongst nine. I have the same objections to the foreign ministry's capital allocations of 12.6 million, so it's deleted. We have that last year's lease costs were 19 million, this year they're cca 30 million. We consciously, so we don't want to go shopping for our facilities, which makes the state stronger, we want to be tenants. Despite the huge state property because we don't have... the law our state is a tenant. I think this economic review is not right, that is, Minister Vrankić said last time, an example of a tractor, an example of an apartment, whoever pays the rent of 1,000 marks is more likely to take a loan and buy an apartment, for five years it remains an apartment and a smaller war. Apparently, some people don't care about the state being stronger than the state being weak, and where it's most painful, it's in the economic field. Also, the BiH Court of Justice has been reduced as well. The defence ministry, meeting NATO standards, all are racing, who says, are the priority of European integration and NATO, the EU, and when doing so differently here is presented. ...and also reduced, especially reduced border police. We had it on the Commission and... Border police, we know what their impact is on the collection of income, and apparently some are matched by the gray economy and smuggling, and this leads to a reduction in income. It is also evident that every year, less and less separate into the state budget, and especially that this budget, which can be seen from it, has not been managed linearly. If it is 12%, it should apply to all ministries, to all institutions and since at this time, when this was behind the scenes, the two ministries are only down, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the ministers from the Party for BiH, were probably thought that the Prussian Troika would create a new Council of Ministers, and they also took care of that when doing this Bill on Budget. 40 There, I wouldn't say anything anymore. I believe that all MPs here who aim to strengthen the state, the state institutions, must once again stand by these blackmails and dictatorships, because if that is not said no, believe me, we will be able to have less and less budgets from year to year instead of going the other way, that the state is stronger every year, and entities are reducing budgets. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23105	Živković has an incorrect quote, followed by the replica Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23106	Thank you. I would like to say to my esteemed colleague, Bahtić and my countryman that this is not any budget of the Prudic Troika. This is the Budget adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in its first reading, and this is the Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as well as the laws of reform we adopted were not laws adopted by the six ruling without the SDA but were the laws of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, after which we received the signature. Therefore, that is how we should treat the documents that are here before us. And as I said for the first, here, and for the second time SNSD was not part of the problem but was part of the solution and we will continue to act like it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23107	Replica, Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think the reasons that Mr. Bahtić stated for failing to adopt this budget make any sense by calling the SDA, because especially that connection in terms of strengthening the state, return and so on, etc. Therefore, the state is strengthened through the reform of the Constitution, the state is strengthened through more competences of the BiH state and then it is inevitable that you have bigger budgets inside and this budget. So what's the big deal is that any increase in the current budget would have to be trapped somewhere in the federal budget or entity budgets, and you see what the problems are when it comes to the Federation of BiH entity when it comes to its budget. When it comes to the return item, I must repeat what I said last time. And last year, from the BiH presidency, we received a Bill on Budget where the return item was a million or two. So, with the position of the SDA Club, that amount has been increased to 32 or 3 million and this time it is the same situation, with the SDA requirement, that the funds for the return increase and it will be within this budget that will be adopted today, with or without you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23109	Just one moment, Mr. Kalabić, I've got you transformed again. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23110	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23111	Is it a replica? Here you go. Here you go, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23112	Here, although part of the replica was said by Mr Živković, since I, as a member of the Commission on Finance and Budget and on behalf of the SNSD Club, participated together with all other MPs in a democratic debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those who approach the mockery of BiH institutions do not think it is right. I mean, in the way that Mr. Dolić and Mr. Bahtić have been ridiculed today, I don't think the state deserves it in this way that her institutions are rolling in the mud, and her name, and that it's called some kind of, you know, this budget is going to be passed or will not be brought democratically in the procedure this parliament prescribes. It will always be one for, one against, always about the budget of the debate, but that this is how BiH works in the mud in some barf, in something, I don't think it deserves this debate or the state itself. There was no ultimatum. I wouldn't bother my colleagues, but Mr. Bahtić would now, if we had time, offer Mr. Branković's argument, the federal prime minister, and he would best explain why he was on the Fiscal Council for what you claim to be SNSD. We just copied what the man said. He's got his own problems, he's got what's bothering him, because he lives down there with the people, he's probably got certain obligations that some people here won't or, I don't know for what political reasons, they don't want to understand. But aside from the political attitudes, I'd like to pray that the procedure here doesn't defile itself. In this procedure the Presidency of the State, the Council of Ministers participates, and for some internal calculations on... dots this is still little, we should keep some level at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23113	I have reported: Bahtić Replic and Remzija Kadrić Replic. Here you go, Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23114	In one replica I will also use one bullet two rabbits, both colleagues Ahmetović and his colleagues Živković. He says it's not good. We all know that a couple of months ago we've been running very much arrangements and negotiations and that it's all connected and we know what the Council of Ministers has established and what went on in Banja Luka, we're all smart enough here to read between the lines. And no problem, she has most, let her adopt it. I'm just saying that I won't be the one to shut up and vote, to support someone who destroys the state and state institutions every year. 42 I, my colleague Sadik Ahmetović, must also replicate, to say, and that is the difference. We fight to strengthen the state, you... for strengthening entities like those of the RS, which is why you support them. I have here your document from the SDA Strategy... where you say it takes a billion. This is your act, not mine, a billion in five years. This year 200 million, the next 500, and you agree to nothing. What's that? Who's coming back? Explain it to the citizens, those returnees and the fugitive and displaced how this plan will look. This is your strategy, a billion marks. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, I was listening. It's all there is to it. It's not binding on anyone. I'll talk to you in a few years.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23116	Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23117	Thank you. So, briefly. This is a replica, in fact, a correction to the wrong allegation by Sadik Ahmetović. So last year's presidency proposed only a million marks for refugees. A far larger amount was proposed in the proposal, a far larger amount was. So you said there were millions of marks proposed. There were, a larger amount was proposed for refugees, there were about a hundred million marks proposed by the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23118	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23119	Well, you see, counterpart Bahtić narrows this story down to the entity-state relationship, I guess forgetting that by raising hands for the Fiscal Council Act he and those who have raised actually defined future relations in BiH and putting Parliament in office not to decide on Budžet. Essentially not to decide on the key, means the final amount of Budget, of course within Budget, within the item decides. So it is not correct today to forget it and try to make different relationships contrary to the position of the Fiscal Council. Here, I didn't support that law and then, remember, I warned about the consequences of some of the views of that law. Unfortunately, here, we are now in a position to see that it really is. So at least in that part we should be perfectly clear and correct towards each other and say, if nothing, the final amount is that because we have defined it as an obligation to accept it. We didn't have to, but we accepted. This inside now is another question you can talk about. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23120	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23121	My colleague Kadrić, take it, so there's a record, there's a tone record, there's everything in this House, take it, just dig through the materials, and you'll see the real truth so that you and I don't convince each other how. I said how much it was, so it's up to three million. All over $3 million, here, I'll publicly apologize here, if there was. When there was a proposal, just a little bit, just a little bit, so I'm not defending character and deed here, I apologize, you have that assignment today,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23122	A little patience, please, patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23123	The task today, therefore, is not a debate on the budget and the functioning of the BiH state, so go ahead. I suggest you take a look at this. And when it comes to strengthening entities,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23124	Please don't let me run the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23125	We only have in mind what is due to the Federation and to whom it is due to pay by jurisdiction in the current year. And you know everything... what should be respected when it comes to the Federation of BiH – and fighters and families of the Shah and all those who... (?) No microphone turned on It is at the level of the Federation of BiH. That's why every take from there would be less of them. So, so you...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23127	Please, Mr. Bahtić, so let the man speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23128	That's why I don't know, it's the only seminar we have to organize to teach people how to behave in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23129	Please just keep going, I'm sorry. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23130	Or should I interrupt the exposure that more...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23131	I'm obliged to introduce order and I'll lead...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23132	It doesn't make any sense. And that strategy can only be upgraded and we will accept everything you do best. It's no problem at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23133	Mr. Ajanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is where two directions are actually conflicting, and that is the direction it seeks to strengthen the state and the opposite direction that goes against the state, and this budget is totally against the state. However, I did not replicate it this way for this, but I will use my two minutes to say that I am concerned, concerned and surprised by the phenomenon of the victim where people who have been exiled from their hearths... where here they go against their own state, and this applies to Mr Ahmetović. First, it's a victim's phenomenon when you become one subject of the one who harassed you, and with that as a young man, it's very, very, not to say an ugly word, to tell the truth. Last year, the Council of Ministers, which is not actually the Council of Ministers but the Ministry of Finance, and here, the finance minister, proposed a million or two million to return refugees, and on a proposal from the Presidency, this was increased and there was a struggle last year over it. I will never vote for this budget because of what people do two-facedly. It's not a problem height Budget, it's an internal schedule, and everything breaks down to refugee returns, to fund refugee returns, and some declarations are given and some proposals that will never come true, and here it's said there's a desire to return. The desire to return exists only in those who vote and who are asking for the return of refugees to be the greatest figure there is. And what Dolić was saying, that's true. We've cut 1.6% for wages in Budget. That's ridiculous. If the whole country were to shrink by 2%, then that would be something, then we could do what needs to be done in the budget, and I think it's enough, that I've said enough what I thought and I think who supports absolutely this budget that this one is not well-intentioned to this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23135	We're going back to the list of those registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23136	No microphone 45 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23137	Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23138	So it's not the strengthening of the entity when we leave enough funds to give fighters, wartime wartime disableds, civilian war victims a monthly lower amount than the amount we get for a warm meal here, Mr. Sadik. So smaller. Soldiers 165 marks, I've got 265 marks for a hot meal. We have to give it to them. We in the Federation have 300,000 such persons. So to give them our warm meal, it's a billion a year, and we won't be able to avoid it, otherwise we'll have social unrest. And you can't do that. You're a responsible man, you know how to calculate, 2 and 2 are 4, you know well that it's so, that it's certainly not an entity strengthening, but a direct need, present, inevitable, we have to give it away. From where? We can't take it and put it on state level for a return, so to strengthen institutions, you know. Don't pretend you don't see things and accuse us of not supporting the state. You have the conclusion that we're in charge of 400 million that today will be, I think, supported here and he's real and there's a chance that we'll spend 400 million marks on the return process. It's unrealistic to say that 97 or 100 million should be put in Budget. You know very well that the people of the RS will not support it, you well know it's unrealistic, Mr. Sadik. Next, you're saying that the problem is that the funds went to the Return Fund, not the Ministry. Well, that came with your signature, as far as I could tell. What did you sign? You signed there that 35 million marks go to the Fund, not the Ministry. Now who are you accusing of this 35 million dollars for coming back?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23139	Bahtić, second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23140	Second and last. Well, let me just say, just like that, he says, you can't see. It's all clear here, you can see everything. The SDA MP, Mr Sokolović, has just proposed an amendment to delete 97.5.33 for the return of refugees and displaced persons. It is, so SDA erases 97 million, and here some conclusions and declarations that will never be, to blur the eyes. He says I signed it. I did sign that amendment, and most, normally, voted against but it's an amendment from the SDA that the minister's elimination site is resolute and that it goes through the Return Fund. That's what everyone needs to know, Bakire. You know that well. It's all from the documents. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...I'm fine and this is all in here and I'm going to ask you after 90 days where this money is... in Parliament. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23142	Sokolović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23143	Mr. Chairman! So, Mr Bahtić, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, knows well that we have reached one conclusion on the Commission, because the two proposals of the budget that we had and held in our hands, in fact two texts, was one draft given by the Council of Ministers, one proposal from the Presidency, adopted principles and then we said as the Commission that we would go in this direction to respect the frameworks of the Fiscal Council when it comes to income and that, within the limits of possible, we would respect what the Presidency has given in its draft budget and Parliament adopted this. So that's an indisputable fact. But we have a dilemma. A reasonable man has a dilemma, Mr. Bahtić, whether he will have a budget of the BiH state or not. And through this, it can express love for BiH, so through it it can be expressed, or that reasonable idea of BiH's Budžet estate requires a certain compromise. So if you have people who don't want Budget, under some conditions possible in some state, the way it's right here in front of us, then I think reason should win because inside that budget we have all this stuff that we're talking about, just whether it's a ladder up or a ladder down or somewhere in the middle. I think it's raised up and the BiH state with this budget can move forward. So, and these 35 million who are here at the Return Fund, today's adopted Budget, will be made to realize the spending of these funds. Without these, without this budget of 2.5 billion, with 100 billion in September of the month, you will not enter into the realisation of the budget and then those returnees you loved for 2.5 billion and those who today... for 35 million can ask you who was their bigger friend, etc. Finally, respecting the BiH state institution is respect and decision of the Fiscal Council. So, we fought here to push that law through. This Fiscal Council has given the frameworks of the Budget and inside it it is fair to listen to those experts who said in the Fiscal Council that this is the framework, not the two people who gave it to someone there, so they didn't come here to defend what they proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23144	Time, Mr. Sokolović!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23145	I'll be right there. So they were supposed to come here, so maybe they'd convince me to look at these things differently. They just sent it, so, well, you see it there, fight. But I think a reasonable man should think reasonably and that love for BiH and Budget is adopted here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23146	Here I hope we're back on the list of those registered for discussion. Zlatko Lagumdžija. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23147	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry that we came into this situation and I believe that even those who vote for a lot of things will be sorry for them, one that they haven't succeeded anymore, to others that have failed less. We have given our amendments, us several MPs, which together, which separates you from the SDP. I'll just say something about these amendments, or the Commission's proposal. We believe that the Budget, which is ahead of us with amendments adopted by the Commission, is therefore what the finance minister accepts and which has won most of the commission and, apparently, here, we will see, or we will see, but there is reason to believe that the Prussian coalition has a majority. Let's not lie to each other, this is the Prussian budget. I mean, we can call it what we want, but that's objective. Even some of the things that were in that Prussian deal, which seemed to be some sort of bait for at least one of them, obviously melted in this budget. I highly appreciate the efforts of the SDA Club to reach the budget, and when all the arguments come down to it, it's best to have Budget than not to have it, then objectively means that we hit the bottom behind which there is only no Budget. I must admit that this conclusion here should be some sort of replacement for what we all know is missing in the budget. This conclusion is, we're not lying, this conclusion is just saving our cheeks at some point a colleague from the U.S.A. I understand them, they have probably a wider picture and they think that with the Prudish Agreement they're going to get some other stuff and what they're saying, I'd like them to succeed in what they want to get extra. However, in order for you to have a conclusion on implementation in the next two years according to the programme, you need to see the implications of that conclusion in any way in the Budget, which is objectively not seen. So, in Budget, this conclusion does not objectively exist. And this conclusion without its reflection in Budget is the same as not having it. So I wouldn't be surprised if you even had a farthest majority for this conclusion, because it's actually objectively nothing to solve, except that colleagues from the U.S.A. are going to convince us that that's what could have happened. It also raises the question of this 35 million for the Fund. There's a question that we didn't get an answer to, let's assume it's some hope figures, the question is why she's the 32.5 million from the Budget for the past year that was at the refugee ministry why she's moved now, but it looks like she just moved and ended up in the Refugee Fund with 35 million. In other words, to be very clear, don't explain, it sounds nice, we've provided 35 extra million. You didn't provide anything. Last year it was... 32.5 million very high-quality 32.5 million. If you have, gentlemen of the ruling majority, as we have in the opposition, to realize that 32.5 million, then that's why people who haven't done it are being replaced, not replaced by 32 million. This is where we made the reverse, and 32 million changed, other people. So wait a minute, where are we now? On the other hand, the public here is trying, and I understand, that's good, there's still some savings, and now we're trying to detect whether it's 1.6 or 1.2 reduction, but it doesn't change things for us. It's 1.6 or 1.2, it turns out really, now we get this table, I thank you, it turns out in fact that you've made a much smaller reduction than that, practically 3% 48 is a decrease, because in the Budget of the Presidency for Gross Payments the increase was 30%, and you've now objectively managed to cut it pretty much, and now it's 27%, right, by 3% it's reduced by various mathematics. What's this about? We objectively have a Budget in front of us, which compared to the Budget of last year, for the record, has not been cut by wages anything. It is relative to some imaginary figure, but it rose 27% for gross payments compared to last year, and that should be known. Here it is explained that it is a function of strengthening institutions, patriotism, etc. Possibly, but I wish that patriotism had been seen in functional things, not in administrative matters. So, to be clear, we're against being like this, so we've given concrete amendments, Mr. Chairman, as the SDP Club to save some things on administration, and to functionally make things stronger. We think there's still room for refugees, not just these 35 million that actually grew by 32.5. There's still room. In other words, let's be clear, we're against increasing gross payments by 27%, as far as this whole math shows. We're particularly against it, and we've had a few amendments, I'm not going to say them specifically, they're seen here, talking about the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Look at the four institutions of the judiciary, the High Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Council, the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Court of BiH and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Last year in Budget, the four institutions had 31 million. Together when you add, what a strange coincidence, this year they also have 31 million. We left them independent, we just left them their expenses to be with the increase in total zeroes, yes. And we believe, and that's why our amendments, complete our amendment, were meant to strengthen the functions of the prosecution, precisely in two segments of important, war crimes and the fight against organised crime and corruption. Okay, well, maybe it's a bad example of this latest incident about the Department of Security with this terrorism and organized crime, but this is what I'm talking about, the D.A., I'm not talking about the Department of Security. So we suggested that the prosecution, in the material that is before us, we have the Prosecutor's Office, four judicial institutions remain independent and remain without any increase in resources for their function. This objectively does not lead to strengthening judicial institutions, what we believe should be our fight. Also, I want to point out that we are in our amendments and I would ask you at least to read them; we have an item here that we found in savings, in wages, in travel expenses, in contracts, etc. Which suggests 66 million marks for, conditionally speaking, the stimulation of our economy. We are not as ambitious as fellow Lijanović. We're not so ambitious because we know that with this ambition we have no chance of getting anywhere, so when we ask zero to go to 500 million, then we get nothing. We thought from zero to 66 maybe there'd be some sense here to come up with that. The more you have companies from all over BiH who, thanks to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, came into position, we have said, that now some of the companies that imported for export to the EU were freed from customs duty until half a year ago to imports of goods that were built into the EU, and are now burdened with these funds, with these customs duties when they are exported. Be careful when they export to the EU, after the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We thought there was room to do something about it. Also, what concerns us particularly, which is some seemingly minor fact, which is that, let's say, last year you had reserved for police reform, because you expected there to be reform, 600,000 marks. This year after you passed these laws on police reform, I see you have nothing reserved for it, which, I must admit, is a little strange that now for the 49 police reform after the laws were passed, and it looks like we decided not to do it anyway, so when we didn't have the laws, we booked some 600,000, and now that we have laws, we don't book anything. And finally finish. I believe, and indeed, that the gentlemen of the Party for BiH, given that they, indeed, act as some sort of retribution towards them, according to their ministers, this works like this, but I think they have a very simple solution, which is that their ministers, I find it unacceptable that now, I will not enter the analysis here, it is very clear how we increase the cost of the building's rent, we will not buy. It's completely pointless, I mean, it's clear when the day is now that it's cheaper to buy in the West, in the U.S. our mission in New York or somewhere, so buy a building than to pay big money here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23148	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23149	And to finish with that time, apparently, Mr. Chairman, as if you knew what I was going to say. So, I expect the Ministers of the Party for BiH who do not find themselves in the Budget, their proposals do not pass, to withdraw with honor and thus to let these Prudence Troika go, brother, honestly, and see how far they get, let them all be fortunate. True, they have a bad role model in the SDA whose security minister remained in the Council of Ministers, although his law on police has failed and he only shouted as a callimeter that it was an injustice. So, objectively, given that I'm running out of time, Mr. Belkić, I think I've made myself clear, we're against this bill of law on Budget, but we invite people who have political representatives in the Council of Ministers to come out of this with dignity, when the country already has a problem with having us as we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23150	But here's another 10 minutes. Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23151	Is it for a colleague of Zlatko or for me? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the chairman mentioned earlier that we are focusing more on amendments and less on the Budget where we held the debate in our first reading. But it's really impossible to look back at this proposal, because after this, when the Commission adopted these amendments, we actually get basically a whole new budget, you know. Therefore, it is impossible to look back at that budget, because it is now an official proposal. What I'm saying is that we consider this budget to be purely bureaucratic at the very least. So you can't explain in any way, in the concept of what policies have led us to set this budget exactly like this. What's characteristic is that all the budget users of 50 got one easy position so they can be comfortable, and I say bet, at the level of this status quo, where they're covered happily by good wages, expenses that go all the way, all the expenses that go to pay and expenses. And, of course, if an analysis of the spending on individual institutions from the previous year is carried out, it can be seen that they had a problem with the spending of these funds, at least to the extent that they do not come into conflict with the audit. So there's no critical reference anywhere. Secondly, I think it is really incomprehensible that in the year that awaits us, so in this year, we do not countercipe at all some relevant conditions of commitment and life in BiH. So, conditions where job layoffs can be expected, job losses and further deterioration of the social situation in BiH, it is embarrassing, it is immoral that such relatively good wages in BiH institutions grow by 30%. It is unacceptable and inexplicable, it is indeed a question of man whether we are real and whether we respect the conditions in which we live. Now, in that sense, I also want to, although my colleague Lagumdžija gave an explanation of the essence of our amendments, I just want to underline the following. So when these items are found in this proposal which, I say, characterise only the bureaucratic approach of the Budget, it means to reconcile only beings and functioning at the existing level of the existing institutions. We felt that there were good reserves that on the first six items, i.e. the first six of these items relating to gross payments, employee costs, travel expenses, contracted and other special services, and transport and fuel services, without any difficulty in jeopardising the functioning of these institutions, could take down 128 million. And the next two million we found at the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency. Please, that item states that under current grants, the Foreign Investment Support Fund will amount to 2 million KM. I am now sincerely asking you, as colleagues, whether it is clear to anyone what this fund will promote and what it will give the effects to touch foreign investment in BiH. So, in this way, 130 million would be ensured that nothing, but nothing at all, would endanger the existing functioning of BiH institutions, and if you see little of this amendment, then essentially, other than 5.5 million, of these 130 that would go to the financing of the institutions of culture, technical culture and innovation and co-financing of sports manifestations and assistance in the protection of national monuments, so if this were not counted on by some productive investments, of 5.5 million, all other funds would go to help domestic production to improve capital investments, for housing for building their own business premises, for the installation of BiH institutions. In this way, we would still secure a figure of about 120 and some million that would go into some kind of investment spending that is very important and very important for the period in which we will live this year. And finally, in order to establish and confirm this, we have one amendment, the last amendment that we advocate to spend on salaries and the cost of employees per employee, cannot exceed the amount of the previous year, except for the part that is necessary to cover the increase in the cost of living in BiH this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23152	Savo Erić. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23153	Like this, I don't know if I should be giving a political speech or going over the amendments, but I have to tell you a little politics, because this is politics and it's definitely political. Last time I discussed it, I said that as a member of the Commission, I don't understand these relationships, and now I get it. So, still, Budget should be adopted there in March somewhere, to discuss it by March, and then we'll be spending that Budget again next year, just like this last one we didn't spend, and surely we'll have much more consequences than we have now. It is a big problem and therefore do not form a Fiscal Council in the future unless we respect the Fiscal Council. The minister is a professional person and so one MP cannot invest amendments and waste time if he has not entered into the profession enough and has not connected all mathematical formulas, except rhetorical, linguistic and political. That's the problem with why we come in this position. And then two concepts are put in place, and there's a fight between two concepts, and in the end millions are passing through, and this country is getting more and more tones, and then there are rescuers who are handing out. Let's get back to this budget. So we had two options. One is more professional, one is more political, in a way. And on the other hand, there is little room left for the amendments to react, because time has passed, trains pass. I'll tell you, there were about 160 amendments somewhere. So that already shows how serious the Bill of Budgets is. Therefore, if these amendments were to be seriously considered, the Commission should work on a regular basis for one 15 days, not one two or three hours. So that's one of the problems we need to solve. But we're gonna put that aside now. So, I'd go back to what some of our remarks are about this budget. If we say they're paying for foreign debt, they end up with 80 percent of the budget, then we're left with really little room for amendments and some serious stuff that we're up against. If we wanted to do that, we had to have math on how to have 300-400 million more than last budget, so if we'd thought a little bit about economics, if we'd passed a new law on procurement, we wouldn't be spending last year's funding until various tenders are over, then this year we're spending the budget from last year, while we're late, then we're going to spend 2010. There's the problem. One of the other problems is the difference where it increases where it does not increase. Here's an example I'm just going to point out is an army. If we give about 60 million troops and give the economy, the result will be none. We know what kind of army he is, maybe he'll be changing equipment or new weapons that we'll be burning somewhere else in ten years or paying to burn again, or there's some other stories we didn't understand. And if you go back to the economy, then you won't have any fear of recession, so we'll probably have 100 million through the trade or through the trade marks on the daily level, and we've got a trade mark on the six-month level, if we understand each other enough. And what I'd like to draw attention to, so we haven't left room to discuss this budget since our customs duties are lifted, and we voted to abolish customs duties, we adopted CEFTA. We didn't want to deal with the consequences, what's going to happen. The consequences are millions of dollars, gentlemen. Where do you make up for them? And we're asking what our budget will be next year. Will this economy endure, will these people still agree to separate 17% in this way, with this law on procurement, with this kind of corruption that we have in 52 states, and will there be room to even think about 800 million administrative costs and wages? That's the question. And that's why I suggest that as soon as possible, you've already decided, most likely we have 22 votes today to consider this policy, to finish, to adopt this budget. I voted for one part of the amendment, the fact is that we have to help refugees and everyone else, but the bigger consequence is if we drag these amendments out by March and adopt. So we probably have a budget today and I'll say hi. And that's clear. But really, I suggest that we sit down afterwards and I propose that the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission consider the costs of last year and that we can now consider and think about the draft budget in October, gentlemen, not to consider it again in January or February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23154	Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23155	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, although there have already been indications through the polemic debates about the position of the Party for BiH in the debate on Budget in the second reading, let me perhaps repeat something and draw attention to something special. We, in our definition of the budget, or the Commission's report with the amendments adopted, have determined that all that we see before us as a mirror of policy. So we have tried to see in what direction the position of the state and its obligations, above all international obligations, is changed, which is, of course, the logistics provided through the budget of state institutions and international obligations, and we have also paid particular attention to the changes in the structure of the Budget itself that we have not analyzed just in quantitative terms. So, in the reductions or possible increases in certain items, as much as in the messages, or the policy behind it. Here, let me draw attention to the party for BiH, of course, against adopting the Commission's report with amendments adopted for several reasons. First, we oppose the general reduction of budget items on the side of income and expenditure in the budget of state institutions and international obligations, believing that the country on its way to EU membership has a special need to strengthen institutional capacities and build new ones. The reason for this attitude lies in the fact that, continuously from year to year, the relative participation of the funding of state institutions from the Single Account in favour of the lower authorities. The second argument and reason, such a proposal not only reduces the nominal amount for the functioning of the real institutions but also further, by changes in the structure of the Budget, dissipates them. We pay particular attention to this when it comes to the work and functioning of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which I have previously been talking about, but what I am drawing particular attention to is the almost inability to implement the return programme that is in the power of this ministry. I would like to mention that the amendments and the revised proposal, so the Budget by the Presidency, were made and additional errors at the damages of the BiH state and state participation and 53 ways of functioning state institutions in the implementation of the Return Fund programme. These raised arguments for state institutions to adequately position themselves in the overall mechanism and the way the Return Fund works. This, of course, raises the question, i.e. the question and purpose of the functioning and existence of a state institution. So, and the propos of arguments, mentioned by a colleague of Lagumdžija, our arguments are neither personal nor party, but primarily institutional. And finally, let me mention that the Party for BiH sees the hypocritical adoption of such a budget with a drastic reduction in the items relating to the return and at the same time the verbal push for the realisation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. We believe that if a single item of budgetary expenditure in the consumer reduction definition should be bypassed, that item is foreseen for return. Not only is it surprising but it only exposes the verbal commitment of some political parties to truly approach the key issues related to the restoration of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. These are, of course, just some of the reasons that we considered important in explaining our position when voting on the Commission's Report and adopting automation and amendments to the harm of the BiH state. And let me say, I haven't used the possibility of replicating or correcting the wrong quote before, but here, I really need to say, as an integral part of this discussion to Mr. Sokolović, that we don't have a dilemma whether or not Budget. They may be justified by some argument, and here if I should specifically suggest that the BiH Party has absolutely no dilemmas, yes or no. We are against everything that is at the expense of the BiH state. Furthermore, colleagues of Ahmetović a proposal for his concern for the character and work of the BiH presidency member to say that we have a lot of understanding in the BiH Party that you must represent the Prudic arguments. However, this does not justify you, or we have no excuse, even though we have an understanding. However, we expect that, at least because of our compassion for you, be correct when you justify your actions. And here, I appreciate fellow Ahmetović that it would be much better to have justice in the language of arguments, because I suppose he knows how to use the language of arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23156	We have a replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23157	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, a little bit of this debate as the more difficult words move away, I would ask you to be careful when it's being debated. To accuse someone of being hypocritical is a great accusation. No Niko from the SDA is hypocritical and, counterpart Hadžiahmetović, please agree with the SNSD Budžet that will allow 300 million to return and allow a billion to return, which will allow both the Federation and the RS and Brcko District to function. The SDA will support you in that. And the real discussion would have been if you had put that formula out. Then I'd be worried. But I won't charge you with what you accused the SDA. That's one thing. 54 And the other thing, someone didn't establish a 95 million budget for the return and make it indisputable, so then the SDA said we're not 94, we're done with 35. He went to the Bureau with 300,000 marks to return. And then the Presidency increased the item for the state 180 million but did not say where to take it, increased the overall framework that should violate the Fiscal Council Act and the Fiscal Council that should be taken from the entity and the money and that to the state, which means less money for the entity budget, among other things, and in the Federation, for everything the Federation needs to do, and we know what the situation is with the Federation. And then it was the SDA that started this discussion and secured, through internal redistribution, 35 million for Budget. Of course, not just the SDA, the SDA was the initiator, all those involved. And that's true, that's true. Yeah, and SNSD, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23158	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23159	That's the truth about what we're talking about. By tomorrow you can insult the SDA, you can by tomorrow, this is now, so the situation is what it is. We have chosen to go this way, to ensure, therefore, the least funds that were in Budget last year and that we have Budget BiH. Mr. Bahtić, I beg you as I speak, I have never spoken to you, neither do you speak to me. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23160	Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23161	First, correcting the wrong quote. I will only remind you that I said that not only surprises but also exposes only the verbal involvement of some political parties to truly approach the key issues related to the restoration of the Bosnian Herzegovina society. I'm here, if anyone saw any party by chance, I've been very clear, can take a look at a stenogram with a discussion. However, what surprises me is that I don't really know... how in all of this did Mr. Šefik Džaferović recognize the SDA?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23162	Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23163	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23164	May I have your attention, please? 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23165	Mr. Džaferović, I don't know what context you're putting the SNSD club here. We're not a remethyling factor, but we're pragmatic and real, by the system how big our yorgan is to cover up. So, we have nothing to bargain with, we've already agreed with everyone who wants to make a deal with us. And we're not just partners of the BiH Party, not just you, not just the SDP, but all the MPs here. We're looking for real solutions. So, all the time (?) No microphone turned on You were our main partners, but who did this to you when you left? So what do we do now? common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23167	Here you go, Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23168	So, we wanted to and we wondered, and who today is whether we and this budget, if we adopt it, I hope we will, make it happen. Is someone keeping an eye on whether incomes will be the way they're supposed to be. Does anyone care if this budget is really affected by the recession we've been in since the end of the war, because I said in the last session? So, please, SNSD is not a remethyl factor, nor does it affect here to destroy the stability of the state you keep swearing to. But do you think that by means of some unrealistic means and budget, you will strengthen the state, and that this is your main goal to bring down the entities? That's not gonna happen. Well, it's in your best interests, too, and I support Mr. Izetbegović's exposure that really these categories he was talking about get those funds. Well, they won't get them from this parliament. You know what jurisdiction is. So please be as honest with us as we are with you. We've told you how much it's a framework and said the Fiscal Council that we support. And no more, I don't really want to, where I get the right to hurt the Presidency, but the Presidency is the formal proposer of this budget, it has nothing to do with these figures. This was prepared by the minister and the finance ministry, adopted by the Council of Ministers, gave them, they signed, added some figures as I would each day add to each item of the figures I would constantly add. So, I respect the authority of every institution and, of course, I will always respect it. But we have to be realistic. How did this budget come to be planned and where in this form he came from and from the Presidency and from the Fiscal Council and the burden on us to adopt him today? I'm asking you, if this is the only possible thing and you're suggesting all the numbers you want, 35, 150, 300 million, just put it there, but then it's not in your best interest for Budget to adopt. Let's be honest and realistic. So please, don't put SNSD in a negative context. We want to adopt the Budget, and here we are ready to support it. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23169	I had Mr. Džaferović reported for replication. Not anymore. Okay. We'll be back, thank you very much, and we'll be back to the list of those registered for discussion. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23170	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I wanted today through a debate on this agenda point, carefully looking at the amendments that have been tabled, especially to the amendments by SDP and Mr Denis Bećirović, in the sense that indeed some of the amendments, which have been submitted, are personally acceptable to me and I wish that space had been left behind, by preparing in a quality way, for these amendments to be accepted. I'll only mention four amendments, and I'd really like what I said, not to say it again, to explain it a little bit. Amendment number VIII Denis Bećirović: to increase funds for the Directorate for European Integration. I really feel the need to make a step up here to increase those funds. Amendment XIII for talented students and students 7 million to help team... Bosnianhercegovic students, gifted students to expand their knowledge and get new knowledge. The amendment..., i.e. Amendment XI for design studies and project documentation on Corridor Vc amounting to 27 million. And Amendment VIII. These are the two amendments last by the SDP, which reads "the housing of BiH institutions of 16 million". These are really good, quality and necessary amendments and the necessary funds for BiH for me. However, in the explanation from which items to take these funds, it is so vague that you cannot decide that you are for this amendment to increase the resources for making the planning documentation on Corridor Vc, where you will take them from. I would really like to be able to give a vote for these amendments, but it's not clear, it's not written, it's not specified from which funds, but it's basically taken here somewhere, and it's put here. Perhaps it would be useful both for the state and possibly for these some of the amendments that have been made here and brought out, I say I speak for myself,... and have been prepared in a manner that is appropriate, especially this Amendment VIII for the installation of BiH institutions. Here is the minister, last time we heard about the 10 minutes, and I, i.e. both at home, accepted the conclusion that we had committed the Council of Ministers to do the ‘Institutory Accommodation Programme’, i.e. 30 million a year, we use these funds. I got some information, it seems to me from the Minister's statement, that this isn't the Ministry of Finance's information, came from the Secretary General, and probably not the same information. Here, in that sense, in this amendment, I would ask the Minister here to tell us,... to see what amendments are possible, what is the maximum possible amount of Budget, and that we cannot do this from Budget, whether there is a solution of the Council of Ministers to find a way, a programme for finding 57 funds to permanently resolve the accommodation of the institutions in order to reduce this item that is here. So it's not everything in Budget. And finally, to conclude, that the Prudish Agreement and the conclusion of the SDA Club is clear to one another and it is an attempt, and indeed those who try in the way that Mr. Džaferović said, in a way that they demean, to play, to mock this attempt, this is a coherent attitude and an attempt to help the returnees, the only possible at this time, and secondly, with all these throws, I have not heard a really other solution. Perhaps I would have voted for him if I had heard of any other solution if it had come, perhaps even better if it were safe, there would have been other MPs who would have voted for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23171	We have a replica of Mr. Križanović, but before the replica, I'd like to ask the gentleman. Sir, who you sat down in the MPs' benches to sit down there. Here you go, Mr. Križanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I don't know if it's a replica, but let me try to answer my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23173	So I'm asking you to sign up for a replica to be a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23174	Thank you fellow Nanić for showing interest in these amendments and the rest is like, as far as I understand, unclear how the funds for these items we propose for...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23175	Can I have your patience, please? If you're tired, let's take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23176	I said at the beginning that we... were within the first seven amendments listed where the funds were removed, above all wages, expenditures etc. And then there are amendments to where these funds are located and the balance is fully balanced. It's about removing 130 million and deploying 130 million, as it was given in the amendments. So I would like to point out once again that it has been very serious and in the best interest to fix this. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23177	Sefer Halilović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23178	Mr. Chairman, I've made amendments and, to be honest, I don't expect them to be adopted but it works.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23179	Please talk to me for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23180	For the sake of the record, let it stand at least in the documentation that someone once drew attention to something that, apparently, is here in this House, or this ruling coalition, taboo topic. I'm not voting for this budget for, in my opinion, four important reasons. The first reason is that it is from the previous discussion, not to repeat, that we are not wasting time, clearly shown that this budget is not stronger but weak state institutions. Secondly, the second reason is that there is insufficient funds to return, which is unacceptable, because in the end, if there is no return, I think we agree at least in that part, that we will all question the survival of the BiH state. Thirdly, the Council of Ministers and the ruling coalition and this draft of the budget show neither the minimum will nor the desire to start to deal with that practice called the black market, I have spoken of it many times and I have no intention of talking about it anymore, and to catch up with crime and corruption, because we are both the leading country in the region, and that means in Europe as well. And fourthly, there are no incentive, development projects, and most importantly there are no incentives for domestic export incentives. I'll just take two or three sentences to briefly look back. I think that, and that would be a lot to say, it's a very hypocritical policy that stands for the divine return, because, I'm the last time, and I'll just say it again, for a short time, that it's inexplicable that exiles, some exiles, unfortunately, not all of them, but some exiles or most of them have made better houses in the Tuzlani hinterland, the Sarajevo hinterland and the Mostaric hinterland than they have a domestic population. So the question of coming back is a very complex question. The question of what kind of money they made them out of. And while I'm talking about it, then I'm going to say one more thing, which I may not be supposed to say, but I'm going to say, look at the elected representatives in the parliaments of Cantonal, Federal and State, look at the people who are like from RS territory, see where they live. And ask them what kind of money they made those houses, these huge houses, those fairies. So until the current 59 elections, the head of the Srebrenica Municipality lived in Vogosca in a large villa and served as head of the Municipality of Srebrenica. And I think we should finally open the story of coming back and what I'm talking about is just one group of questions. Another group of issues that show that the policy that advocates a return to God, and does everything in the remnant, is hypocritical and therefore has too many arguments. I'll just say one thing. Let them change the laws that make it impossible to return. In entities and in this parliament and cantons, may the laws that prevent the return be resolved in this way, according to the assessment of serious people, 10% to 20% of returnees who walk between entities... so as not to lose their privilege in the Sarajevo canton or the Tuzlan or Herzegovina, Bisca, etc. Therefore, I think that this conclusion proposed by the SDA Parliament Club will only be supported when they convince me that they are truly sincere in what they say. I don't think so, because if they did, they wouldn't have adopted a whole set of laws that prevents us from coming back. For a short time, I served as refugee ministers at the Federal Ministry, and then I understood that there were actually two major problems that are much bigger than finance, than the money being invested in return. At the time it was still an actual property, i.e. the return of property and legislation. This first part of the return on property has been largely resolved, but the legislation prevents a large number of returnees from returning to their homes and therefore, for these reasons, very loudly and clearly argue that this policy, which advocates, is hypocritical and has double criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23181	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23182	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, colleagues, of course, here I can start over. So, distinguished colleagues, respected fellow MPs, you see, I think that here today, behind these microphones, we're playing with citizens in both entities and in the Brcko District and in BiH as a whole. So if we take this paper and look at how many citizens it applies to, then we'll see that this is a single-digit number, a single-digit number. In fact, it mainly applies, even if they were to exclude these returnees now, only applies mainly to employees of BiH institutions. And it's not clear to me that my colleagues think they can get some political points and votes by criticising or proposing amendments that, for one category of citizens, need to be able to achieve some significant benefit. I have to say that I'm sure that on this budget, however he looks, whoever adopted him, whoever suggested the amendments, no one will get any votes in the next election. That's for sure. We can, after all, see that colleagues from the Party for BiH showed that they fought for refugees and displaced persons in the past budget last time, so they went to the polls as they went. Here, I suggested staying funds, so refugees in Prnjavor voted for SNSD, and the rest in Prnjavor mass. So no one's gonna get points on this budget. And that's why I think it was much better that the parties, which make up the parliamentary majority, had seriously sat down at the table and agreed on this budget before the Fiscal Council. If they couldn't before, then after the Fiscal Council. All of this today is about playing with people's patience, and basically they don't have any of this. That's why we haven't even given, after all, 60 amendments, because we've had experience in the past years that when the opposition gives amendments then they won't be adopted and a majority is made anyway. We were convinced that even now a majority would be made that would adopt some amendments and bring this framework into something that eventually people would sit in the Council of Ministers from some six parties. We're in a position today to tell the opposition this is Budget Six, the Six says this is Budget Three, and the Three says this is SNSD pressed us, so we had to. Here, that's the relationship now that we're discussing Budget. Instead of making sense, this will be the budget of the parties that make up the Council of Ministers. It's the least expected of each budget. And that today this budget is being prepared at the will of these parties and adopted. Of course, the opposition has always been against the budget, so I guess we don't have to point out that we'll be against this budget. Well, here's the SDP against pay increases, and their presidency member proposed a 39% increase for the presidency. He voted in favour of this budget, or proposed this budget. So he's okay with it, and the SDP doesn't agree with it, etc. There's a lot of illogicality here, and I think it would be really good to take a break, of course I'm not looking for a break, because I think it'll take a break for lunch, but it would be good to take a break and have these parties sit down, the representatives of these parties sit down and finish this story during the break, so after that, we don't waste any time. And I'll just say a few really illogical things. I'm saying we didn't have any amendments, we didn't even have amendments, we didn't even propose a list, and that's what we've proposed every year, I guess, based on the Prudish Agreement, they'll find their place here. From what I can see, it hasn't found, so now that the press is asking me what the fate of the Prudish Agreement really is, I don't know what to tell them after, here's this budget when it's adopted. But what I don't understand here is with certain ministries under these tables some hints. Well, for example, the Department of Defense says that the total amount of funds is included in the 2009 Joint Effort exercise, and there is no explanation why the lease has been increased 25 times. And to me, let's say, first of all, this number fell into my eyes that the lease was increased 25 times and that I suggested I write an explanation of what it was that affected that the lease was 25 times larger, or, I don't know, with the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, the lease was increased almost 19 times. And they wrote that the total amount includes the programmes of the 2010 EXPO World Exhibition in Shanghai, the People's Republic of China, the Board of Appeal and the Commission for State Property. And now that two or three institutions write something like this, then I'm thinking logically why they wrote this. Is because they point this out or hide something. So if we don't think about what's hidden out there, let's know that this is important what's pointed out. And I think, let's say it's for example. in these contractual and other special services where the increase, where index 209 – is hidden. Something the SDP colleague was talking about, on parliamentary matters. But good. So the fact is that there are a number of objections both real and non-exposed but also the fact that we're going to have to have Budget. Like this or something. And the fact is that the responsibility for not having Budgets is all those who make up the Council of Ministers. Neither the Prudish Agreement nor the SDA, but all those who make up the Council of Ministers. And it's not like the ministers are going to sit there without any responsibility for not having a budget. And that members of the Bureau will finish their work by proposing an unreal budget and never coming to Parliament again. And we don't have anyone from the presidency today, we don't have a Council of Ministers. We are adopting the most important law that Parliament adopts in one year. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23183	Wrong quote, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23184	Thank you, Chairman. If you look at our Commission's report on finance and budget and look at Amendment XVII, you will see that by a million dinars has been increased in the BiH Statistics Agency item 'Contract and other jobs', (?) Maraca? (marks, yes), for the purpose of preparing the census. On this basis, you made the wrong conclusions regarding the implementation of the Prudish Agreement. Here, that's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23186	Here, before we continue with the debaters reported to agree on how we're going to work. So we should probably take a break, I don't know if we need a lunch break. If we need to, we have three other registered debaters, so... maybe we should finish by 3 o'clock, take a break at 3 o'clock and continue at 4 o'clock, with me already announcing that, apparently, this session is probably not going to be over today, I am announcing a follow-up for tomorrow. Here you go, Mr. Remzija Kadrić. So in 3 we'll take a break by 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23187	Here, I thank you. I will indeed, in this respect, very briefly comment on this amendment that concerns refugees and displaced persons, to speak, to try to make a contribution, to try to make one contribution when it comes to the realization of the refugee programme, to the return of refugees and displaced persons. And here is a minister who can explain these things a little bit better when it comes to these procedures on the realisation of these programs and the spending of funds for refugees and displaced persons. And in this respect, if I did not go broadly, I would suggest one conclusion, and I think that the House should accept that conclusion, and it would say about this: ‘It is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to prepare for amendments and supplement the relevant regulations in the area of more efficient implementation of the refugee return programme and 62 displaced persons, in which, among other things, the possibility of reducing procedures in the realisation of these programmes will be envisaged.’ It takes, as far as I got the information, about 300 days to implement it in one program. And I think this home should accept this one conclusion to find some possibility through changes to the relevant regulations that indeed this process of programme realization should be made as effective as possible and as close as I can to these users, and all of these apply to them. And in that part, and in this respect, let me cut short to be as effective as possible, I propose this conclusion, and I think that... MPs should accept it and thus make a contribution to the return of refugees and displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23188	Please submit the proposal to the service, that the MPs receive it in good time. We're going back to the list of registered debaters. Denis Bećirović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, I apologize, but Momčilo Novaković has applied for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23190	Well, you see, my colleague Živković, last year, I prepared the amendment that he spoke about the census last year, and which, based on the expert assessment, defined the amount if the 2011 census was to be made out of the required 7 million KM. So, not on the basis of some of my flat-rate judgments, but expert evaluations. That it is now necessary to provide 7 million in 2009 as the initial year of preparation. I'm afraid that you're partly right when you say -- yes, we've provided something -- but with this million, I'm afraid we won't, I'm not afraid, but I'm sure we won't have a list of 2011. I think so, and I guess that's our goal, and I guess that's what you guys set up back there in Prud, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23191	Please, here's some patience. So we're going to continue with the list of registered debaters. Denis Bećirović. Here you go, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23192	Thank you. 63 I want to start my discussion with the thesis that the BiH budget story is not a story of any political points. We have finished local elections, general elections aren't even in sight, they're not in this year. And I think if we just were to simulate it in such a way as if it were a matter of political points so that it wouldn't be good. I think this is a slightly more important issue than any and any political point, and I would even say that this is one of the breaking issues that shows which direction the BiH state should go and which direction it is headed. I must say, as an opposition SDP MP, I generally expected this budget to try to at least train the BiH state to be ready to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I was expecting a European budget. I must say that the Budget that came from the BiH presidency is not a happy solution either, but I viewed it as a minimum of all minimums. Unfortunately, here we are witnessing today that and that is not enough and that is why I tend to say here that if this is adopted, what some say today they have most, that it will be the defeat of European BiH and the victory of anti-European BiH. I especially want to say that this return story is, in my opinion, quite an irresponsible story. It is one of the strategic issues of the BiH state. However, in such a way he is not approached and what we see is not an expression of political responsibility, I would rather say that it is the expression of a political Phariseeism. When it comes to amendments, and I delivered them to 18, I wouldn't explain it in detail. So they were delivered, but I would remind you of some amendments. For example, the Amendment I, which refers to the reduction in gross payments and fees for 2009 amounting to 32,655,486 marks, so by one quarter of the planned increase, the reduction of staff costs, the reduction of travel costs by 1,853,000, the reduction of costs for the amount of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's item of 604,478 KM, the reduction of funds for the presidency, for the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, etc. I have proposed in the amendments that funds be increased, among other things, and the work of the Directorate for European Integration, although it is currently in a state of state, but I believe, given the fact that we have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that we have adopted a resolution on the acceleration of BiH's EU accession process, as well as all those tasks that the Directorate objectively has in front of it, that it is necessary to increase the funds by 1,160,000 KM. I also proposed a certain increase in funds for the preservation of national monuments in BiH, the Return Fund, etc. However, I would like to point out three amendments in particular. Namely, I suggest that Amendment XIII introduce a new item for the fund, from which talented students and students would be financed. Because of the economic crisis that is increasingly affecting BiH, I think it is necessary to show a certain degree of responsibility for the future, first of all, of a young generation, and I suggest that we separate 7 million KM for this purpose for the first time in 2009. If we need to further factor and explain, so if we accept this amendment if we give each student or student who is gifted 200 marks per month, that would be 35,000 students. Or Amendment XIV. Here, some of them were talking about recession. Here, I suggest you accept this review amendment. So, Amendment XIV introduces a new item -- a programme to help the most vulnerable pensioners in BiH. For this item, I have envisioned the separation of 10 million marks in the budget, and I think the adoption of this amendment would show one social sensitivity for the most unprotected category in this country, and these are certainly pensioners. When I say this 64, nobody's gonna realize this is some kind of demagogy, since there's no direct transmission. God Bog there should be one or two sentences in some newspaper about all this, but I now think that as MPs here, so when we discuss that indeed in this year, which is going to be the year of the economic crisis would show a single human and solidarity gesture if we accepted an amendment like this. I propose an amendment to XV to introduce a new item -- a programme to finance the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises in BiH worth 22 million KM. I propose an amendment to XVI to introduce a new sentence -- to help de-certified BiH police officers of 430,000 KM. As far as this amendment is concerned, I would like to say that if the BiH state is unable to guarantee, it has provided basic human rights for de-certified police officers, then it must be prepared at least in the Budget to provide minimum funds for the survival of these people and their families. I would like to propose by amendment XVIi for the second time to separate one symbolic help figure for the construction of Srdjan Aleksic's monument in Trebinj. As we have already adopted the initiative that supported this, I think it should be supported in a clear way in Budžet, given that Srđan Aleksić is one of the symbols of the fight against brotherhood in BiH. And finally, I propose that Amendment XVIII introduce a new item that would show a serious intention to implement a conclusion from a conference held on the International Anti-Corruption Day in Sarajevo on 11 December 2008. I remind you that the conclusions at the conference were adopted in co-ordination between Transparency International and MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I also note that BiH is no longer a strategy for fighting corruption and organised crime. She expired in 2009. We don't have a new strategy in the parliamentary procedure to discuss, we don't have bodies as proposed here to deal with this issue and we don't have the means to... Since MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly, together with this NGO, have adopted conclusions, I think it would be logical to target some funds in this direction in order to finally start things off as a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23193	Two replicas, Slavko Jovičić and Velimir Jukić, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23194	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the replica of one part of Mr Bećirović's exposure. Not all of us MPs supported the report the way you presented it here. But in order not to be incomprehensible, we're barging corruption, although I don't like that term because it's sweet, we're barging against thieves and the mob. But in the way this organised conference is, it was first unserious, because it is the very organisation that is doing the most damage to BiH, because I have publicly asked them what were their criteria to say BiH is in 101st place by corruption?- I'm sorry. That's when I said we were at 12. Here, I'll correct now, we're at 6. Says the World Bank and the Monetary Fund. Well, the World Bank and the Monetary Fund are in Washington, so it's in the U.S. recession. It is precisely 65 who, with their own information, without any indication, do enormous damage to this country because they prevent foreign investors from coming here. So we didn't all support it, and we're not going to support the reports from a conference like that, because they're being timed just to get them to do the promotion. And when I asked them who this NGO is, if they have their membership, it's, say, one board director, six of them are gathered together, funded by foreigners, fellows and various scum, and then they present it to us here, as is the official view. It's not officially my position, it could be theirs. And you support them, I don't dispute it, but since I've been invited to that presentation and their affirmation, I'll never support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23195	So, since the three o'clock break, there's nothing. Next replica Velimir Jukić. I ask you, when you apply, sign up on time, not when we agree on some dynamics, break, this, that, then Jerko comes and as usual the last one, Adem Huskić, etc. Here you go, Mr. Jukić. Sign up on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23196	I welcome all present. I'm going to do a very short, more quote correction than a replica. Mr Bećirović made one mistake in explaining his amendment. In fact, he misrepresented, or divided, certain figures. So, I mean, but I'm going to comment on this idea a little bit, and I like the idea very much, and I think the amendment is good, and unfortunately, I don't think there's any possibility right now, or at least I'm estimating it, and the mood to accept this amendment is about scholarship students. And I think that perhaps when creating the next budget, for the next year, it should be very serious and in time start a certain and lobbying for something like this, because I think it's really time for BiH to and in this way, meaning by forming a college scholarship fund, it shows its commitment to education, especially through a programme to help those who are talented, who deserve it. And this could be about a fund that would provide about three thousand of these scholarships, which may be for BiH and some number that is not too big or too small and these scholarships would be, I don't know, about two hundred marks, which may be realistic, given the overall social economic situation in BiH. So here was the correction of the allegations and the support of this once-thinking and the idea of a fund forming at BiH level.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23197	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23198	I told my colleague that a small slip was made, but I call on my colleague that there is no reason why we should not accept this amendment today and... that this idea becomes a reality. However, I have responded to Mr. Jovičić's reply to say that it is not right that without a representative of an NGO we speak such difficult words about this NGO's 66th organization. It's not true that people speak without any indication, they have very clear indicators. It is not a domestic but international NGO, so it would be good if when we talk about it we try to talk about it with arguments rather than by the method of discrediting all those who think differently than the individual political parties that are in power.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23199	We're going back to the discussion report. I have another registered Sadik Ahmetović, Jerk Ivanković, Vinko Zorić here and I have Mr Lozančić registered and if anyone else has ambition to sign up to sign up right now, that we know how to plan. Let's take the turn, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23200	Mr. Chairman, I've been thinking about whether or not to discuss it, but here I'm going to cut my discussion short, given that after that, there will also be replicas that sometimes go and so far that insult me personally and perhaps even the population from which I come, and therefore I'm just going to realize that it's not worth convincing anyone to do anything if they have an autistic approach. Autism is a state... or cannot be changed; a disease can sometimes be cured, autism can not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23201	Jerko Lijanović Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23202	Dear President, I wish you successful work in the next chairman's term, I hope good cooperation. My colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will try not to repeat myself so as not to waste any more time, but I will say something about the alibis that appeared here in the context that BiH has no institution to have more money, about the alibis that can no longer be provided because there are no more money, and I will say something about my amendment. If we look at the EU and the standards that we are seeking, which we want to take over, if we look at its competences and its constitutional or contractual arrangements and look at BiH, then we can see that BiH has far more competence than the lower levels of government, than the EU has powers at lower levels of government within the EU. And when we look at the EU budget, with such small powers as it has, then we can see that the structure of that budget is approximately 40% for development, mainly for agriculture incentives, and the rest concerns administration and other needs. And when we look at the structure of the BiH Budget, then we see that there is almost nothing for development. My wish and goal is to point out that in BiH, too, we should find ways to enter development items, especially for agriculture in the most difficult situation compared to the rest of the economy. 67 The thesis that we do not have money, that money cannot be secured, but if we look at our tax policy and the announced excise tax law that we will soon get here, then we can see that we have the least luxury tax in BiH and that there are not hundreds of millions of marks but billions of accumulated that should be taken and used for development so that we can hire our people, process our country, fill our health and pension funds. For this reason, I expect here also this excise tax law soon in Parliament and that, in accordance with it, we can extend this budget, because it will bring new funds, or if it is not already intended for a significant part of the funds to come in order to build it up in the preparation phase, or we can supplement it in the phase of parliamentary consideration. When we look at almost the whole world, then we see that the financial crisis affects everyone, so it will hit BiH and already hit it well. And unfortunately, almost no budget, so this BiH has no answer to that question either. The consequences will be inconclusive in the next year, two, three days, because the crisis will certainly take a long time, especially with us if we ignore it in this way so that we do not intervene from the budget to any area, while far more developed countries than us, where far more developed economies, hundreds of millions of euros or dollars are allocated to interventions to improve the situation and to keep jobs. Obviously, such a budget as many decisions before the Council of Ministers goes particularly in favour of neighbouring countries, Serbia and Croatia, because if we have a weaker economy in BiH then the deficit will be far higher and the placement of goods from neighbouring countries will be much easier here, as domestic competition will not be able to oppose it. The deficit, which last year runs slightly above the 9 billion marks that are on the rise, practically refers to neighbours almost 30%, in fact even more than 30% of the deficit, and we used to be in the common state and we had a surplus like BiH in exports. The Council of Ministers ignored the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production in the last two years, ignoring the conclusion of this home two years ago, which was adopted with 36 votes "for" and only one vote "against" that it was defined that we should tax the luxury, and today after two years, we still have not yet realised this conclusion on the elimination of customs duties on certain agricultural products in the seventh month of last year, and thus says the same in favour of favouring goods from neighbouring countries and thus cutting funds in the BiH Budget. The 500m-mark amendment I have submitted to promote agriculture is not enough for our agriculture, as neighbours have adopted budgets and singled out for agriculture individually over a billion KM, and the EU has also adopted a budget in which over 100 billion KM or over 50m euros are foreseen for incentives. We have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, we have CEFTA with our neighbours and our agriculture is fully exposed to competition from those countries. And for our agriculture, it would also take billions, not millions, to save it from further destruction, at least at this level and try to slowly recover it. We'll have inexplicable consequences in the long run if we don't save our agriculture. We are going towards EU membership, to candidate status when we will have the opportunity to access EU pre-accession funds, when we will be able to withdraw significant funds from these funds, but only if we have production, because these funds can be taken by those who have production. We will probably remain in this relationship – we are already a good part, and we will end it in the next two years – without production and then we will be severely damaged, because we will have no basis for withdrawing funds from the EU budget. When we become an EU member, we will also have the right to withdraw funds from the EU from over 100 billion marks, but only if we have production. If we continue on this path, we won't have production, and then we won't be able to withdraw those funds that are intended for us, but they'll be withdrawn by some other countries, and then we'll go buy food in those other countries. We'll have our country unworked, our people unemployed, and we'll be a large importer of expensive food from imports, instead of creating assumptions that we'll take money from the EU that's intended for us, we'll process our country, we'll hire our people, we'll secure funds in our funds and we'll be food exporters. For this reason, I think it is good to adopt this amendment, to provide for the amendment in the excise duty law that we expect soon to be here in Parliament, and to try to correct something that has practically been done in the wrong direction for 10 years, to destroy production rather than support it. If this amendment were adopted, I will support this budget, although I have on other parts of certain remarks, but I think they are negligible in relation to this part. If this amendment is not adopted, I will not be able to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23203	We still have Vinko Zorić, but we have two more reported not having this technical opportunity for you to see on the screen, so Mr. Lozančić and Mr. Živković. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23204	Thank you. I'll be, I believe, much shorter than my predecessors. Before the break, I answered when we agreed on how to work, or when we wanted to give some guidance to the Finance Committee. And I'm going to say something about the Committee's report and then I'm going to say something about the amendments. So, Amendment XII. Who was adopted? Surely there is no one... of the approved amendment's proposings, and that proposed that amendment. I suggested the second part of the amendment, and I would really like it because I would never propose the first part of the amendment to separate those two. Namely, my present-day parliamentary question is in great collegiation with the first part of amandman XII.. And I'm really asking all the services, and let this be a part of it to separate these two amendments, so that amandman XII.. It will be up to 97 million 533, etc., and Amendment XIII. The second part, therefore, is in the same individual table when it comes to these 250 thousand for the Gender Equality Agency. That's one thing. The other thing is that there has been a lot of talk here about amendments and is trying to convince each other that there should be an argument that should not be supported by the BiH Budget. I'll just look back at one amendment, maybe two. The amendment of Denis Bećirović, also mentioned by counterpart Jukić, would be acceptable to me if the amendment for advanced students refers to us transferring it to the levels that are responsible for it. In no way, under the conditions that this is derived from the budget... is set out directly, because they have institutions that are competent for education... as well as for stimulation. 69 This amendment that Mr. Jerko is talking about, this is the second one I'm going to look back on, it's really too big. I said to Jerki today, "Why don't you raise a billion when you're doing so?" I mean, that's funny, but I think we could go with the incentives of agriculture, and that's other than social and return, which I've been interested in today a little bit more through the parliamentary question, so maybe agriculture could have been stimulated by 20, 50 million marks, and not go straight with the drastic over 50% of the current budget to achieve some effect and get up. If we propose 500 million marks at once, everyone knows it's impossible and only two such amendments are enough. Lucky they don't come from big clubs so they don't block the entire budget. What I'm going to say at the end of the day is that as a representative of the Mixed Club, I'm going to say here that our club is probably going to get mixed up on this budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23205	It's a little Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I, like many others, will begin this exhibition with one already learned finding that I did not intend to discuss this subject today, but here after all the debates I decided to make my modest contribution. I've decided for the simple reason that I think many of the debaters have discussed it in a way, so I suggested an amendment but I know it won't pass, but let it be heard that I suggested it. I think this is the way it's supposed to be. I know it won't be accepted either, but some people hear me thinking so. I don't think this is the way it's supposed to be, but I know it won't be accepted, but let it be heard that I don't think it's the right thing to do. So in that tone, I also make my humble contribution through certain clarifications and through certain assessments, assessments, which motivated me to report, not thinking I'd make a big contribution, but honestly thinking or trying to get us back to the point. So we can propose and bid, each with its political commitment here, I think we should have measures. Today, we are on several occasions in one way or another, which is affirmatively what the Minister of Finance and the Treasury otherwise questioned, so he accepted something, so as a minister, he suggested something, so as a minister, it's good or bad, it doesn't matter. I would like to remind you of constitutional provisions that I am not happy about, because there is probably no country in the world where there is a similar provision that says for the BiH Presidency that it is responsible for proposing, at the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, the annual budget of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, our finance and vault minister, the esteemed Mr Dragan Vrankić, is not in charge of proposing the budget, nor of determining, nor of anything, the Council of Ministers, either, it only recommends something to our BiH presidency that should look like the BiH Budget. And the Bureau, in accordance with its constitutional powers, is solely competent to propose and explain to us here what it proposes. They did not normally find it appropriate to do so, and then we found ourselves in trouble – what they thought when they proposed. And then everyone interpreted in their own way what they thought, what they wanted, each trying to bring it down to some kind of mill of political option that it belonged to, trying to show it affirmatively. 70 We heard, I must say, a lot of ugly grades talking about the 'BiH Budget' which is not called, here I am again using an incorrect name for it, which is called 'The Budget of BiH Institutions and External Obligations of BiH'. I'd be happier if we had a BiH budget, just like that, and then we'd be... I would be happier if BiH had much more power than it has today. That we have opportunities and capacity to influence more significantly in this parliament what BiH's fiscal revenues will be and what BiH's fiscal frameworks will be, and then what will be BiH's fiscal expenditures. We've passed laws, each again for our reasons, and the fiscal council, and then, respecting that everyone has their reasons and their political motives to accuse some of them because they're being negotiated, we've entered the absurde, we're a country otherwise absurde, I mean it's nothing new. So in this country it's impossible to make a deal and about anything, meaning small, not big, this is a big question. And then when someone makes some kind of deal, and he's called "Prudski," "Sprudski," whatever you call him, it's the only deal in this country that exists and everyone attacks him and I don't know what you're attacking him. It's the only agreement there is, it's not perfect, it's little for this country, it's little for the citizens of this country to expect, but it's the only one. And there are a hundred who try to challenge him. He didn't say what this budget would be like. Unlike those of us who passed the Fiscal Council Act, those who sat in Prud did not pass that law. They just said they support the position of the Fiscal Council established by the law that we have brought here. The Honorable Minister Vrankić, who is a member of the Fiscal Council, is using his right to express his political and professional will within the Fiscal Council against those proposals that were established there, but as a legalist, as someone who respected the law passed by this Parliamentary Assembly, accepted that this was the fiscal council of the state's institutions authorised to establish the fiscal framework. And I don't know what it's like to accept this or that proposal, it's completely irrelevant what it is, what it is, the victory of anti-European BiH. Listen, please, nice! Now I need to think. Whatever I accept, I don't know, I don't know what the writer was going to say, putting myself in anti-European BiH, that this is the victory of BiH's opponent. Perhaps some are used to making BiH their own, thinking that BiH's definition is just what they think, that it's enough to call themselves this many percent for BiH, so they think it's enough to label Bosnian-Herzegovic patriotism, patriotism and, I don't know, what else. We must respect the fact that each of us in this House has the right, without such assessments and labels, freely, with our own will motivated by both our principles and political and human, to cultivate decisions. And let's not, let's try to shut down from our vocabulary, from a rhetorical term like that. They do not contribute to what BiH needs most. BiH, exiles, returnees, developed defenders, pensioners, unemployed and all others need a policy that is ready to agree, seek solutions and find the best solutions, possible solutions, not impossible. I'd be happy, but I don't want to get into the irrational sphere, if I could, so I didn't propose any amendments, I don't have a solution, I would suggest an amendment to the 5 billion income increase, I just don't know where. So, next, I would suggest expenditure according to that, but realistic sources. There's a lot of things. The returnees, because there's a lot of talk about them, and last time I reacted to it, I was thinking today if I wanted to, but I want to do it again today, yesterday, five years ago, a million, the 500 billion promised meant nothing to them no matter how much it meant to someone. So the promised ones, who will step, I don't know, maybe in a year, in two, in three, in five. And what's good in the sense, especially those who often mention the word hypocrisy, should be a little bit more correct, more consistent in promoting what you stand for. I stand for return, and I was an exile. But I believed that no one would believe that I was in favor of 71 return, if I didn't come back amongst the first. I came back, I did my part, not just talking hollow, I showed that I wanted to come back and no one helped me, no one. And there were many more who tried all kinds of ways to make my life worse and from the parties of those who are talking about coming back today, they're pushing for a comeback. So that's reality. And last time I said, it takes a lot more political will, honest political will to make life easier for the returnees. I am convinced that today 35 million, today adopted, adopted and already tomorrow the realization of that 35 million means a lot more than the promised 350 million for next year. I wish we could say today that it's 350 million, I'd be much happier than many of you, but I don't know where. If anyone has a recipe, a real recipe that can get most of it today, I don't know what we'll get if we don't adopt this budget today. So, all I know is that we'll probably adopt it sometime, but that means that even 300 thousand marks won't be realised in return programmes until the moment this budget is adopted. And one more thing to say. When it comes to returnees, I concluded from the debate that it's more important who distributes the money than what is the amount. That's how I figured it out. If I'm wrong about that, I apologize, but I've concluded that that's the case, and that's the problem. It is important for returnees to come to and be used for their needs and to be properly deployed and to reach them as soon as possible without obstructions. Why isn't there a realisation going on? I'm surprised, I have to say, both the minister and his deputy why they don't openly say why it's going slowly. It's not them, I have to say right away, so I'm surprised they don't say. In many municipalities there are many ways of obstructing the implementation of these projects. So that's a fact. And I have to say, if someone didn't misread me, there are all the political options sitting here in this House, which are here and the opposition and the positions that are obstructing, someone more someone less, everyone. So, let's not accuse the Minister or the Deputy, or the Return Fund because the slow realisation of these funds is going. It is up to us and to our general honesty that we must, even here, promote in this highest legislative body. So I'm calling on all of us and all of you, aware of the fact that this isn't the most ideal project proposal,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23207	Patience to listen, please. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23208	: that this is not the most ideal draft budget. Some have mentioned that there's a proposal, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, six, some threes, so I said in a joke at this table this is the draft law on the Two Budget, I think we can go to that point, but this is the draft budget law the only one we have in the procedure and we have a chance to adopt today and we have a chance to refuse. The third option doesn't exist today. I must say, with all the dissatisfaction of some of the work of our Finance and Budget Committee, I would like to commend them for just one fact, which they have shown the ability to sit, talk and negotiate. And they made a deal. All those against it, I call on them to make a deal. So if it's possible better than this, I'm in. So, I'll support every 72 options, every budget solution that will lead to the fact that we have a budget today, aware that the budget that we're going to implement in two, three, or, I don't know, how many months, will not be a budget, but will be some kind of financial plan for the next few months, financing BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23209	We have a report, for replica, Jerko Ivanković. We have, therefore, more discussion, Živković and Minister Halilović signed up. Here you go, Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23210	Thank you. I'll just brief my colleagues, Zorić. I agree with him that a billion marks for agriculture should have been proposed, because the neighbors are giving up more than a billion, and not only this year but for the past 10 years, but I've been very modest, and I said let's start with a number that can change something, and to single out 20 or 30 million is basically throwing and that money, because there's nothing we can do about it. If we were to allocate 500 million to a budget that is somewhere around a billion and five hundred and more, it would again be about 25% of the budget and would be 15% less than the EU stands out. So this is something to start with. And also to my colleague Lozančić, who referred to the need to have a measure when proposing amendments, that there is no effect in fact proposing something that will not be adopted, I agree with the measure, we just need to analyse the measure on both sides. So our 500 thousand people in BiH live off agriculture. By not passing laws and passing certain laws, we have brought these people past our own estate that they must be tenants, because they cannot live from their work, from the products they produce and have no one to sell them to. And at the same time last year, 9 billion marks were taken from the pockets of the citizens of our country and donated to the pockets of the citizens of another country. That's two thousand and some marks on every citizen of this country. I think there should be a measure that is inappropriate in this way to impoverish our citizens, and in fact because of the lack of bearing and the adoption of what is not right, we have a consequence of that condition. I believe that the minister is competent and that he can implement and what I'm talking about, secure the money without any problems, that he's aware and that he needs to do it, but basically politics, actually the ruling parties have to give the green light, actually have to stand behind such a project to move in that direction, i.e.. to change the existing direction we were going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23211	We have a registered debater, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23212	Thank you, Chairman. 73 Ladies and gentlemen, the SNSD is not satisfied with the proposed budget and do not think that we are voting dearly for this budget, because we believe it is further centralizing this state, to strengthen the institutions at the expense of the entities. The very fact that our member of the Bureau was too loud for us was enough reason not to accept this budget the way it was conceived. We believe that there is enough space to be reduced in certain items. Those items are at the expense of the Department of Defense. We believe that the reduction in the number of forces that are under the Armed Forces Service Act should be reduced in order to further reduce this item. We believe that the census item should be bigger, but until the census laws are passed, we are not prepared to add money to this item from the RS entity. When we are sure that the census law will be passed in this country and when we see how much funding is needed to carry out a quality census, we will ask the SNSD to fix the item. For that reason, this is a matter of compromise and agreement. The budget is the only possible solution we can have here today. So don't let anyone think we're happy with this budget. On the other hand, we believe this budget allows BiH and its institutions to function without questioning the entity's fiscal sustainability. At the same time, Budget was brought into line with the Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH and reflects the agreement reached by entities. I particularly highlight the word agreement, as it has been said from a discussion that this is how the conceived budget strengthens RS, while BiH is collapsing. This was agreed by the entities, no RS itself, but by the Federation of BiH, who is aware that by a completely different proposal, i.e. By increasing the BiH budget, it puts fiscal sustainability in place and the Federation of BiH entity. So this is the kind of story we've heard about BiH's collapse in the last 15 years, but every year this country has had its Budget and I hope it will be this year. The SNSD has made its contribution to the Commission by making an amendment. For us, the report that came from the Commission is acceptable. And the technical amendment, which we are defending today, only corrects the ambiguities that concern the percentage and registration of funds from the GSM license, and it practically returns this budget literally within the Fiscal Council. I believe the minister will also determine on this amendment, because I believe he is in line with that agreement we had. Of course, I also want to say that we are not going to vote for all amendments here that are present, and I cannot guarantee that if they pass the amendments in the second round, no one will support those amendments in the second round of voting, so I warn in advance that we are all very serious when we vote on the amendments. And finally, the conclusion proposed by the SDA. We believe that such a concise conclusion in one part prejudges solutions concerning the total amount of funds and the timing of its execution. We are not against the conclusion but we believe that it should be defined differently, that it is: that it is in charge of the Council of Ministers to launch activities to find a favourable loan or to issue bonds for the purpose of financing returns of refugees and displaced persons in accordance with the Return Programme 2009-2014. a year, in the next 90 days. He literally recaptures that agreement we had and accordingly corrects the conclusion that the SDA has proposed. Thank you. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23213	And here, I still have a business obligation. Here you go, Mr. Minister Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23214	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I will not speak for long, just to say a few notes, because in more discussions the Ministry has been touched, its activity, the problem of returning, etc. Of course, I don't want to politicise this issue precisely because of its importance, and I'm not going to look back at this politics that was present in certain discussions, but I just want to point out a few facts. The problem of returning is a serious issue in BiH. We're all aware that in the past war, a tectonic disorder occurred, that 2.2 million people were moved from their homes. That over a million people were returned. That out of 450,000 destroyed houses and homes, 320,000 were restored, thanks primarily to the international community. But we've got problems here, too. You see, there's a question of spending, transparency, etc. Now it's stopped. Now these problems and questions are our responsibility. Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, as you all know, is unequivocal. It's our duty to fulfill it. The Human Rights and Refugee Ministry has registered 47,000 families or 153,000 people who want to return to their homes. This country is bound to secure that, that means. They're at least a billion marks. After all these talks, projections, etc., everyone's talking about doing it, I don't know, it was until 2011 until 2014 etc. I do not prejudge the solution, but I merely point to the seriousness of the problems we face and that we need to talk seriously and responsibly about them. The Ministry is doing everything in its power. Moves have been made seriously. You know well how Parliament once adopted a million or two marks a year, now the shift has been made forward. First of all, last year was more than eight years in total. But you have to keep going. It's not enough against this number that's been talked about how many people are waiting. We even have 80,000 people abroad who have unregulated their status. They'll come tomorrow asking to be secured. The ministry has done a revised return strategy that includes other problems to be addressed, not just a mere return, but a sustainability of return, health, social issues, compensation for the damage that has never been initiated before. It's an obligation, too, from Dayton. And it'll have to be dealt with eventually. And to put it short, so the Ministry did it in agreement with entity leadership, the ministries responsible, that strategy. She submitted to the procedure three months ago. It agreed with 70 international organisations involved, etc. and it is now waiting for the Council of Ministers and will then come to Parliament which will then be able to plead. We have also done appropriate documents, a review of the implementation of programming tasks, but also the realization of Budgets. There were conversations here, etc. If they've been spent, if the funds haven't been spent and so on. I say responsibly that every dinar is deployed and it is in the function of implementation. The problem is the structure that needs to be implemented. You know, it's not up to us, there's so-called. The return committee. It determines the purposes, quotas, etc. This year, 21 million and a half marks were set for individual construction, 8 million for the reconstruction of a joint apartment. Here, these days we were in 75 Mostar where it was paid in November 1,325,000 for these buildings in Shantić, etc. In the woodwork, in Srebrenica, the exact same situation. But what's the problem here? The problem is procedures. We tried that and graphically here to show. It is, in fact, that the framework and dynamic plan for the implementation of joint returns, financed through the Return Fund, lasts 300 days or 10 months at the ideal any time, if the law wants to be respected. 22 to 23 instances are here in the meantime. Everything else is illegal. And here you see, I can and will be brief, the selection procedures of the contractor project in accordance with the Public Procurement Act lasts for 80 days. The submission of an objection, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, for 15 days. Real time needed to design and perform works 110 days. The adopted procedures for the implementation of 95 days, not counting complaints. Let me say, also look back, the loan project is also going on, e.g. CEPT EU Development Bank – of 14 million with the participation of BiH 8 million, but it lasts three years, also because of these procedures. But this year we got 800 apartments built the same. Over 15 million were spent this year in different ways. So we should work together. Parliament has jurisdiction here, above all, to make it possible for certain simplifications of these procedures to make things more efficient, faster, etc. And one more thing to say is that this question, too, I don't want to politicize it, locate the funds, whether it's the Ministry or the Return Fund, I explain, it's not clear to many. In fact, this ministry works through the main three institutions. It is a return committee made up of a minister and a deputy, the chairman of the commission, entity ministers since three members from all three nations. It is decided practically by consensus on each purpose. Then, the Ministry is here to serve, plan, propose etc. The Fund is financially realising the funds. But why is it important for the funds to be in the Ministry? Because it combines funds with other ministries if located in it. So this year, we got an additional merger, another 8 million with entities, and they also exist with other institutions. And that's the thing, and it's not about whether a minister or someone else is going to have a monopoly or, I don't know, this, that, decision-making or something. So I just want to stress the seriousness of the problem, the need to really look at this objectively, not wanting to politicise in any way and to overcome reason, indeed, in the care of this serious political, social and state problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23215	Here, this is how we practically finished the debate. Here, they said those who wanted to talk. We have a kind of initiative, or one thought, that after the debate on the Budget agenda, we should also hold a vote. But in order for us to do that, I have to ask Dom if we're up for it after the break. [[of course, we'll take a break]] We've processed the records and Budget. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go. 76 _________(?) ...to sit down and make a deal with the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23219	No microphone 77 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23220	Here, Mr. Živković has a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23221	Simply because of, perhaps, simpler work and to get to the ultimate goal, since we have a large number of amendments and that the chairman can decide the way these amendments will be proposed, to go first with the amendment proposed by the SNSD Club, because it involves major amendments to the members. That would make sense if we then gave up all the other amendments. Maybe some colleagues will withdraw the amendments afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23222	So, if I understood correctly, you could have suggested that I would have done it. But I'm on my way, and here I go. So let's be clear about the amendments that I've put in order here. Unfortunately, if I had consulted earlier, I might have. But here, I ask you to prepare for a statement on the amendments of the promoters Joza Križanović and Zlatko Lagumdžija. Do you have them in front of you? Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Are you looking for a repeat vote? So say, don't say you're not registered, just looking, intervene. So, there's a repeat vote. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on amandman I. Križanović and Lagumdžija. Vote now! 15 “for, ” 19“ against. ” There's no general majority. We're going to Amendment II. the same proposings. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Also, there's no general majority, it's not adopted. We're going to Amendment III. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 78 Also, and amandman III.. There's no general majority and it's not adopted. We move on to Amendment IV. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment IV. It also has no general majority and has not been adopted. We move to a statement on amandman v. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment V also does not have a general majority and is not adopted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vi. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment VI. It also has no general majority and has not been adopted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vii.. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment VII. It also has no general majority and has not been adopted. We move to the Declaration on amandman vi. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment VIII has no general majority and is not adopted. We're moving on to a statement on amandman IX.. Prepare to vote. Vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23225	If it's an intervention, it's at VIII. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23226	Eight, eight. I'm sorry, please. Eight, eight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23227	Eight repeats.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23228	We repeat on eight, Amendment VIII. 18 “against, ” 16“ for. ” So, Amendment VIII. has no general majority and is not adopted. We're moving on to a statement on amandman IX.. Prepare to vote. Vote now, Amendment IX. Amendment IX. has no general majority and is not adopted. Please prepare for the declaration of Amendment X. Vote now! Amendment X does not have a general majority and is not adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XI.. Vote now! Please help me work, I can't work, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23229	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23230	Mr. Lagumdžija, you'll get everything later, a little patience, please, and you can take a walk, and then later. So, Amendment XI. He didn't get the general majority and he wasn't adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XII.. Vote now! Amendment XII. has no general majority and is not adopted. Please prepare to vote on amandman XIII..
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23231	Respect the Rules of Procedure. We requested an intervention to repeat the vote for Amendment XI. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23232	I'd like some order and patience and allow me to work. Thus, the SDP Club, or Mr Križanović, expressed doubts about the vote on amandman XI.. We return, of course, gentlemen, to the vote again. Please prepare for the re-election on amandman XI.. Vote now! So 20 votes "against" and 17 "for". Amendment XI. has no general majority and is not adopted. Here, I allow you if you have any more interventions, documents, objections, etc., here you go. If there isn't, let's move on. We now declare the amandman to XIII.. Please prepare to vote. Vote now, Amendment XIII. With 17 votes "yes", 18 "against", Amendment XIII. has no general majority and is not adopted. Please prepare to vote on amandman XIV.. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment XIV. 18 "against," 17 "for," has no general majority and has not been adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XV.. Vote now! Amendment XV. 18 “against, ” 16 “for, ” has no general majority, has not been adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman Xvi.. Vote now! Amendment XVI. 19 “against, ” 16“ for, ” has no general majority, and has not been adopted. Please prepare for the vote on amandman XVII.. Vote now! Amendment XVII. MPs Križanović and Lagumdžija: 18 votes "against", 16 votes "for", no general majority and no adoption. The next amendments that I remind myself of are amendments from MP Denis Bećirović. Please prepare them. We declare the amendments to Denis Bećirović. Amendment I. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 18 "against", 14 "for", there is no general majority – amandman I. has not been adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman II.. Denis Bećirović. 81 Vote now! 18 "against", 14 "for", there is no general majority – amandman II.. It wasn't adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman III.. Denis Bećirović. Vote now! 18 "against", 15 "for", there is no general majority – amandman III.. Denis Bećirović was not adopted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman iv.e. Denis Bećirović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 "against", 14 "for" – and amandman iv.e. has no general majority and is not adopted. Prepare to declare amandman v. glasati now! Amendment v. Denis Bećirović – 17 "against", 15 "for". He doesn't have a general majority and he's not adopted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman vi. Denis Bećirović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 "against", 14 "for", there is also no general majority – no amendment VI has been adopted. Denis Bećirović." Prepare to make a statement on amandman vii.. Vote now! 18 "against", 13 "for" – there is no general majority, it is not adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman vi. Vote now! With 18 'against', 15 'for', no general majority, amandman vi. Denis Bećirović was not adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman IX.. Vote now! 18 "against", 14 "for" has no general majority – not adopted. Prepare to make a statement about Amendment X. Vote now! 18 "against", 14 "for", has no general majority – Amendment X. has not been adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XI.. Vote now! 16 "against", 15 "for", there is no general majority – Amendment XI. It wasn't adopted. 82 We move to the Declaration of amandman XII.. Vote now! 18 ‘against’, 15 ‘for’, Amendment XII. There is no general majority – it is not adopted. Prepare to declare amandman XIII.. Vote now! 17 ‘against’, 15 ‘for’, Amendment XIII. There is no general majority – it is not adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XIV.. Vote now! 18 ‘against’, 15 ‘for’ – Amendment XIV. It wasn't adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XV.. Vote now! 17 ‘against’, 16 ‘for’ – Amendment XV. It wasn't adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman Xvi.. Vote now! 18 ‘against’, 16 ‘for’ – amandman Xvi.. He didn't get the general majority and he wasn't adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XVII.. Vote now! 18 "against", 14 "for" has no general majority – not adopted. Prepare to make a statement on amandman XVIII.. Vote now! 18 ‘against’, 14 ‘for’, so neither this amandman XVIII.. He didn't get the general majority and he wasn't adopted. And in this way, we are exhausted, or declared to be aware of all amendments by Members of the Parliament of Bećirović. We move on to statements on amendments by MP Sefer Halilović. So, amandman I.. moliti prepare for the vote. Vote now! Sefer Halilović, amandman I. 19 "against", 10 "for", there is no general majority – amandman I. has not been adopted. We move on to the Declaration on amandman II.. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 83 18 "against", nine "for", has no general majority – amandman II.. Sefer Halilović was not adopted. Please prepare to vote on amandman III.. Sefer Halilović. Vote now! 17 "against", 14 "for", there is no general majority – amandman III.. Sefer Halilović was not adopted. Prepare to make a statement about amandman iv.e as well. Sefer Halilović. Vote now! Amendment IV. Sefer Halilović: 18 "against", 15 "for", has no general majority – not adopted. This is how we have declared all amendments to Sefer Halilović. We have an order of amandman to I. Jerka Ivanković. Amendment I. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 19 votes "against", nine "for" – Amendment I. Jerka Ivanković has no general majority and has not been adopted. We are further moving on to amendments or amendments to the draft law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2009 of the SNSD Parliament Club. So he's shown as an amandman I.. Although he treats multiple members. Therefore, it is practically treated as one amendment after all. Please prepare to make a statement on this amendment. Vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The SNSD amendment. With 19 votes "yes",
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23234	Can I have the vote again, please? 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23235	Here I have an intervention, requesting a repeat vote. Well, I repeat, I've already had one intervention. So, please prepare for the vote. We're voting on amandman I. of the SNSD. Vote now! 21 "for", 15 "against", with one-third of each entity, I find that this amendment of the SNSD has been adopted. This is how we've come to terms with all the amendments we've had, and now we're pleading on the Bill's very proposal for Budget, and then we're going to talk about the conclusions that concern Budget. Please prepare to vote. We're pleading on the Budget. Vote now! 20 “for, ” “against ” 15. According to this result, there's one third of each entity. Any objections to the vote? If he doesn't,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23236	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23237	Well, of course, Mr. Lagumdžija, available. I ask the service always to have the hand whenever Mr. Lagumdžija comes to get the listing, he will always be available to you. Every time you stop by, you'll get a list. So, with 20 "for", 15 "against" and enough entity majority, I find _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So I'm asking if there's an intervention to the vote? Mr. Huskić. Okay, we're repeating the vote. Please, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now! I'm asking you to help me work. 20 "for", 16 "against", and one-third of all MPs from each entity, I conclude that the Bill on Budget was passed. In this way, we have completed what we have agreed to vote, and practically now we have several conclusions. 85 So first we go with this conclusion of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23239	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23240	I can't hear you, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23241	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23242	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23243	Mr. Chairman, We will support each of these conclusions. [[microphone is not enabled]] But in order not to make a mistake, can you, if it's not a problem and if you're in a good mood to bring this together, unite as a single conclusion that will at least know what you've concluded. We'll support each and every one of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23244	What? You're saying that, as four proposals, we're uniting these conclusions in a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23245	To unite, not in a statement, but to objectively unite them in one conclusion, if you have opportunities.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23246	Mr. Lagumdžija, I understand your good intentions. However, the promoters are different and I think your intentions are very good and correct, but unfortunately, I cannot technically go out to meet you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23247	Nothing, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23248	Thank you very much for your good intentions, I think. Here you go, Bakir. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23249	I think it will be united on 26th, now in Banja Luka, that there may be a unification. I think there's going to be a reunion. I don't think he can do it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23250	Thank you. Here, let's go back... Mr. Lagumdžija, let me work. Please be kind. You're a serious man. So, let's get back to the conclusion statement. You have a proposal for a conclusion of the SDA Club. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on the conclusion of the SDA. Vote now! 24 "for", without an entity majority from RS, a third from RS. We'll get along later, we'll let you know. The next is the SNSD's proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. SNSD's conclusion. In addition to 25 "for", two "against", a sufficient majority (one-third of each entity), I conclude that the SNSD Opinion was adopted. We've got the HDZ Club. Please prepare to vote on the HDZ Club's Opinion. Vote now! I konstatirati that the proposal for a HDZ conclusion has been adopted unanimously. And we are left with a proposal for the conclusion of Remzija Kadrić. Please prepare to plead. Vote now! 24 "for", without one-third of RS. Agreeing later, you will be notified. And this is how we, point 3 of the draft law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2009 have been implemented by adopting this law. Moving to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH (Second Reading) 87 At the 38th session, we adopted this bill in our first reading. The committee's report was submitted on 15 January. There were no amendments to the commission phase. The draft law in the proposed text was unanimously adopted. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 4. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH – Proposer: Security Intelligence Commission for the Control of Work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency (Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23255	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Commission has succeeded unanimously in drawing up a practically new report. It's not a new report, it's a report on new aspects. The report shows that we treated that earlier report by remaining three amendments from the previous report, it is written in this new report, and that additional new amendments have been adopted, and all the other amendments in this earlier report are practically proposed to the House to be put out of effect. So when you put this thing to the vote, you should go with that new lead on our new report with these new aspects. Let me say, so we've solved all the politically controversial issues and we've solved all the issues that concern the concept of the law. We worked together with our Food Safety Agency and this is what comes unanimously from this commission. I call upon the House to support practically this purified text that you have received. That's what they're practically going to vote on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23256	Thank you for these very useful remarks and, of course, with the pleasure that we have good news when it comes to this law. Is there any further discussion of this law in the second reading? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act (first reading) 89 The Council of Ministers delivered the law to parliament on 25 December. They asked for an emergency procedure, etc. This request was not accepted. On 14 January, the Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional law, and the Commission responsible for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered its opinion on the principles on 19 January. The Commission supported the principles of this law and, subsequently, the Commission submitted a supplement, so to speak, of this report, because it left out the proposal for a conclusion adopted by the Commission at the session itself. And here we have delivered this supplement to you and I hope there will be no misunderstanding and dilemma regarding this report. Therefore, I note that this conclusion is an integral part of the Commission's opinion. So here's what should have been noted. mehmede, here you go. Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23258	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, you know that this bill was at our last session, and the requirement was to consider it as an emergency procedure. You remember, too, that there were funny comments, but there were also entrenched comments on the Bill's proposal, so it was finally adopted that this law was considered by a reduced procedure, so that the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs as a competent commission, at its meeting, supported the principles unanimously. However, given that we did not get a single explanation of why sugar was only processed, the explanation was that only for sugar was the application submitted, so that we unanimously supported the principles and unanimously concluded that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations was in charge that in collaboration with the External Chamber of Commerce made up a list of products according to the needs of other producers and processors in the area of agriculture, the production of metal and textile industries and the like, which are in need of relief, that is, this conclusion, we wanted to give the possibility to help other products and other branches in this way how this was proposed to help in the case of sugar. Therefore, that is the conclusion, I say, which was unanimously adopted on the Commission. We simply wanted it not to be this proposal to help the sugar company, not to be collateral damage to this, and we gave the opportunity to come out of the second reading simply with a proposal and other products that could be.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23259	Thank you, Mr. Suljkanović. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 90 I've debated this law a little last time, and I have suggested, however, and I've actually made a proposal for the Council of Ministers to deliver an analysis from which we might actually see this problem which is why we're entering this quota system, given that last time, in the past, we've had something similar, and that we've had some problems in realising that decision ourselves. Of course, I knew that the Council of Ministers had no intention of delivering, because the Council of Ministers had no intention at the time, and the minister himself did not attend the session, and here today the competent minister does not attend the session, from which I _____________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? Well, he was up to his agenda, and then when his agenda point came up, he came out. From what I think, it shows enough how serious this law has even entered the procedure, or how serious the minister himself is behind it. But now that doesn't matter, that's what we talked about last time. What I'm interested in is what principle, I'd like the members of the Commission, our commission, to tell me, what is the principle that is acceptable to the Commission? Is that the principle of comprehensiveness, is that the principle that, of course, is not here, is that the principle of transparency? Is there any principle in this law that is acceptable to the Commission, so here she has accepted the principles? So I think there's a much better solution than the proposal for this conclusion. In fact, I believe that we, I don't think, but we have reached certain conclusions before, have referred to the Council of Ministers to resolve this issue. We know how many conclusions we have reached on the bill proposed by colleague Jerko Lijanović and never did the Council of Ministers honor any of our conclusions regarding this area. I'm sure he won't respect this conclusion either, and we'll get another reading. So what do we do when we get to another reading? We accepted the principles, the Council of Ministers did not come out with a supplement, of course the amendment will not be because the law is such a character that it will not be, and then we will refuse or accept it. I think a much happier solution is that the Commission has not accepted the principles of this law and has proposed such a conclusion. It seems to me that, perhaps, that way, she would force these people to push this law to then put it into a package, not go like this alone. Because I'm afraid this way we're not actually going to help anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23262	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23263	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, 91 of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission has spent the past two years trying to impose an economic aid theme. She was trying to make some contact with the Ministry and get him to do something. I personally and proposed "The Law on the Protection of Domestic Production" which we also held here, but the Council of Ministers, until this moment, refused any possibility of doing anything. This small step is a positive step unless some claims, written by the media and some people, are true, are based on possible corruption. I wouldn't want to say in advance whether something like that is true or not. If this is an approach by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry to practically solve the company or group of producers by group in such a way as to create better conditions or the same in BiH as other CEFTA members, then this is the right direction and should also be supported by the Minister and the Council of Ministers to move on quickly. If this law remains lonely in the next period, then we will be confirmed that it was based on corruption, because it did not continue the sequence of events that other producers have, in fact, all those who need to import raw materials that are not in BiH, to bring into the same position as other CEFTA members. So I will support this law in the first reading, expecting according to the Commission's conclusion that something should happen until the second reading, and then we will see whether or not the law refuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23264	Next is Mr. Križanović and Mirko Okolić. Here, depending on the development of the situation, we'll see if we can even see if tonight we can end up voting without going any further tomorrow, depending on us. But here, without ambition, of course, I don't get it wrong that I'm denying law, but here's to trying rationally to take advantage of time and, possibly, to end this all tonight. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to make a contribution to finish this tonight. I would just like to make a few notes that could explain something, about the Commission's position when it was determined according to this bill. I, as a member of that commission, have also expressed great dissatisfaction with asking all of them for members of the Commission in a conversation with the Foreign Trade Ministry to find certain measures and activities to help domestic producers, including in this way, as said here in this bill. Unfortunately, in these two years, we haven't had good communication or cooperation or, of course, the result. As counterpart Novaković said, this can also be interpreted by the Council of Ministers' relationship, particularly by the minister to both this commission and this parliament, when similar initiatives came. I also said then that I am glad that at least one excess example is coming that helps domestic producers. But almost all the members of the Commission were unanimous -- is it possible that out of all the production and types of goods and producers only this problem was found? 92 So we also said that by expressing our dissatisfaction that this bill did not include a number of goods and producers, that this would not turn out to be collateral damage to ours, let's say, observation or relationships, we said let's just support this, but ultimately. So if this conclusion is fulfilled, which is an integral part of this report, we will support another reading. If, indeed, it does not come from the Council of Ministers what we asked for in this conclusion, I, as far as I understand it, and the members of the Commission who attended that session are of the opinion that this law should be rejected in the second reading. Here, that will be my commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23266	Thank you for further information. Niko one prevents the Commission from making live communication with the Council of Ministers until the second reading, and everything we hear here, conveys the same to them there. So, Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23268	Replica, Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23269	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, my replica refers to the presentation of some fellow MPs, in the sense that it should have been dealt with comprehensively in the package. If you let me go back a little bit when the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission has prepared a comprehensive package, of course, that came out of a public debate on this issue, then in this home and also in the House of Peoples later it's multiplied by zero, accusing the Commission, so we know what's going on in that commission there, we know it's a customs lobby, we know this, we know it, we know it, we know it, etc. So, indirectly imputing corruption to the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, which, after six months of really hard work, came up with some solution and a harmonised proposal. However, today, here is when the Council of Ministers tries with a partial solution such as this for only one type of product, meaning that the customs rate for re-promatter is zero and makes it easier for some sugar producers in BiH, as many as there are. Some say one company, some say two etc, but it doesn't matter. But if this is even a millimeter ahead, here, I'm willing to support, of course, with this condition that our commission has set up. But you can't keep respecting yourself, see, it's no good what someone does. So let someone else do something better, here I am ready to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23270	Here you go, Mr. Okolić. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, this law will again, if it falls, be attributed as a negative phenomenon in Parliament, and it will be counted on us that we have passed a little law, or that we are very unserious in the adoption of laws and some other acts that have entered this house. And in fact, it seems to me that this is someone's intentional and persuasion, because this kind of unseriousness in proposing this law by emergency procedure, and then after 126, the stay of the rapporteur in this House until this point of the agenda arrives, and I guess he knew that in a few minutes and this point of the agenda would be up to him and he should have stayed here that maybe some clarifications that I would like to ask for right now could also get and bring my own judgment. This is how it all looks to me like something that's supposed to happen, which is that we don't adopt it, and that someone fulfils their obligation to propose and not to blame him, but to Parliament, because he's taken it very seriously, supposedly so serious a law and such a serious proposal, and he didn't adopt it. And I propose to my fellow Members who are in the Commission that wherever the conditions for Article 108 are met. The Rules of Procedure should also act on it, and that is wherever there is no rapporteur that they do not give it as a gateway to Parliament, but to immediately remove it and not to attend a session at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23272	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23273	Here, in my thoughts on this bill, I join the reserves expressed through the Commission's report, which is to supplement the Commission's reports which have been presented through the form of a conclusion, where they have said what they have said, that I am not reading it, you have all read it. So, I think, too, that what is as a complement to the Commission's report is said through the conclusion that this is the way and way. I think this is a very sensitive issue, a sensitive issue, and that it should be better and more qualitatively explained with stronger arguments. Otherwise, really, those who mentioned it here, here before me today, about this topic, that this could be brought into some kind of relationship or, I don't know, with any corruption, etc. I won't say either. However, in this way it is directly appropriate, and it is very specific to the subject, it is a fact. And the law, as short as it is, is actually kind of more delicate because with very little words and, I don't know, there's a lot of things being said, which is then, very quickly, operated through, I don't know, the benefits given by that law. And I don't think this is a good way, it's not a good approach, and it should really, as it says in this conclusion, and even more studio access to this issue and solve it in a better way. And one more thing, here, when it comes to this particular thing. Neighbouring countries, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, in this area of the economy, mean sugar, production and processing of sugar, have one state that is quite interesting and interesting. These are significant producers, first sugar tails, and then processing and production of sugar and making significant funds in the export of this product. I 94 think BiH still has the potential to invest more and encourage production and sugar tails and then this, which is now as a problem, not to be a problem. This would mean an integrated approach to this problem and then to ensure a really much bigger and more employment and much greater effects, than we are trying to address this issue in this way, because in the long term this, I am convinced, that it is not a way for this particular industry and otherwise it is not a way to solve the problem in general in terms of the release of customs duties on imports of repromaterials, and we generally need to solve this, so all industries are free of these givings and at the same time, for the lack of income, find ways to solve it in another way. And it's a whole and real approach and I expect the Council of Ministers to say it this way, I said it very briefly, but most importantly that we approach these issues and problems in this way. Everything else is that measure for one moment, on one request, etc. So it's neither complete nor what it's going to give those expectations and results and bring everything into an equal position, which is extremely important and important, without guessing anyone and the damage directly to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23274	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Citizenship Act The proposal is proposed by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2008. It's being considered in a regular procedure. A positive opinion by the Constitutional Legal Commission was delivered on 14 January 2009. The Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics is responsible. We got our opinion on January 16th. Most of the votes, the Commission adopted the principles of the proposed law, and unanimously adopted conclusions that form an integral part of the opinion. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on State Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Sadik Bahtić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23277	I'll just have a brief respecting time, very short. You've reached the bill. The law is very simple, has 13 members, fair, fair, recognises state and territorial sovereignty, which is the most important law is in accordance with international law, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, Article I, which confirms continuity and in accordance with the Agreement on Succession. Very clear, brief law. So, one is formed, such as all the states in the environment, ‘State Property Office’, which would make an inventory of all the assets, recorded all the assets, wrote down all the assets, recorded all the assets on the state. First step after that: the state descends to lower levels, entities, counties and cantons, municipalities. That surplus would go on lease, and that income would go to Budget. So you can't share anything until you know the owner. He owns the state. He owns the state. A very short and clear law. Nothing more. Thank you. I call upon the Members to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23278	Thank you. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment (first reading) This law has long been in the process since April of last year. We had it on the agenda on the 28th, 33rd, 36th and 42nd sessions of the House, always with negative opinions of the committee in charge. Home rejected that negative opinion every time. Finally, on 15 January 2009, we received a positive opinion from the Commission stating that the Commission unanimously accepted the principles and forwarded the draft law to the further procedure. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 12. 96 Ad. 12. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23288	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly discuss this information that I have read in detail and that actually dates back to 17.12.2008, otherwise it was sent to the Ministry of Civil Affairs on 10.10. Given that some things have happened... in the legislative segment of education... in some of the cantons, this information is practically now incomplete in the sense that it lacks enough information that is changing. But the fact is that it's written in 10.10 and it actually reflects the state of education. I'd only touch a higher education segment. I believe that the Framework Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, was one basis for the adoption of cantonal laws that were not passed, neither within an adequate time period, and not in line with this framework law, so that there are actually a lot of problems in higher education, indeterminates and dilemmas that arise both by the executives and by, in fact, active participants in the academic community, so sometimes, by doing both work and other work, I am actually asking whether the academic community is responding to this once-in-a-time situation. For this reason, if I wasn’t wasting your time, I was proposing, receiving this information today, three conclusions of which I would: 1. The conclusion is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the congregations of all cantons in the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District Assembly point to the need for timely adoption of their own law in the field of education, in line with framework laws adopted at the state level. In addition to the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, the Framework Law on Pre-school Education and Education and the Framework Law on Medium Professional Education and Training in BiH, we point out in particular the need to adopt our own laws under the Okvrno Law on Higher Education of BiH. 2. We point out the need for faster implementation of all framework state laws by the competent educational authorities in BiH, with particular emphasis on the enforcement of those provisions of the laws relating to the achievement of children's and human rights in the field of education,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23289	May I have your attention, please, take your seats so we can talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23290	3. It is necessary that the Conference of Rectors of BiH realises its legal mandate in full capacity and thus is identified as the highest representative of the interest of the academic community in BiH, since we have the impression that there is indeed a lot of problems precisely because the Interrectoral Conference in full capacity has failed to fulfil its task and its task, which has been established through the Framework Law on Higher Education. Here, I'll forward this conclusion to the service. Thank you. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23291	Thank you very much. That should be delivered to the service. But here, I have a request from the Secretary-General who thinks it will be useful to hear some more information before I give you my word for the discussion, possibly to benefit you. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23292	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, before I say anything, just to ask for a professional service, which I have been asking for several sessions, that we also get the agenda of this Parliament when the agenda is finally agreed, because I think it's the turn, if we follow Parliament, at least we get it, as if we're not sitting here together and it's not the same interest. I've been looking for it two or three times, unfortunately I didn't get it. As far as this information is concerned, we have collected new data, new information regarding the implementation of all these laws, and I appreciate that it is correct to inform you, given that this information when it was done was already September-October month and since then much has changed. So, when it comes to the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH and the obligations of entities and cantons to comply with their laws, the situation is next. The Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia has completed an analysis of the compliance of the Law on Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia with the Framework Law and amendments to the Law on Higher Education in the Republic of Slovenia will be adopted in February. The Ministry of Education and Science of Canton of Sarajevo is the Law on Higher Education, i.e. The Canton Assembly adopted 31.12, so the law has already been passed. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Hercegovic-Neretva Canton – a draft law is expected to be discussed at a session of the Canton Assembly on January 19th. According to the University and University, the draft statutes have been prepared and only the law is pending. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Women's-Doboj Canton – a public debate on the draft law has been concluded. The work is under way to produce a final text that will soon be directed to the government and then to the Canton Assembly. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the UN-Sancanton – the law is unfortunately not yet discussed at the Canton Assembly session, since there was no congregation majority and is expected to enter the procedure soon. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of Tuzla Canton is well known, and we have already stated that it has adopted the Law on Higher Education and the creation of the statutes of the University is under way. 101 The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Middle Bosnian Canton – The bill was submitted to the Canton Government and a statement is expected in late January 2009. As regards the Regulation on the use of academic titles and the acquisition of scientific and professional titles, you are aware that it is not specified who brings it and after a lot of debates within the Ministry itself, and the debate with the Conference of Ministers of Education, a final agreement has also been reached with the rectors, which are asked to send their experts under the auspices of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and to prepare that Regulation. The meeting was held on 12 January, there was a single position on the draft regulation and it will be held at the beginning of February, we expect, finally verified at the second, or next session. If this does happen, it will be a huge step forward in the process of using academic titles and acquiring scientific and professional titles, in accordance with Article 6. Framework law. When it comes to other laws, i.e. it is also necessary to inform you that on 30 October the Council of Ministers adopted a Decision on the appointment of Dr Nihad Fejzić as Director, Master of Jugoslav Vuk Tepić as Deputy Director and Boris Ćurković as Deputy Director of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. Then, at the same session, a proposal for a ranking of candidates for members of the Management Board of the Agency was established, and on the basis of this, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples elected members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. What is extremely significant is that in the Council of Ministers, there is already a Regulation on the Agency's work and I hope at the first next meeting of the Council of Ministers that it should be adopted, and the Statute of the Agency, which should also be adopted at the Council of Ministers. Then, on 15.12., Dr Borko Sorajić was appointed director of the CIP by the CIP Management Board. So, after three contests, we finally got the director of the Agency for the Recognition of Diplomacy. Members of the Management Board were also appointed in the meantime on 30 October. Meetings were held with all members of the boards of directors and the CIP agency, and preparations were made for the adoption of competent regulations, in particular regulations, clocks and other acts. What I also want to inform you more, very briefly, about the Framework Law on Preschool Education in BiH -- that the competent ministries have made a good step forward in the meantime. The Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Slovenia passed this law on 26.11. The Ministry of Education, Science and Culture of the UN-Sancanton adopted the Law on Preschool Education and Education on 5 December in the form of a draft and 19 December. 1. The Canton Assembly has reached a decision on a public debate on this law. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sports of Posavina County adopted the Law on Preschool Education and Education 4. 12. In 2008, which is also important. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of Tuzla Canton – The draft law passed a public debate and adopted by the Canton Assembly. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Women-Doboj Canton – Canton Government is 26. 12. set out the Proposal for a Law 29. 102 12. The assembly has started discussing this law and we expect it to be adopted these days. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Bosnian-Poninj Canton – public debate is under way and an appointment of the adoption of this law is expected. The Ministry of Education, Culture, Science and Sports of the Middle Bosnian Canton – Proposal for a Law on Preschool Education was adopted by the Canton Government and delivered to the Assembly procedure. The Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports of the Herzegovina-Neretva County – The bill was adopted by the Canton Assembly, with the disputed two amendments and the adoption of this law at the next session, session of the Assembly. The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the Western-Herzegovina County – The bill was passed by... and the debate is at the meeting of the Assembly which was to be held these days. The Ministry of Education and Science of the Sarajevo Canton – Proposal for a Law on Preschool Education and Education was adopted by the Canton Assembly. Ministry of Science, Education, Culture and Sports of Hercegovina County – debated the draft law and established the bill on pre-school education. In addition, I would just like to say that the Council of Ministers, meanwhile, has adopted a Decision on the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Medium Education on 30 October. The Ministry of Civil Affairs is 8. 12. to all education ministries, they provided a pooled list of candidates for the members of the Agency's Committee, with an opinion to deliver it to the Council of Ministers for appointment. This will practically round up the whole state-level process of law-making in the field of education. When it comes to the Law on Higher Education, the Framework Law, most ministries and universities have declared that at this stage it is not necessary to enter into amendments to the law until the existing law is implemented, and then to assess the weaknesses that should be changed. Here, I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23293	Thank you, Minister. I hope that these opening and additional remarks, those who have applied, will work for the MPs. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. List of discussions: Džaferović and Jukić still reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23294	The Information on the implementation of the law in the field of education adopted at BiH level, among other things, says five laws have been passed in the field of education as well as a finding at the beginning that the adoption of these laws created a legal and institutional assumption for the integration of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society, i.e. education in the European educational space. So it's an initial grade. But essentially, once we get into this matter, we'll see that the situation on the ground isn't like that. We in BiH have a marked discrepancy between what is normal and what is real. 103 Here is an example of the Law on primary and secondary education. In the law itself in Articles 3, 7, 8, 10, etc. it is said in a very clear way that it is necessary to respect its own cultural identity, language, tradition, in such a way that it is appropriate for civilizational fluids to know and respect others and otherwise, respecting diversity and cherishing mutual understanding, tolerance and solidarity among all people in this country. That's the law, but that's not the situation on the ground. And that it is not only us from BiH, at least those who criticise such a situation, but also the numerous reports of European and international organisations that have been warning us for years about the unsustainable situation in the education system in BiH, with all of these European international organisations that I am talking about not being able to say that BiH is a European state in which there is discrimination in the education system. With that grade, I must say, I agree. It is true and, unfortunately, it is devastating for the BiH state, both its entities, for this government, and for all of us together. I must say, too, that for years people from Europe have been warning us of one negative fact, one negative phenomenon – these are two schools under one roof. However, the current government in BiH is over the problem year by year and does not solve the problem that is the problem. Even this information says that one working group will be formed from representatives of the Federal Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports, of the same ministry from another entity, canton etc., where I quote, "to conduct an analysis and prepare complete information on this case – two schools under one roof". I don't think I have anything more to do with such an analysis and needlessly continue to lose months and years on this issue. We should have formed long-standing working groups, not to analyse anymore, because the matter has already been analysed enough, but working groups that will remove what the representatives, first of all, of the Council of Europe, are talking about. So this information, in my opinion, was supposed to give, first of all, an answer to what are the concrete effects, the results of these laws in bh. the education system. It should have given a very clear answer whether the Council of Europe's serious objections to the education system were removed, what was done on this plan. Did at least make some shift in relation to the condition we had. We, here we all are, at least formally
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23295	May I have your patience and attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23296	We swear on some European standards, in fact that we want to move faster towards the EU, but when concrete things need to be resolved on the way to the EU, that thing is quite different. I think it would be good to realize today that in BiH we really have, in the good part of BiH territory, an ethnic apartheid and that it would be good to take some measures to remove it. I also think that we have not removed the key educational system defects in BiH and that children in BiH still do not have a normal education system as children in other European countries, above all EU countries. So I suggest, at the end of this brief debate, one conclusion. I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives task the Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide information to the House of Representatives on the removal of objections, any objections, and here I have spoken of 104, which the Council of Europe delivered in its report and cited as a need for BiH to remove it urgently on its way to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23297	Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23298	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am one of those who has launched an initiative here in Parliament to get this information on the agenda, to come to Parliament, to come on the agenda, and I thank the Ministry, the minister and the assistant in charge of this, for providing us with this information. We are in BiH, because I have noticed, so everything that we have managed to regulate the regulations, the information that comes from the field, as my predecessors say, says that the laws adopted are not fully applied and I think it's good that we have this kind of debate today, to say what we have to say. We will help both the minister and this ministry solve these problems. In BiH, we have managed to regulate this area normally through five laws so far. We have also established a number or establish a number of institutions but key problems have not been solved. I can't even get rid of myself until the laws are passed. Now the laws have been passed and it is up to us to insist on their implementation. I think that colleague Alajbegović suggested a group of conclusions that could fit and what I'm going to talk about. I'm not going to make any special conclusions. I will only talk about two, or three important issues when the education system in BiH is on Wednesday. First, the issue of non-implementation of the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, which was prescribed by the joint teaching core and special classes in all schools in BiH. What Is the Bible’s View? 5 / 15 8. In 2003, the relevant ministers or the relevant educational authorities committed to applying all schools in BiH since the start of school 2003-2004 and teaching on the basis of these joint curricula. What I know is that this does not seem to be done in BiH, and I think it is high time that the joint teaching core began to be applied in all primary and secondary schools in BiH. So we have practice today – so this applies especially to people who are returnees, this is done by respecting their basic human rights – this is being done with some kind of domination. We did not normly create such a system, we created a completely different system for everyone, when it comes to education, to feel comfortable and again to express multiethnicity and unity in this Bosnian-Herzegovic society through the common teaching cores and special classes. I want to especially underline this thing today and insist that it finally starts to apply to BiH. I know that the Ministry of Civil Affairs has no authority, there is no stick in its hand that can force someone to do this job, but this is the Framework Law and we as Parliament need to call the Ministry, give him an additional incentive to do whatever is possible, but of course everyone else in BiH to make this thing happen. It is unacceptable or inappropriate that someone is forced, practically forced, because he is forced because there is no other education, if he wants 105 at all to have an education that is compulsory, so basic or secondary education, to learn language, to learn, what I know, history, to learn everything that represents this national group of objects that he would not want. So, the law promotes the principle of elections, and in all of BiH this thing must be made possible. So that's one problem. The other problem is two schools under one roof. This information shows that a body was designed to offer a solution by the end of last year. I don't have any information on whether it's done by now, I suppose it hasn't, and I'm calling on the minister to keep working on this issue so this thing ends. And the third thing, in my opinion, is the issue of implementing the Law on Higher Education, i.e. the accreditation of the University of BiH. This is one of the important conditions for BiH to join the Bologna Process, so that BiH and the people who are educated in BiH can enjoy benefits from the Bologna Process, in order for BiH diplomas to be recognised worldwide and worldwide in BiH but that universities in BiH must be accredited before that. And I call on the Ministry to approach this accreditation process in the most serious way possible and to carry out this process of certification and accreditation of the University of BiH in the manner prescribed by this law. We, when we passed the Law on Higher Education, had a big debate about the authority of this state agency compared to the entity and these other cantonals. We have managed to find some formula to include everything in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society in this process that even lower levels of government have a part of their responsibility, but that the BiH state has a part of its responsibility when it comes to implementing the law. I think it's time we started to deal with these things more specifically and that we have this kind of information more often here in Parliament. I once again thank the people of the Ministry, the minister of civil affairs above all for these activities and for this information he delivered to us. I will not propose any specific conclusions, this is a stenogram, let it be delivered to the ministry, anything can fit into these framework conclusions that counterpart Azra Alajbegović suggested. I join her conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23299	Here, the minister is fortunately here and he listened very carefully to this. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23300	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to limit my debate to two or three questions, and I wouldn't want to repeat any of what's already been said. In fact, what is very important and perhaps a little attention to this information is an assessment of the extent to which certain objectives are met. I will say very specifically, talking about two goals, which is when we passed the Law on Higher Education then is one of the first goals set, which this law will solve, was the possibility of mobility of students. Here, after, I don't know, how long we're already applying this law or should we apply it, I've been asked by a large number of students -- which doesn't solve anything and when it's going to be solved -- and what's most important to them, as far as they're concerned, and that's there -- so many stories. 106 Now the situation is about such that mobility is almost impossible within BiH, such a small, relatively poor country. So that's the real truth and that's the big problem. And it should be really, I think, future and Council of Ministers, but who has the role to coordinate and through the Rector's Conference that it is necessary to live in full and proper form and with all its obligations and powers to do what is necessary and mandatory. I think we need to measure the success of these laws, first of all, through how much they have brought benefits to end-users. In information, the minister has beautifully singled out these articles which are really important articles and their realization of obligations from them will then... results, but the current state, I evaluate it, which is the information of people who care more about this than I do, so the students themselves, that the situation is not good, that it is very bad and that it is even incredible that it can't go to study from one university to another at the university that bears the same name and some addition if it does, etc. So that is unacceptable and I believe that this should be the first priority in implementing this reform. Furthermore, of course it is extremely important and important to ensure and extend the mobility of our students. There is again, above all, a very important role for other bodies, but especially the Rector's Conference, and it is unacceptable and should be critical here to say that it is a bar and incomprehensible to me that it has been this long and that there is a problem in the functioning of this conference. Well, they should be the first to really do what they do and not be up to them, but to be the leaders in implementing this reform, which I am convinced is good and useful, especially for countries as small and poor as BiH. And we haven't done anything about it, I dare say, almost nothing. And that's why I think the Ministry should also focus its interest and attention on that very part, so what has been done and that has direct benefits to students, and therefore, of course, to all of us, because laws are done for students, students, etc. They are users and ultimately benefits the entire society, ie if this is not implemented what is drawn and written, especially what is best and most valuable, then there will be great damage and... for the whole society.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23301	Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23302	Mr. Chairman, esteeming what the Ministry's jurisdiction is, the presentation of Mr. Minister and this information we have received, I will not enter what may be a problem in today's society, which is high education and corruption as part of higher education. And I don't see any clear action when it comes to this authority in BiH, because information about what we can read and hear and see for ourselves: there is a difficult situation at universities in BiH when it comes to education and corruption at universities. Appreciating what my colleagues said and appreciating what is in the general sense of the word education, its importance in BiH and the importance of what society we will have in the future – we will have the same way as we set education at lower and higher levels. In view of the laws and laws that we have adopted here and which have brought entity or cantonal ministries and congregations, and given that under the Constitution of BiH, according to international conventions, we have, in all respects, a colourful state in BiH when it comes to this area and I would like one or more information or exposure to 107 ministers in some future period to be processed and this, in some ways, area in which they are... teaching cores and respect for these teaching cores throughout BiH. So, this is a key question and I think that sometimes, I don't know if the minister can talk about it today, probably can't, but that in the next period we have one such review, that we don't create a system that brings some kind of administrative and some combinations within the law to the situation of a child in Srebrenica, Bratunac or some place that he can't learn Bosnian language or history or also that a child who returned to Sarajevo can't learn Serbian or a child of Croatian nationality that can't learn Croatian. It's a key thing. So there's one revolt and a child, we have one revolution and a parent and then the whole society. Let it take away no one, but it is given to him whose right it is to study. So, this exists in the law, there is a common teaching core that is defined by law, and I would like to pay more attention to it in some, from now on, and in some future period, that we have a clear view of such a situation and perhaps of what is and what needs to be taken to improve such a situation and bring it into this legal framework, if you will, and into the constitutional framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23303	I don't have any more reports. In any case, this is one of the few situations that we have a resolute minister all the time present and I am sure that Mr. Nović heard the messages and that in the next period, of course including these conclusions that are already here with me, we will have the opportunity to discuss the implementation of these laws. In any case, I appreciate that this debate has been very useful. So we're crossing... I'm closing the debate on item 19. Moving to point 20. Ad. 20. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, BiH Security Minister's assistant and after the event
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23304	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23305	Let the Dolić have two more sentences, and I'll give it right away. So, on the proposal of MP Dolić, here we have voted that this item of the agenda be placed in today's session. The truth is, we didn't get the information that's been formulated here by the Council of Ministers, but we got the information from the Secretary-General, and here I appreciate that's enough for some kind of debate. 108 Behold, the Proposer wants to explain everything again even though he wrote, he said, but here you go, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23306	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, upon request of this information by the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23307	Please, a little more patience, we're at the end, please, a little patience to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23308	I was initiated by the new situation, so after the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković in Croatia and the constructions that can be read and heard in the media about the case. The arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, an assistant minister of security, which took place in Rijeka on 16 January, by determining the monthly detention and charges imposed on him, is a first-rate scandal and a new blow to BiH's low rating and reputation in Europe and the world, and only one more in a series of indicators of the functioning of the current government in BiH. The scandal and coup is a team that is known to have Vjekoslav performed a number of important security and anti-organised crime and terrorism functions in BiH Vuković addition to the post of Assistant Minister of Security. As is known, Vuković served as Head of the Anti-Organised Crime and Terrorism Sector, member of the task force on the fight against terrorism, BiH representative organised by the GRECO Member States, President of the Commission for the Review of Nationalised Citizens of BiH, etc. Judging by these functions he performed and by the approach he expressed in the performance of the work himself as well as, I believe, a large number of elected representatives in BiH, Vjekoslav Vuković, included in a group of young and prospective personnel from the security and fight against organised crime and terrorism in BiH and beyond, and this more for me, the arrest and these charges against Mr Vuković personally caught me and surprised me. Regardless of all, the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković in Rijeka is a first-rate scandal that damages BiH's reputation in Europe and the world, but it seems to me, and the reactions and official views that the team, on the occasion of the arrest, was presented by Minister Tarik Sadović, are also scandalous and show a real picture and opportunity for the functioning and mutual relations of the current government in BiH. If the BiH Security Minister's main comment, following the arrest of his assistant in another country, was that he was close to US intelligence circles and other US structures in BiH, then it is regrettable, irresponsible and scandalous for me as an MP in the country's assembly. Constructions and comments on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković in domestic and foreign media against alleged retaliation for the seizure of 700 citizenships of naturalised citizens, the discovery of so-called Iranian ties, mentioning employers for the murder of Leutar, knowledge of the functioning of Sarajevo and bh. The ground floor and secondly, leave many open issues, raise doubts and mistrust with BiH citizens and the public. What I say as well as, above all, the severity of the charges brought against the arrested BiH official is only a small part of the reasons why it would be normal for the Council of Ministers to officially inform BiH's 109 assembly and the public in BiH about the arrest of Vuković and thus remove these numerous speculations about this scandal. I would once again like to thank the College of the House, the Council of Ministers, means the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministers for their express reaction on this matter and which means yesterday's request was submitted, this information came today from the resolution minister. We received this information about this event by the resolute Minister of Security, Mr Sadović, and it is for me the official position of the Minister's Council, but not the Council of Ministers, because there was no time to consider this information at the Council of Ministers, and this is what the chairman of the Council of Ministers has informed us about here and in writing. I am personally satisfied with this official piece of information, although Minister Sadović has not listed some of his statements here that are inappropriate to his function as minister and by the function of the officer arrested Vuković and some other structures circulating in the means of informing about this scandal. I would like to ask Minister Sadović what means by his statement that "the arrested Vuković is close to US intelligence circles in BiH and other US structures in BiH"? If this is true, then certainly, as far as I know our laws, there are certain legal conventions and what the minister has done. Which means that Vuković passed a security check in January 2008 and received access to the data under the designation very secret and what the minister was also going to say. So, personally, at this point, I am satisfied with the information and speed that Minister Sadović reacted to and I suggest that this House Information be taken to the knowledge, and that after the discussion and adoption of the Council of Ministers, the final information be delivered to the MPs and that if there are any deviations from what the minister has written here, let the information be put on the agenda again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23309	It's a little Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23310	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, here, it's good that we have this topic on the agenda today, I would say, and an opportunity to say a few words about it, but hopefully, we take concrete views. All of us or most of us who heard about this case heard this, I hope, on Friday, when it happened, mostly from means of information that there was an arrest of one of our civil servants, more specifically, Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković, assistant minister of security and member of a series of different bodies, which meant that the Ministry of Security was representing BiH in international organisations, so I would say, in a certain way, the chairman of a single body confirmed by this Parliament, I mean the Commission for the Review of Citizenship of Naturalised Citizens of BiH. At the very least, it seems to me that the institutions of this country are neither responsible, nor timely, nor taken this case seriously enough, and the reactions to this case 110 individually given through public information funds are, again, in the least, irresponsible and irresponsible. I'll remind you. In Rijeka, an assistant of our state minister was arrested, by chance his name is Vjekoslav Vuković, on very serious charges. The charges call into question BiH's credibility. Vjekoslav Vuković is a representative of BiH no matter how much either of us did not like it or liked it. He is also representing BiH, and as I said, as shown by this information from the resolute minister, and in some international bodies, the bodies of the Council of Europe to fight organised crime. Vjekoslav Vuković is, that happiness as it is not and that we have the Ministry of Security as we do not have, an assistant, I would dare say, the most important sector in that ministry, the Department of Combating Organized Crime and Terrorism, is briefly speaking. So if we think this is a question, and we think that because we've been dealing with this issue, only Vjekoslav Vuković, and we're going to wash ourselves all together by the fact that we're going to suspend Vjekoslav Vuković and send him, I don't know what kind of notice that he's under temporary suspension, I think we're all mistaken for what everyone thinks and everyone who does that. We have debated in this house countless times the fact that in another country in our environment another citizen of this country has been arrested and that he is suspected of another crime allegedly committed on the territory of this country. And here we know how much bile and emotion and everything else has been debated, and I'm right to say, about that case. Today, all of us together, our esteemed colleague, Selim Bešlagić, reminded us of one of the same fact when he, don't mind me, here's what I abuse his name, I get the circumstances, I said it when I was discussing this case, I get the circumstances for him of happy circumstances, I'll say for us happy circumstances, I've avoided having company with Jurišić colleagues in prison in Belgrade. And then we reacted as we reacted. No matter who he is and where he arrested one of our citizens, I need to ask a few questions to all of us and to all of you. Do we think that this is the way we've done it in so far, that we're protecting the dignity of this country? Do we think it's a good idea to accept newspaper inscriptions as credible information? Mr. Minister, what you delivered to us today as information, regardless of your ministry's capacity, is at least scandalous. I apologize for having to say this, but I know more about this case from the papers. I don't want to be informed about cases like this from the papers. I was also wanted by journalists, asked to comment on this case, and I deliberately avoided the comments on this case, because I don't think I'm helping this country or the Ministry of Security, or the Council of Ministers, or Vjekoslav Vuković. On the principles of criminal law applicable in the developed democratic part of Europe, including in our transition countries, both in our environment and in our country, no one is guilty until the court finds him guilty in a court of law. I'm afraid that we, that already some, I didn't, find Vjekoslav Vuković guilty. I think we're racing in some comments that might make his life miserable. I believe, and I will say it openly here, I believe until otherwise proven to me that Vjekoslav Vuković is innocent. And let's say he's not, let's say, and he's not, according to this information and information we've read from the media, so I can only have such information, based on one criminal accused in neighbouring Republic of Croatia of preparing someone else's murder, fortunately prevented. And 111 is the only evidence I know of. Maybe someone knows someone else, but I don't know them. So, think about each and every one of you as many of you, here I'm going to say, smaller criminals or honest people in order to get revenge on one of you, let's say that today I'm not going to vote for this sugar bill, for example, for the sake of saying that I sold him a ton of weapons and military equipment. That's a statement. Imagine a situation to defend yourself against such an accusation. Imagine the situation that you have to do this abroad, so imagine the situation that you're a representative of the state, some institution where doing things by the nature of the job, I don't envy anyone who works in law enforcement agencies, because by the nature of the job, they're doomed to object, to produce geometric progression of the enemy. And these are all some kind of operation of my own against these and these cases. What I am particularly concerned about, I ask questions and then I will suggest a conclusion - what did the Ministry of Security do when one way or another, I totally don't care, I mean unserious information - phone conversation, someone informed me on the phone that Beriz Belkić had arrested, and I am now looking at it because we are about that kind of relatives, whether, he's the vice president, and I've been informed by someone and I've been satisfied. That someone from another country and to me, it's a sacred letter. Just like this, I hope you give more accurate information.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23311	Please be patient, regardless of the subject of a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23312	But it's a very sensitive subject. So I'm interested specifically in what did the Ministry of Security, whose assistant minister, a high-ranking civil servant, have been arrested in the neighbouring state? I say responsibly, this arrest has caused huge and inconceivable damage to BiH's reputation. What did it do to determine the credibility of the information served to him? Is it anything?' The second question: "What is the foreign ministry - it is about our citizen and, I stress, for me, a highly-positioned civil servant - has made it through its consular department to contact our citizen and our civil servant and to ask him how you are, is it true what they are charging you with, and do you need anything? If we are a state that takes care of ourselves and its citizens, we would do so according to the worst criminal, if our citizen is to find himself in trouble somewhere here, or in the prison of another state." I don't see anything from this. There are stories she said she said, maybe she did, maybe she didn't. Let's imagine a situation where our Ministry of Security, here in Sarajevo, arrests an assistant minister of some of us neighbouring states. Why wouldn't they imagine that, too? Well, that's possible, what. Do we think our ministerial assistants are all criminals, terrorists and thieves and everyone else is fair? I say this all under the belief that Mr. Vuković is innocent until proven otherwise. And I want to believe until proven otherwise. But we took it as if he was already guilty. According to some information, it is said that it is suspected of a trade that 112 allegedly committed in BiH, I think, which is why I linked the case to Jurišić. And we don't care, I mean, since we're obviously not ready, I mean, girlically to fight anything, we can't wait to arrest one of our own in another country, that they're judging him because we won't. Some remarks, which I am interested in, the type that Vuković was working with, which is also mentioned in the letter of the distinguished representative Dolić, or initiative, with the US Intelligence Service, I read somewhere the specific name of the first deputy high representative, as an incrimination, that he met with him. I tried to get information on whether it was forbidden by our civil servants? I mean, I don't know, to be honest, I don't know. If it's forbidden, should it wait for someone to be arrested for some suspicion of something else to put on his burden? At least I, as I've noticed no one is hiding here, I have experience, people, I've said it a million times, when our porter calls someone from the Office of the High Representative, he can call him the President of the State, he won't respond to the president, he'll go there. And we all know that, if we're not because, if we're against it, let's just make sure we don't. But let's not add that to people as incriminating if anything happens to them. I don't know if Mr. Vuković went, except for the newspaper inscriptions and this information from the minister, the official or private car. To be honest, I don't know if he went official or private. It's all over the paper. I've seen so far that a lot of things aren't true. So, I've seen this before, and hopefully I'll see this second one soon, and you and I haven't, but we've accepted it as if it were. So, we can't, we have to distinguish important from irrelevant, we have to finally start taking care of ourselves, about the institutions and the state, whether it's the head of an institution, whether it's Marko, Peri, Ivo, Sulja, Simi, it doesn't matter who. So, to our satisfaction and dissatisfaction, all of you and such represent this country. And we must finally start taking responsible state measures against all such cases. Because if we don't do it today, and obviously we haven't done it before, let's not be surprised in the future and have empty debates again, because this will all be an empty debate if it ends in this debate. Here, I think a lot of things should have been taken and not taken, but I think it is not too late to take certain measures, so in this sense I propose the following conclusion: 'The Council of Ministers undertakes to collect all relevant information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković through the competent ministries, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to provide all relevant information on the establishment of Vjekoslav Vukovic, and to the next session of the House of Representatives, and after contact with Vjekoslav Vuković and the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia, to this house with complete information and a proposal for our determination against this case.' So, all the information with all the necessary details and I want to be responsible for this and say yes, it's okay, or it's not okay, or let's say what measures are if it's not okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23313	Momčilo Novaković. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23314	Well, first of all, let me say that I'm going to support this proposal by the conclusion of the second vice-president and I don't think this debate can end with the knowledge of this information we've received. And that's why I think that, after all, I am chairing it by his letter to us here, in fact in some way, he's directed a further debate on this issue. Here, I want to believe that the Republic of Croatia also cares about its own credibility. So they won't make any moves that can endanger that own credibility, and arresting someone's assistant minister isn't easy. Here, I want to believe that Mr. Vuković is not guilty of anything, but then Croatian authorities will have to give a really fat explanation to this state – why they arrested the assistant minister and gave the media the information they gave. But there's something else I wanted to say. I'm only saying this on a basis or, in a way, a review of the discussion, on the discussion of the vice-president. You see, if we were a happy country, then the minister would tie his fate to Mr. Vuković's fate. Or, if it turns out that Mr. Vuković did what was put on his burden, then the minister would have to resign. But we're not a happy country, and that's not gonna happen with us, and we're not gonna be a happy country until it happens. What's the least after that, here, is that the minister doesn't resign, because he doesn't consider himself responsible, if we assume the situation in which this turns out to be true. Of course, if this is not true, then the commitment to fate remains only because it implies that everyone continues to do their job and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Presidency should then end the situation with Croatia. But here's the thing, and if the minister, and even if it proves responsibility, doesn't resign, and I don't think he will, then the least he can do is open an investigation at the Ministry, because it's not possible that if this is true that the man there sat alone on the chair and did it all himself and everyone else is right. So in a happy country, that would open up a lot of issues that would be addressed. I am sure that these questions will not open with us unless, first of all, the Council of Ministers, without waiting for MPs' requests for such information, takes these initial steps alone. I didn't draw any conclusions, because it seems to me that any conclusion can prejudge some solutions, except, of course, that, I repeat, I support the conclusion of the second chair, because it opens up space and creates an active position to discuss this issue with a lot more information than we have in this information. And we've got a lot more of them from the media than there are here, so if anything, maybe we could look back at you, tell you exactly what's out there and what's not true, if we know. And if we don't know, then at least realize that all of you in the media wrote or whatever the Ministry really knows at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23315	Denis Bećirović. _________(?) 114 Excuse me, Denise, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23317	I'm sorry to say, but there will be an impression that he is more guilty minister than Mr. Vuković from these exhibitions. And now I don't get it. Knowing that neither the minister chooses the assistants and no one opens up the problem as Mr. Vuković went to Rijeka, where he went, whether the officer responsible has let him go, whether the director, Deputy Director of DGS, etc., etc., and that he has done nothing. I think that this state should be a service to all citizens in BiH, as well as to Mr Vuković, but this does not affect the investigation or trial, possibly, if it does. So this is the only way to commit to the state, is to provide each citizen with a service to the extent that it will not affect the investigation or trial. So it would be interesting to open up a broader debate when it comes to this whole story so that we can see all the actors both all the responsibilities and all the responsibilities of the people we are talking about today in this House. If it is a major or violation of BiH's reputation in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23318	Here, let me help out a little. I remind you that this is sort of preliminary information, the first possible information we've received. I really do thank the Minister. Within 24 hours, I remind you that yesterday, at three or four o'clock in the afternoon at the Extended College, we discussed this, our service asked for this afternoon, and we got this first initial information. Here, we have suggestions to follow up on and please keep that in mind. Here, I see Mr. Novaković has already answered the line. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23319	I am really sorry that my colleague Ahmetović understood the discussion in this way or understood my views. Actually, I wasn't really talking about guilt, I was talking about binding the Minister's fate to this whole case. And I didn't say who was more guilty. I was saying that we are a happy country, in a happy country because of the excessive use of force against protesters, the minister resigned, even though he was not a protesters and did not give the order to beat them on the back, but resigned because there were police officers who took the right to do so without his permission. And then he resigned, not because he's guilty, but because he's creating or opening a process for the future minister and pointing out to future police officers that that's not how it can be done. So, I wasn't talking about guilt at all and, I repeat, I said we're a happy country? Since we're not a happy country, I don't see it happening with us and I don't see why I'm being replicated. Here, that's me. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23320	I think Parliament reacted well, but here you go. Denis Bećirović. I have a report of selo Bešlagić. Please report those who intend to discuss so that we can plan, possibly, tonight's vote. Anyway, we intend to do that. If we want to do that, let's be rational, to discuss it specifically, not to replicate it needlessly, etc. So I have Denis and Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23321	The Honorable Chairman, since you yourself said that the information regarding this case is still incomplete, so my discussion will be much shorter. In fact, no matter how this is over, at this point it can certainly be said that this is a difficult new scandal for BiH. And in any case, on such examples, BiH's well-wrought credibility is collapsing. What you can say very clearly at this point is that the government's reaction is extremely trim and extremely inadequate, given the problem it is. It is not an ordinary assistant, but it is an assistant security minister who is still chaired by the Commission for the Review of Citizenship, the head of the Council of Europe's Committee, who is quoted as saying, 'The task force on the fight against terrorism, the head of the BiH delegation to the GRECO Committee of the Council of Europe, a member of the Evolucation Team of the Council of Europe', etc. I can't agree here. Some have pulled some parallels between Ilija Jurišić and Vjekoslav Vuković's case, there may be some touching points, but these are completely different two cases, and I would like to stress that when last and last year, what happened to Ilija Jurišić, and later Bešlagić, Delibegović and others, SDP immediately sought an extraordinary session. As we can see, the government didn't ask for an extraordinary session, the Council of Ministers didn't ask for an extraordinary session, the minister didn't ask for an extraordinary session, even this information came to the proposal of one opposition MP, which, in itself, speaks enough. What kind of human policy we have in this country, as people come to places like this, is now a special topic. Even the real question is whether Vjekoslav Vuković, although I should say there is still a need to see certain evidence to determine whether or not the man is guilty, but it is quite open question whether only Vjekoslav Vuković is the only man from the top of the government who is associated with organised crime, noting that I do not know specifically about Mr Vuković that things will eventually turn out. But this is a question I've asked a very open question, and it wouldn't surprise me if again, in the coming months, we had a new scandal. However, since Mr. Chairman Beriz Belkić rightly said that we do not have complete information, I propose at this point, in my opinion, two possible conclusions, and the first is similar to what Mr. Lozančić suggested. First conclusion: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information in the next five days on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković." 116 I say here on purpose 'in five days'. We've been through a few days now, this is a very serious topic, and I think we should call the Council of Ministers and discuss this issue and get real information. Another conclusion: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will hold a full debate at the next session, on 28 January 2008, on the information delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers." So this is a second conclusion, even though I personally think it's a seven-day wait-for-this thing by next Wednesday a lot. But here, I suggest these two conclusions that as soon as possible we open this issue and try to get relevant information about this case which, as we know, is now already known, not only in BiH but also beyond the borders of BiH, which is not good for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23322	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23323	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will try to be very brief. The reason I'm reporting is exactly what Mr. Niko Lozančić said. It happened once we kept quiet, it happened to the other we kept quiet, it happened to the third we kept quiet and then we came to Parliament here and we had a debate where we had no information, no data, and -- where are you hojo? In the stream. What were you doing? Nothing. The other thing is, let me just not get into Vukovic's case, because until it's proven that he's guilty, I don't think he's guilty, but let me just point out two things that happened in our neighborhood. When he was arrested, it seems to me, Captain Latal in Greece, the Croatian captain from Dubrovnik, Croatia came forward, sent a protest note and asked that the fact that the man is not charged until the data has been proved, Captain. And that's how it was and as I can see it was the same hack that the drugs, over there, there, when that man was neither guilty nor indebted and he came back. But be careful, the government has made a move. Here's another example, a game in Titograd. Red Star game – Future. The hooligans from Belgrade broke it there. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, now, you weren't, Podgorica, I'm sorry. These hooligans did something there, Montenegrin police caught them, watch out for evidence, the Serbian government is protesting 117 notes within 24 hours to free a Serbian citizen and will be there... With us, I have data that a Hrvat from BiH has been caught in Egypt and is there in prison, we don't know that. We have Ilija Jurišić. Our Council of Ministers didn't answer. Yes, we do. Now here's Vuković. The Council of Ministers, as the authority representing this... is not answering, executive power. The question of citizens, here's no difference who it is, the question of citizens is our last hole in the play. For these reasons, I believe that this question is very important, not the visas of Bešlagić, not the visas of Jurišić, not the visas of Vuković, not the vision of this man who is there, but the visas of an ordinary citizen who can be arrested tomorrow, and if he is not, I don't know, an MP or if he isn't asked a parliamentary question here, then he won't even know about it. And I think that's what the conclusions are coming from, which are here, but I'd just like to say, I'm not going to write them, but I think they need to be aware that we are having an objective, or serious debate on the protection of our citizens. And let them respond in BiH to the courts of BiH, or if it happens that he did there, let the procedure be conducted correctly until the moment until it is proved whether or not he is. This is about only Mr. Vuković having two citizenships. For these reasons, we must again, as a state, make an effort, and whether we can make an extradition to BiH or not, it is now a matter of other things because of these citizenships, and therefore I believe that this debate is very important and that it must be based on facts, but that the debate on the protection of BiH citizens is being held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23325	I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23326	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23327	Oh, well, you haven't answered. Here you go, Minister. I should have figured it out a little bit. Well, there's going to be a replica now, a decent number. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23328	Thank you, Chairman, for the fact that you gave me your word first. Dear ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23329	Please listen to each other. A little more patience, we're almost there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23330	Let me give you a few more information, possibly, if you want interpretations, because I've heard some things that don't stand. The first fact is that yesterday I received a request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers at 17:30, after hours. And you got this information at 9.30 this morning. I think it is, however, one effort and effort by 118 ministries and employees to inform this home in due time. So how did this whole story come about? I think this information was explained in a very correct way without prejudicing guilt. She realized what was possible at this point as a fact and all those steps that we were obliged to take under the law. So, on the 16th of this month, Friday, I was called by the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia Tomislav Karamarko and informed me that the Croatian police, under quotes, were raised by Assistant Minister Vjekoslav Vuković. I asked him if it meant he was arrested? Yeah, he says that's it. Minister, please, you know that this is a highly-positioned person, what is your evidence, is your evidence strong and strong? And I got a positive answer. Of course, I asked Mr. Karamarko to inform me in writing, and here, please, so the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia, a letter on the facts of which the official Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia informs me of the case. And all these facts are in this information. It's true that the media wrote all sorts of things. Here, I'll tell you. As soon as the information was received, I, my Information Service, gave basic information... to the media that my assistant was first detained for an informative interview or an informative conversation, that after the next day, he was detained, I think, by an investigative judge, that he had been assigned 48 hours and that after two days, when that deadline had expired, he had been given a 30-day detention period. What is very important to know is that Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković has dual citizenship, the Republic of Croatia and BiH. And according to information I received from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, he came to Rijeka with the intention of checking out his residence in Rijeka, to check out his residence in Rijeka. For what reason, I can't speculate right now. Then he was actually invited to this informative conversation. But the fact that he is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and that an arrest has been carried out and that tomorrow is likely, if it is stated, to be true, that the process will be conducted in Croatia. They judge him as their citizen. It's, I mean, a fact and don't ask us to make parallels with Greece. I mean, it doesn't make sense, because that arrested captain of Croatia is not a Greek citizen at the same time. So immediately after I learned I called the phone, as it says in this information, Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, informed him of the case and asked him to take all the necessary activities. I think he informed the embassy and, I don't know, directed our consular worker there to visit Mr. Vuković. Did he go to him, etc. Don't tell me, I don't know right now. So here's the question and the grades, I'm not going to get into anyone's grades, political grades, but here's a memo for you where I am 19. 1. Through the Interpol Cooperation Office and through the Foreign Minister, Mr Sven Alkalaj, asked the Republic of Croatia, here is a quote from the text: 'The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters in Article 4 has been prescribed the way in which the states of Contracting Parties traffic when they provide mutual legal assistance in civil and criminal matters in the manner and extent of that agreement. Taking into account the provisions of Article 4(2) and as regards the provision of Article 3 of the Agreement, we ask you to provide the following information to this Ministry concerning the existence of actions which are designated as burdensome, factual description and the time of the execution of a criminal offence or more crimes, as well as criminal or more 119 criminal offences which are entitled to be burdened. Please also provide the requested information as soon as possible, as well as a notice of actions taken by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the above mentioned actions." So we're looking, the official state is looking for, BiH, in the most urgent way possible, via Interpol, to deliver data on the matter. Please, therefore, the obligation under the State Service Act and the Regulation on the disciplinary responsibility of civil servants, if the civil servant is arrested, or if he is in custody, is to be suspended. And here's the store. I did the shop on official duty. On the other hand, the facts of the violation of the official duty of Mr Vjekoslav Vuković have been unquestionably established. Here, this will be determined by the disciplinary commission in the process, but so I immediately asked from the Republic of Croatia if Mr Vuković had reported to his superior, did there be any decision and order to refer to the official route? Why did he miss work, did he announce, did he use an official vehicle? Yeah, he used an absolutely verified fact. And what hasn't been checked, that the state border, eventually, has crossed with an official passport, which he, as assistant minister, owns. Look, it's another kind of responsibility and the Ministry has launched, so it has filed a request to initiate a disciplinary procedure for the competent State Service Agency, as the rules and laws already provide. So that's what we could do in accordance with the law. There's an MP here who asked what it means to check, check security? Well, I guess you know the ones who passed the Secret Information Protection Act. So, in order for any civil servant to have access to a certain degree of classified data, Mr. Vuković had, by the nature of his job, access to the highest degree of secrecy, so very secretly, he passed the verification he was doing under the law of the Intelligence and Security Agency. Therefore, the Intelligence and Security Agency has checked all his allegations and has carried out additional checks, found that there are no false elements in his statement, gave a positive opinion on the basis of which I gave him the Decision on access to classified information. It is very important and I ask you, therefore, by respecting all your political qualifications of this case, I ask you to understand one thing, and this thing is next – something like this cannot be warned. If a man at a certain point who was perhaps the most prospective member of the ministry, you know him himself, spoke an extraordinary English language, after a graduate study, he ran several committees, so a very good acquaintance, etc., why he decided at one point and whether it would prove I don't know it, but how can you prevent such a thing. These things, unfortunately, happen. I have publicly said that this damages BiH's reputation, that it is very embarrassing for the ministry and I do not know what is more expected of me in terms of comments. By nature, BiH, its intelligence and security agencies co-operate with other agencies, including US and other agencies. And Mr. Vuković, by the nature of his work, worked together, so what do you think he would have been a member of the Strike Group for the fight against terrorism without having had contact with certain services both ours and ours. In that sense, it was my statement to a journalistic question, and I was, believe me, here I am for days now. And of course, now Mr. Vuković is snaked and what he is and what he isn't, etc. If you have specific questions, I'm very prepared and I can give you everything about his status at the Ministry, etc. 120 Look, I really can't accept a qualification here said this is a scandalous report. This is a factually accurate report, i.e. Information. It's made with the information we have checked. If any information hasn't been verified, the word'supposed' stands. So we don't want to absolutely accuse or judge anyone until the court does. Look, what, here, I know it's late, etc., a very unpleasant case, it's kind of opening up the security sector issue, the whole, but on the other hand, we need to remember police reform. So we have to, really, I'm asking you, here's everyone who deals with it, analyze the applicable laws, see what our security sector is like, look at the department's jurisdiction. Here, let me tell you one thing. Look, the Minister of Security is responsible for security in this country. And keep an eye on the instruments – directors of administrative organisations, or agencies in its composition are operationally independent, they have their budgets, guidance for work is given to them by someone else and their staff problems, i.e. their associates choose themselves. Why don't you tell me what the contents of the Minister's responsibility are then? How, what kind of instruments do I have to make a difference and change things? So I invite you if you want... to make a thorough police reform, give the authority, and ask for responsibility. I'm in that kind of approach ready to take over. I thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23331	Thank you, Minister. Let's see. I have one reported replica. Please sign in. Who's got replicas? Here, just a minute, so Živković, Lozančić, Dolić, you can see he does. Let's move on, is there more? There isn't. So we have three reported replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23332	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković, as you said himself, was one of the best people in your ministry and here, on several occasions, he praised his work and the work of this commission that worked... If such a man, in your opinion, is detained, is it not most logical for the minister to go there immediately, without making any statements in the press? That this most prospective man, and here he was supported by this home several times, visited and asked what it was about and then made statements. Don't take it out on legal inability and everything. This is the most logical thing that the minister could do, and then deliver information to this home, or to the Council of Ministers. You can't say that it's unquestionably proven that man has abused his position using an official vehicle, and then you form a disciplinary committee to prove it. You can't say that. Then you have to leave, then form a commission, and then after the commission say it's undeniably proven. It's just not in agreement with each other. When we talk about these people who mentioned Serbia, and here I will mention some other citizens of BiH, why are they there? They are there because BiH institutions are not working. That's why they're there. Because we are giving the institutions of other neighbouring countries to do this and apparently, since the request of the Minister of War Crimes is for you here in BiH, which means the participation of Mujahedin, in front of your ministry is his request for extradition, or appeal. 121 Do not allow this man in BiH until the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office says the man is no longer required for any process. Don't get rid of such people from BiH, ask them to testify here after interpol for the crimes that took place. That's exactly what you can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23333	I'm asking you to keep a little nerve. Here you go, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23334	Thank you. Here, in order not to deviate from my efforts to speak in an appropriate language in this high home, I will try with my language and the chosen words to replicate a respected minister. Mr. Minister, Vjekoslav Vuković is not the director of one of your independent agencies within the Ministry, nor is he the assistant of one of the directors of these agencies, he is your assistant. So, your assistant. Therefore, the problem that your directorates, agencies are situationed as they are, I can understand that you have a problem with this, but it has absolutely nothing to do with Mr. Vuković's position which is yours, yours, and again your assistant and I hope that he will continue to be an assistant minister of security. Whether it's yours or someone else's, totally irrelevant. From your explanation, allow me a little personality, too, to conclude as if you've been looking forward to being moved away from you. Now I'm having a little bit of an experience of yours, so here I am saying, I said, and I tried to say in my first address that it was the Assistant Secretary of State, that it was an accusation that was very difficult, like the charges of BiH, and defending the dignity, defending the innocence of its assistant BiH has a chance to defend itself. We can talk about our shortcomings and the shortcomings of our system and the problems of police reform, but this is not the topic. So, we have an existing law, we have an existing organisational structure, we have an existing hierarchy, and, excuse me, now looking for reasons in something third, maybe we wait until constitutional reform and full police reform, we finish within a year, so let's see what happens to Vuković, if by then he's still interested in working in these institutions. Maybe we can wait. We can set it up like that. When I said that the information claims were at least scandalous, you commented, I thought that too much in one piece of information, in my opinion, which should be important information, there's supposed to be a copy. I believe you've copied from your colleague from the Republic of Croatia what he wrote to you. That's what I trust you with, then. But what has this country done to determine what it is? Is it true what your colleague wrote to you? Will you accept everything for granted that your colleague Karamarko wrote to you in the next period? Look out, he can write you anything. If you accept, I withdraw everything I say. Just make sure you get different letters. Well, then we have a principled attitude. I want us here to stand in defense of BiH's dignity. And I'm sorry if you understood me differently. I want to stand in defense of the Ministry of Security's dignity. And I'm sorry if you understood me differently. I want this country finally to stand up for the dignity of its citizens. The reason someone has dual citizenship, I'm sorry, 122 I mean, I really don't want to comment. Maybe we shouldn't have let that happen in this country's institutions. If that's why he's here unsuitable, but keeping an eye on us, that means all of this. Here, you now said here at the pay phone – you called your colleague Minister Alkalaj. And you don't know, until today you don't know what your colleague did, and Friday was. And your first associate is at stake. I trust you to call Mr. Alkalaj, I completely believe you. But what you called him, as if you didn't even call him, because you didn't bother to get information from your colleague from the Council of Ministers. Dude, I called you. What did you do? Give me specific information. Did any of the consular department officials contact Vjekoslav Vuković? Maybe Vjekoslav Vuković will, but look, but I think you're putting me in a position to tell you what you should know, the importance of the whole case. You said, now in the end, I know what checking is and I know what security clearance means and you just said, Vjekoslav Vuković has access to the documents of the highest level of confidentiality in BiH. I don't. Just because I didn't ask for that security clearance. I can't imagine what Vjekoslav Vuković, if desired, could reveal from very important secrets he could have had access to. I don't know, I was thinking if I were in his position, I'd think twice about how I'd behave. If my country, whose country I am so high... can't wait to get rid of me and do nothing to protect me and my dignity and my right to innocence until I'm convicted, then it's time for me to handle it myself. I'm not because he or anyone else is getting along, I'm so that we can really show interest in protecting the dignity of the country's institutions and the dignity of this country, because if we don't want to, believe me, no one else will.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23335	It's a Dolić. It's a replica. Easy, Remzija, easy, a little patience. Any more replicas? He has Bakir, so he has, of course, Azra Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23336	Well, first of all, I accept this proposal from Mr. Lozančić. It's just that the timing of that conclusion comes down to the next session of the meeting of this house. As for Minister Sadović's discussion, I asked two questions to Sadović. Exactly, what does the accent mean in his statements that Vjekoslav Vuković is close to US intelligence circles in BiH? What it means is that, again in his statement, the accent has passed security checks and that he has been made available with'very confidential' information. I didn't realize it the way the minister said it here. I took it as some kind of message from the minister that Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković was an associate of foreign intelligence services and that he was a big beast in all this. Which I don't think is... a good message at this point, that's not a good statement from the Secretary of Security when his co-worker, his close associate, was imprisoned. I wanted to hear it from the minister. I, preparing for this discussion, preparing this request, crossed a hundred portals in which, in various ways, a commentary arrest, etc., there are fantasies 123 written, all kinds of things in it. As for Minister Sadović's statement, these two things are at the heart of attention. I have understood them as another message that I do not recommend that a high official such as the minister directs to his associate who has been arrested in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23337	It's a line of lines. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23338	So, I'm replicating both of the vice-presidents, and before I mention that I will really support this proposal for a conclusion proposed by the esteemed Vice-President Lozančić. But really, when it comes to these, I can say,...the accusations or, in some way, objecting to the minister, indeed these objections do not stand and it goes, in some way, some limit. I think in this situation that Sadović did what he was supposed to do and what he could do in this situation and... all the other activities that he was doing, I think it would do more harm to Vuković than it would. And what the media was transporting in one way or another in a way that they wanted to put oil on the fire, that's a matter of the media. Indeed, not one of these charges on the account of a minister who was really responsible, knowingly did what he could and should have done.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23339	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23340	Of course, a man is innocent until proven otherwise, is he, and I agree that we should show seriousness, that someone should go and visit him, offer him help and legal help. And normally, if found guilty, he should bear sanctions. Before that, BiH should take care of its citizen and its official. But I also don't see why it occurs in my mind about what kind of minister Sadović has... a relationship, does he like it over this, did he look forward to something, etc. How can you think of it like that again? Also, I think it is very serious what counterpart Živković said about the people in custody and before extradition are from BiH. They were accused of being a threat to the national security of this country. I mean, how can a man endanger national security without answering in court? Then maybe he had some associates. Such things should indeed be investigated, otherwise it is only a single political, flat-rate assessment to drive a man out of BiH. If he threatened national security, he should end up in prison, he and his associates. For one of those people, we know clearly that he was running around Bosnia, setting explosives, shooting at people, now seeking political asylum in the neighbouring country. Who knows what he's gonna do next? 124 I think it is a very serious request from Mr. Živković that such people are not released until they respond and clarify their role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23341	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23342	Dear Mr. Chairman, the first part of my line was fully spoken by Mr. Izetbegović, so I won't repeat it. I'm just going to say my subjective impression that indeed Mr. Vuković, as I would say, was the person we all looked at with a significant impact on the future of BiH. Let's hope it stays that way. My first replica would actually be to you. You asked Mr. Sadović why he didn't leave. And it's not really a replica, it's a question. If he'd gone, would you have asked him why he left? And secondly, as far as BiH's dignity is concerned, I think that the state of Croatia is also very concerned about the integrity of the Croatian Ministry of Security and that if this situation turns out to be in some way unargumented arrest, Mr Vuković will be able to be compensated in some way through normal court proceedings, regardless of which the situation is certainly extremely unpleasant, which will leave a whole series of consequences for his further life. And what I would just like to comment on, which is that I don't understand at all the reasons why in the whole discussion, which lasted in the last 20 minutes on this home, actually replace the thesis and, in some ways, multiply, performs one phenomenon, i.e.. Multiplies... irresponsibility to Minister Sadović. Minister Sadović said what his powers were, he said what he had done, some of us, if we had done differently, done more, did less, but I also would not want this replica to be interpreted as the lawyer's performance of Minister Sadović, it really does not fall into my mind, but somehow I am in the position of Minister Sadović and I wonder what it really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23343	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sokolović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, although my predecessors have said a part of what I wanted to talk about, I think it was still from the vice-president of one incorrect relationship with Mr. Sadović and 125 has just been done, in my opinion, a replacement of thesis. Turns out he's the one who put Mr. Vuković where he is right now. And yet you gave me the knowledge that Mr. Sadović is the most important person in BiH. He's everything and he could've done anything. Is there more institutions in BiH and the leaders of these institutions that should have responded at this time, or was it just meant to be Mr. Sadović? Here, I'm opening a further question. I think there are others who should have responded and should have protected the BiH state's citizen. Well, in that part, I would ask for a more correct relationship and that we have a conclusion that will benefit Mr. Vuković, not impose some other problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23345	Thank you. I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23346	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23347	Momčilo, is this the last-minute replica or what? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23348	Well, it is. Look, look, now we've made two blocks here. Those who seek the responsibility of the minister; and others, as defences, are now ministers. And all the debate we ended up turning into this situation. Let me ask you -- how many countries in Europe can access very secret information to citizens with dual citizenship? A citizen of another country! I don't believe there are many countries, I don't believe there are any countries where a citizen of another country can have access to very secret information. Or the minister should have proposed amendments to the laws that would prevent some very secret information from going to another side in these cases. And don't go any further. This was not about responsibility because the minister sent Vuković there or did not prevent him from going there, but about another kind of responsibility that should be normal, which does not mean that someone will accept Mr Sadović's resignation tomorrow, because they will appreciate that he is not responsible for what happened. But here, as a moral man, fully aware of the problems in the ministry and the responsibilities of his ministry, he did so and, of course, will be treated accordingly. Here, I saw it so, not the responsibility of whether Minister Sadović is guilty or not of Vuković, who is responsible for this and that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23349	Replica, Lozančić. 126
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23350	Well, I don't know, there's no other way to turn around, so here's a replica. If I hurt Minister Sadović's dignity in any way, I apologize here publicly, because I had no intention at all, nor did I want to. And the question to Mr. Sokolović -- did anyone else need it? Yeah. It's only possible that it wasn't me, here it is possible, although I tried to explain it precisely, the first Mr. Sadović should, and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Ministry of Justice. In conclusion, I called the departments in charge, in my opinion, but I did address the Council of Ministers, so let the Council of Ministers assess. Maybe one of these ministries didn't. So, but these ministries seem to be. So it wasn't my intention to tear down the minister's dignity, but now I think the minister's most called was to respond adequately and more adequately, in my opinion, in my impression than he did.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23351	Thank you. I don't have any more reports, no more replicas. But here's to your information, as far as it's concerned, so the moment this news was posted on the media, news and Mr. Lozančić and I reacted, we communicated with the foreign minister, demanding urgent information, involvement in the process, etc. So there were some reactions after all. I have no doubt the Minister of Security did the same. Of course, we missed to get some information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether there was communication, etc., but we will sort of resolve it if we support some of these conclusions that are proposed here, especially when it comes to this conclusion by Mr. Lozančić, that we will obtain full information in the next as soon as possible and discuss this matter. Mr. Bećirović again proposes for Wednesday, we have a defined agenda for the joint session. I cannot change it without the consent of the House of Peoples, the session of the Joint College, etc. I can try, Mr. Bećirović, and I assure you that I always try as hard as possible. Of course, sometimes there are no results, but there are attempts. So this is how we conclude the debate on point 20. We still have point 21. Ad. 21. Giving consent to ratification. 127 Not to read all these agreements, I suggest, if you agree, that we conduct a single debate, noting that we have a positive opinion from the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23353	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23354	I'm sorry, I was too optimistic, Mr. Novaković. So we have to the last one. Are there any more reports that I should try to plan the voting date?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23355	The last one, just like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23356	It's not the hottest, but there it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23357	But okay, never mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23358	Until the last minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23359	Yeah, that's right. It was in the last second. Namely, I have certain objections to the Agreement under b) on the Global Environment Fund grant between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Agency for the realisation of the Global Environment Fund – the Neretva and Trebišnica Management Project. In fact, I think that this agreement has a series of inaccuracies, let's say material inaccuracies, and I don't think that because I am fully aware that we can't change the content of the Agreement, we can't, therefore, influence the content, they can suggest that we don't ratify this agreement, and I'll say for what reasons. Namely, on page 7 in schedule 1) The project description is said to be - the task of this project is to provide mechanisms for more efficient and fair water distribution between the users of the river basin Neretva and Trebišnice. There is no river basin of Neretva and Trebišnice. They have two river basins, one is the river basin of Neretva, the other is the river basin of Trebišnice. The management of the river basin of Trebišnice is defined by the Law on the Waters of the Republic of Slovenia. So there's a defined management of that river basin and I think it's, whether or not it's in progress, but one agency for the management of the Trebišnica River basin needs to be formed. 128 I'm afraid by this agreement we're going to disrupt here, I'm not afraid, but I'm sure we're going to disrupt some relationships and, on the other hand, here is now prejudged by the formation of a land area, which is, I must say, a problem, in my opinion, a problem. And what would be a solution here, but I'm saying we can't change it, is that here we're talking about two river basins, not one. If it were said -- in the river basin of Neretva and the river basin of Trebišnice -- then the thing here would be much clearer, and then it wouldn't affect it, because here it is, so the two river basins in two entities, you know, one of which defined the management of one river basin, and the other one didn't define the management of the other river basin, at least I don't have the information that it is. For these reasons, I propose not to ratify this agreement signed in Zagreb on 9 September 2008. As for the other agreements, I have no objections.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23360	Of course, Mr. Novaković, you have the right to plead. It's just, the water's a miracle, the roads are her unstoppable, they're coming together somewhere. All right, let's take it in a row. We have the first line of Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23361	Well, I did my best, I did some research on this agreement, and knowing that there are certain problems and disagreements about the use of water resources in the River Neretva and Trebišice Basin for the use of part of the water, so to speak. 'The upper horizons' in the gulf of the Trebišnica River,... the field, etc., I know something about this problem and I know that there are disagreements, i.e. concerned from here in the Neretva Valley that there will be a breach of the groundwater and water regimes, especially at the source of the Bregava River and in the other part, etc., and I believe that this agreement is one contribution at the beginning of resolving this issue and that it helps solve this problem. And that's why I don't think we should stop this, but we should support this, and it would be good to have one conclusion, but it doesn't have to be tied to this, but it's about this problem, which is that for a while we ask for information about what happened on this issue. Is the problem solved, how, how, how etc.? But of course, this is, I see it that way, the start of the solution, and will other people help us solve this, which is correct, we need to say hello and we need...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23362	Replica, Živković. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The discussion is Martin _________(?) 129
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23365	It's just, guys, it's about a grenade. I don't believe this is a law and that this grant can be implicated by the system if you don't take it, we'll sue you. It's about a grant, not a loan and any obligations to anyone related to these assets. There will be a way, there will be in the Federation as well as in the RS water management institutions, there will be a way in which the grants will be implemented. So I don't think there's any problem with this, with the ratification of this agreement, I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23366	Raguž, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23367	So, what Mr. Novaković stated as an explanation not to support the ratification of this agreement, I don't think it stands at all. Now I have answered the word, because the task of this project, what he has stated, is to provide mechanisms for more efficient and fair distribution of water among users. So, what's wrong with this? So the goal of the project we're getting is justice and more efficient management. So there is no reason for this project to be challenged and questioned. It's a key thing. And the other, ladies and gentlemen, it is not good that one project that can, what Mr. Jukić said, contribute to calming tensions, and they are not small. In this area, after very relevant research and expertise, there could be significant imbalances in balance, not only in water flows but in the overall life system. And here, we are not asking a question, we are not accusing those who have launched and implemented many of these projects, but here, we support a project involving relevant institutions of the RS, such as the Water Directorate. So it's all about working with mechanisms and funding to simply, in a way, contribute to a very important living space, each of which is important, and this is rarely dependent on water flows, Mr. Novaković. I have been born and raised and come from this constituency, and I will convey to you a particular concern that is not nationally located but human, civil and responsible in terms of what will happen to the fate of several rivers that have provided life in these areas for centuries and millenniums. And here, this is a project that's just looking for the ability to do things more efficiently and fairly, with clear monitoring mechanisms, and it's not a good message to challenge these projects.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23368	So, are these replicas, Momčilo Novaković and Azra Hadžiahmetović? We've got more replicas. Here you go. 130. Novaković's replica, then Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23369	I don't think we listened well. I am not disputed by the project, but by the slow terminology in which the river basin is said to be Neretva and Trebišnice. I think we understand each other well, Mr. Raguž, and we understand each other well and for what it is. Here, I'm not from that area, so someone had to tell me everything I'm saying right now. So I'm not from Herzegovina, so this whole thing has to be told to me that I would be saying this today, because I wouldn't even know about this if someone hadn't told me from Herzegovina. Which means it doesn't seem like it's going to settle the tensions with this, if some in Herzegovina have called me to tell me this. I don't think it's a project problem, but the problem is that it prejudges or defines a river basin that doesn't exist. So there's no river basin and people are afraid there's something else behind this, next. You understand? Therefore, there is a river basin of Neretva and a river basin of Trebišnice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23370	People are scared.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23371	And I don't see why. Sir, I apologize to the chairman for this. I understand we're tired, but I don't see why it doesn't say that when we sign the agreement, and then it wouldn't be controversial. I wouldn't discuss writing river plums of Neretva and Trebišnice at all. Here, I wouldn't, you wouldn't call me from below from Herzegovina if that were what it says. But that's not what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23372	All right, all right. Just a little patience. Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Replica, Martin Raguž. First Azra Hadžiahmetović. Martina, just one second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23373	I, let me just mention that if these arguments were heard in the Global Environment Fund, which were heard tonight in this room, I don't think BiH would ever get another grant. The way this fund works, the name of the Global Fund for the Environment, the approach to problems, environmental issues, a global approach in which there are no national, no borders, let alone entity-like, river-like, I don't know which, etc., is the same here as the Global Environment Fund Grant Agreement. I just want to mention that we're taking care of a little bit, because I'm not sure if we would refuse to do this again so we can have any kind of arrangement with this Global Environment Fund ever again. Thank you. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23374	I don't see how I'm worried this is gonna go away, but here, come on. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23375	Here, to accept that mutuality can be multiple and with multiple sources, I accept that, Mr. Novaković, but the essence of the story here is that the key reasons and concerns are not in one notch but in whether the water is turned away. A project that cost several hundred million euros and has been realised for decades. It also means that – don’t even the pears and apples! The second thing, the project is entitled ‘The Neretva and Trebišnjeca Management Project’. So that's two rivers, they come from where they come from. They came out a million years ago, and they're going to derail where they're going to dive or not, and we can't solve it with one type formula, two plums, one plum, etc. So there is no reason here, believe me, neither professional nor political nor any other that this project is not supported, because it includes all the relevant institutions of the RS to participate in this process and they have all the mechanisms of protection of interest and that space and these people. Of course, it takes one project to simply resolve the consequences that are multiple and which produce tensions and we will solve it in a way that we prevent it now, rather than further delaying and retaining the existing situation. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23376	Thank you. I'm no longer registered for replicas, and in this way we've exhausted the debate and on the 21st point of the agenda. I'm closing the debate. And it's practically up to us now to figure out when we're going to vote. I suggest it's 15 to 8, now it's 7.30. So 15 to 8 we start voting from point 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23377	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23378	Well, we could have voted an hour and a half ago, but, well, Mr. Bećirović, we're gonna wait a little while. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Please take your seats. I hope all MPs are present. Mrs. Mirjana, please sit down. Please hurry up, take your 132 seats. Just one more moment, there are no HDZ people. It's ringing, it's ringing. Okay, I hope we're all present and ready to vote. I remind you, we're voting from the fourth item of the agenda. So, we are voting now on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Commission. It's about the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 34 votes "yes", without votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we passed this law in a second reading, so the Act on the Protection of Secret Information. Let's go to point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH. We don't have amendments here either. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", with no votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that in the second reading we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH. Moving to point 6. Proposal for a Law on fiscal cash registers – Proposer: MEP Jozo Križanović. We declare this law in a second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 28 votes "yes", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have passed the Law on fiscal cash registers. Moving to point 7. The proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms; it is a law in the second reading and on the proposal of the President of the Constitutional Commission here we declare a purified...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23380	Mr. Chairman, just for clarification. I'm begging you, so that's you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23381	I thought you explained it to us, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23382	Yes, I did. It's just, you've got the purest text on you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23383	All right, all right. 133
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23384	I'm asking you to do the procedure alone. I suggest that amendments I to XXV be adopted in the package. in the 13th Report. 1. In 2009, and after that, we vote on this law. That's the pure text, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23385	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23386	We have the report, Jozo, we have the report. We were returning, saving this law, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23387	Please, nothing is disputed. I beg you, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23388	So, first we vote on the report, i.e. the agreed amendments. So we're voting on 26 agreed, on 25 agreed amendments. After that, we vote on this law in the consolidated text that we have received. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", without votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have adopted 25 consolidated amendments to our commission's proposal. We are now going to vote on the consolidated text of the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", one vote "against", enough entity majority, I find that we passed this law in the second reading, so the Law on genetically modified organisms in the second reading. Moving to point 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act (first reading) Prepare to vote. Vote!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23389	No microphone 134 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23390	Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23391	I just wanted to make sure he had a conclusion with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23392	We received a report, in which a conclusion was incorporated into the Commission's intervention. So we have a law in our first reading and we're pleading on the report, with a conclusion that's inside. Please, we're voting with the conclusion that's inside. With 28 votes "for", one vote "against", enough entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Customs Tariff Act in the first reading and the Commission's conclusion on this law. Moving to point 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. Vote now, with the Commission's report and conclusions. With 23 votes "yes", eight votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Amendments and Supplements Bill on Citizenship of BiH in the first reading. We're going to point 10. Proposal for a law on state property of BiH (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! With 19 votes "yes", 13 "against" and no entity-needed majority, so without a vote from the RS, I find there is no agreement. We can vote right now in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now, round two. With 19 votes "yes", 12 "against" and two-thirds "against" from the RS entity, I find that this law has not been adopted, that the milder term I use, that I do not say as, here, is not adopted. We're going to point 11. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment (first reading). So, voting on the bill in the first reading. Here we have a positive report from the Commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) 135 [[no microphone turned on]] It's a positive report. 15 "for", seven "against", without a sufficient majority from the RS. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23397	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23398	I think we're eight, so here, let me vote anyway. So, get ready to vote. 137 Vote now! With 33 votes "yes", without votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the spending of donor funds. Let's go to point 17. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society. So we vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. No consent has been reached. We vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! We vote in the second round. With 27 votes "yes", seven votes "against", and without... and two-thirds of any entity, I agree that we have passed the Act on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society. Moving to point 18. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of MPs Rifat Dolić and Sefer Halilović on the debate on the presentation of BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić in his address at the UN General Assembly in New York and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Let's go, Rifat Dolić. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So we vote first on Mr. Dolić's proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! It didn't work, obviously. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! So we're voting on Rifat Dolić's proposal for a conclusion. "For" 11, "against", there is no general majority, this conclusion by Rifat Dolić was not accepted. Please prepare to make a statement on Sefer Halilović's proposal for conclusion. Vote now! Also, it doesn't have a general majority and it's not adopted. We move on to a statement under b) on the proposal for a conclusion of Remzija Kadrić. So, now, on the proposal for a conclusion of Remzija Kadrić. Prepare to vote. _________(?) 138 A three-minute break, no dating. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23402	Can you give me five minutes of break just to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23403	Mr. Kalabić, really, I'm really sorry, but I really can't take a break in the middle of the vote. I really can't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here's five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23405	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23406	I have Denisa's right to amend the Rules of Procedure at any time as chairman of the break. But here, I'm trying not to part ways, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23407	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23408	It says at any moment, Article 77(3). Here, I said 15 minutes, here. 139 All right, all right. In a way, please remind you, we have in some way reached a conclusion, we have set a vote after the debate, precisely because of these things, that we all gather together, that we are all here. He doesn't want anyone to cheat or vote in a way that someone's gone for a moment, so we better vote faster or better so we can vote something, etc. That's what this is about, Denise. I'm always ready, it's not the first time, I'm always ready to take a break in situations like this, but I need to make sure we don't get into these situations. But here, let's go back now, so it's a statement on the conclusion proposal, so please let's get back to the statement on Mr. Remzija Kadrić's Opinion proposal, so I don't remind you, you know what this is about. Prepare to vote. Vote now! The second round of voting is also the second round of voting. 19 “for, ” we have a general majority and we have two thirds “against. ” Unfortunately, this conclusion has not passed. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Denis Bećirović. Also, in the second round we vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 “for, ” the general majority, two thirds “against. ” Also, this conclusion didn't go through. Moving to the point, yes, a group of conclusions. So three conclusions, three conclusions. I, if you insist, Mr. Bećirović, can do all three.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23410	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23411	Okay. Thank you very much for understanding. Point 19. Information on the enforcement of the law in the field of education adopted at BiH level. We have had the debate and the committee in charge suggests that we take the information to the knowledge, but at the same time we have the conclusions submitted by Azra Alajbegović and Denis Bećirović. So, I suggest we first state that we take the information to the knowledge and then make a statement about the conclusions. Prepare to receive knowledge. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23412	We at the SDP Club suggest first on the conclusions to be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23413	I don't mind, but in any case, we'll receive information to the knowledge that the conclusions make any sense, right? But here, I don't mind. 140 So we're going in a row. We have a proposal for a conclusion by Azra Alajbegović. There are two conclusions, are there three conclusions? Is there any need for me to read them? There isn't. Please make a statement in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 30 votes "for" one vote "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I find the proposed conclusions, three proposed conclusions, MP Azra Alajbegović was adopted. We have a proposal for a conclusion on this agenda point, Denis Bećirović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 25 votes "yes", one vote "against", nine "abstained", without a sufficient entity majority, there is no agreement. We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion by Denis Bećirović. Vote now! With 26 votes "yes", seven "against", without two-thirds "against" from any of the entities, and I find that this conclusion has passed, too, adopted. Moving to point 20. I'm sorry, we still have information to receive. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", without votes "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have received this information to the knowledge. Moving to point 20. Information from the Council of Ministers. We practically have conclusions here, here we have the conclusions of Mr. Niko Lozančić and Denis Bećirović. I suggest we make a statement in order. First, on the proposal for a conclusion from Mr. Niko Lozančić. Prepare to vote! Vote now! I konstatirati that Mr. Lozančić's proposal was unanimously adopted, with enough entity majority. We also have some similar conclusions of Denis Bećirović. He suggests two conclusions per point. I suggest we vote in the package, so to speak, on both conclusions at the same time. If the promoter doesn't mind. 141 Please prepare to vote. Vote now on the proposal for a conclusion by Denis Bećirović. 22 votes "yes", five "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I find these two conclusions also proposed by Denis Bećirović. And we're left with point 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23414	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23415	It won't be possible, Denise, but we'll try. So we're left with point 21. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, (b) Agreement on a grant of the Global Fund for the Environment between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as an Agency for the realisation of the Global Fund for the Environment – Project Management of the Neretva and Trebišnica, (c) European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage (Revised) 1992, (d) Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, Paris on 2 November 2001, (e) International Convention against Doping in Sports, Paris 19 October 2005, (f) Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, Paris, 27 October 2005. I've read this for the record, and I suggest we make a statement in the package on all these conventions, if that's okay with you. [[Common discussion]] You don't agree, let's go, please, let's go in order. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23419	So please, I said in the discussion that I wouldn't support this agreement, now there's no point in Dom making me support this deal because of the other four. So, I want to support these other five.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23420	I think it's a little bit of patience and it's correct to respect this intervention of Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23421	Wait a minute. If Dom decides to vote in the package, I'm asking him to just get on with it, means that those who are against this, to realize that they're against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-21-0.u23422	Please be patient for another five minutes, we'll go to the convention for the sake of correctness. Let's go to the vote. [[Common discussion]] So can we vote this special and the rest in the package? Please, what is it now? So, we vote first on the Global Environment Fund Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Agency for the realisation of the Global Fund for the Environment – Neretva and Trebišnica Management Project. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", three "against", enough entity majority, I agree that we have agreed to ratify this agreement. Now we move on to a statement about everyone else in the package. Do you agree? There's no need to vote. Please prepare, prepare for the vote. Vote now! lazare, where are you gonna stop, sick Lazar? Don't let me bring you back. I'm kidding, I'm kidding, it's okay, it's okay. 143 With 35 votes "yes", without "no" votes, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted these remaining, or have given consent to ratifying the remaining of these agreements, or conventions. Thank you for your cooperation. We're having a plenaran session on Wednesday 28th at 10.00 with the House of Peoples. This is Mr. Lajčak speaking. We've got audit reports behind that. The regular session is February 4th. The seat is closed at 20.20 hours.
