ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5848	I suggest we start working, we have a quorum. Please complete the Bosniak Club. Now we've got quorum, Mr. Rančić's coming in. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, present representatives from the Council of Ministers, the international community and the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 37th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Today's session is attended by 11 colleagues and colleagues, three from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and three from the Serbian people. They justified today's absence of Mr. Šaraba, Mr. Tihić, Dr. Ivanić and Professor Neimarlija. I'll stick to one excuse for a while. I received a personal notice from an esteemed colleague of the Slobodan Šarabe representative who suggests, in an act addressed to my smallness, that it would be good to take a look at all three calendars when the meetings are scheduled and deciding on the date of their maintenance. I checked, today svet Toma, the Orthodox saint, is not a commanding saint, otherwise my colleague Majkić would not have agreed to hold today's session, we are taking care of it. It's a family saint, so the family saint of the Šaraba family, but I respect that too, which is why I gave this reason to justify Mr. Šaraba's absence. I ask the Secretariat to take all three, or all four calendars of all celebrations, all four official religious communities in BiH, that the future College has this in front of it so that it can take care of all the dates of all the BiH confesions. This is the House of People, and we'll respect that. I'm going to the agenda now and I'm proposing that the agenda be agreed for the 37th session. 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and new questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 36th session of the House of Peoples; 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 2 5. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 6. Proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and cooperation with the International Criminal Court (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Defence (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers; 9. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, of 14. Nine. 2009; 12. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Report on the implementation of the 2008 Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant for the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency; Report No 01.02.16-1-100109 of 7. 8. 2009; 14. Report by the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Audit of the Report on the 2008 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions – applicant Office for the Review of the BiH Institution; Report No 01-16-1-108009 of 11. Nine. In 2009; 15. 2008 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, BiH Council of Ministers applicant; Report No 01,02-28-98809 of 27. Seven. 2009; 16. Proposed Rules of Procedure on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's police bodies – Proposed Committee on Citizens' Appeals to the work of police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's police bodies; 17. The programme "Perspective" and Information of the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Joint Head of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the transition and care of staff of the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, with opinions and suggestions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee's conclusions (material No 031-03-57809 of 21. Nine. 2009); 18. Proposal for the conclusion of representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović submitted on 13. Joint session of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 24th Seven. In 2009, with the opinion of the Joint Committee on European Integration; 19. Report by the College Committee on Seeking to reach agreement on the Proposal for the conclusion of the Representatives of Ivo Mire Jović on the appointment of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to present in Brussels conditions for the freedom of the visa system to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Ad hoc Commission of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the implementation of procedures 3 of the selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on a cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a component of cross-border cooperation within the 2008 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA); 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on a cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a component of cross-border cooperation within the 2008 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA); 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on a cross-border programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on the basis of a component of cross-border cooperation within the 2008 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA); 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement – Four Hospital Completion and Equipment Project – between the Saudi Development Fund and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 25. Granting consent to ratify the International Atomic Energy Agency Convention on Nuclear Safety, Vienna, 17 June 1994; 26. Giving consent to ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work, No. 187 from 2006, and Recommendations of the International Labour Organisation on the Promotional Framework for Professional Safety and Health at Work, No. 197 from 2006; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Declaration on strengthening national and regional capacity for preparedness and response to epidemics and implementing the 2005 International Health Regulations; 28. Giving consent to ratifying the International Atomic Energy Agency Code on the security and protection of radioactive sources; 29. Giving consent to ratifying the International Atomic Energy Organisation's amendment to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. I'm opening the debate. Is there a need? I'm closing the debate. The agenda is in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations accepted. We'll move to point one, that's Ad. 1. Answers to MPs' questions and new questions
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5851	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests,... I have asked one, in my opinion, a very important question last time regarding the Jovičić case. This is a question that went to the prosecution: 'How is it that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has not so far asked for the initiation of an investigation against Radoslav Jovičić, although in the explanation of the OHR on his shift he claims to have committed a number of crimes, abuse of positions and powers, corruption, which includes receiving funds in exchange for disclosing classified information, listening without a court order, etc.'? It's a very symptomatic response... delivered by the D.A.'s office. First, it consists of two parts: the first part is communication between the deputy chief prosecutor and the head of Mr. Drew Engel's organized crime department, which is a letter he writes to Milorad Barašin's chief prosecutor. And the second part is the section relating to Mr Barašin's letter to the Parliamentary Assembly. The letter that Mr Barašin writes to the Parliamentary Assembly states: "Dušanka inform you that Radislav Jovičić's face does not go through the BiH Prosecutor's Office's registers." In translation, this means that among the acts that entered the Prosecutor's Office there is nothing that is under the name of Mr. Jovičić. Secondly, it is truly unusual that neither SIPA nor OHR has submitted a letter to an official in which a procedure is required to open an investigation into the case, and that both SIPA and OHR have done nothing. Mr. Jovičić himself sent the D.A.'s personal request asking for processing and asking to investigate his responsibility, because he didn't... do what he wrote there that was done and asked for the initiation of the investigation. If none of these other acts, his act had to go through the D.A.'s register. Even more symptomatic is the memo that Mr. Engel writes to the attorney general and says 'we have prepared for you the next answer to the parliamentary question', then immediately afterwards says 'As far as the question is concerned, I would like to talk to you about it'. He means that's the thing the two of us would need orally, I just don't know what it says here. The letter is, this way of communicating with the D.A. is such that it deserves an exact assessment of what kind of... this letter is. I am not satisfied and repeat the question to the Prosecutor's Office, since neither SIPA nor OHR launched an investigation: 'How is it possible that Mr. Jovičić's letter did not go through the D.A.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5852	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Jović. Here you go. 5 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5853	: I am not, Mr. President – welcoming you, the co-chair and all the distinguished colleagues and present today's session of our home – dissatisfied, but I am sad. I got such an answer to shed a tear. ... In my answer, everything I have asked to be answered when it comes to the completion of investigative works for the death of Hrvat, Uzdol, in the municipality of Window 1993. That's also the prosecutor's finding that it was done that way, but the decision needs to be made by an international prosecutor. Well, since I've known for a year and a half that man won't take it, and the stores are all over, he only finds that this case is under way. But it bothers me more, and why I said so, that this is a sad one letter or answer, which the prosecutor finds to be witnesses and eyewitnesses of taking people away, killing them, very, very, very hard to say, because most often they don't want to testify, or testify that they don't know anything. And I'm saying that the chief culprit is the Court and the D.A. and they're the only culprits. Let's just look at what's been going on lately with the people who are being charged with Bugojno. The moment that those they fired, and they have all the evidence that we understand each other, when I as a citizen have that they won't have, they let the people they're supposed to leave in jail or sentenced for 13 years and walk in Sarajevo, then they say they won't testify. How many Croatian families from Bugojna have moved out of fear of having to testify and not being able to testify, because those who are in the Court, they release them in a few days and then the family must move away. And when I pointed out that problem, it now came to the point of threatening the prosecutor's head. Now, it's changed, the man gets released today, and in two days, he gets sent back to prison for threatening the prosecutor. What we're looking for, that's what we're looking at. And I think that this institution called the Court or the Prosecutor's Office when cases of crime against Hrvat can be characterized by disgrace.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5854	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. We're often moved to tears but I suggest we cry after the session. We'll move on to new questions. I'm asking who wants it. Mr. Koprivica, Mr. Rančić, Ibrahimpašić, Mrs. Čolo, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5855	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome present fellow delegates from the House of Peoples, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, and guests attending today's session. My question concerns the Central Bank of BiH and the Banking Agency of BiH. In fact, the latest analyses show that around 860,000 people were employed in BiH or 33% of the total population. The employment rate was reduced by 0.5% in 2009, the average net salary in BiH in the second quarter of 2009, according to the Statistics Office, was 791 mark. According to some data, credit debt in 2008 per capita in BiH was over... , i.e. about 6.5 billion KM. [[Disable microphone]] These data clearly state the creditworthiness of BiH citizens and their... social status. 6 The issue to the Central Bank of BiH... reads: "Is special measures in banking and credit policy in BiH planned in the next period... decisions that will allow the reprogramming of loans to citizens who lost their jobs due to recession, i.e. legal persons who are in an extremely difficult situation because of credit over-indebtedness and the economic crisis?" Special measures are necessary because it is evident that existing measures are not sufficient to significantly reduce the credit responsibility of natural and legal persons in BiH and improve the social status of BiH citizens. First of all, I mean the harmonisation of interest rates with the EU, the export of excessive profits outside the country, the liquidity of banks in BiH, more favourable loans for new employment, conditions of credit to the economy, the subsidisation of business loans and agricultural credits, and the financing of priority sectors of business and development energy projects, as well as the lending of export-oriented production, and in particular the prevention of banking vegetables on already realised loans, the practice of applying variable interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5856	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5857	...intervention, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5858	For questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5859	Well, I just wanted to ask, we're constantly facing the same problem, asking the technique to give us a tone that we can listen to, that we don't have to hear our ears, and if you turn your head to the other side, you don't hear anything. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5860	Thank you very much. I believe that the tones have heard this remark, and I ask that the microphones be strengthened when the MPs stand up because we step back, and then it's weak for the other MPs and they don't hear what they're saying. Please proceed at the request of Representative Rajić. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5861	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, colleagues from the House of Representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, respected guests, my question today is addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and the Office for Consideration of Appeals: 7 "Does the Office of Review of Appeal have a regulation on the internal organisation as a sublegal act on which to function?" The Board of Appeal, as a second-degree institution, was established to consider complaints in the procurement process. The first members of the Office were appointed at the end of December 2005. The chairman of the Office was obliged to adopt 'Internal Organisation Rules' within two months of the establishment of the Office, with the necessary opinions of the Office for Law, Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers. According to the information I have through the work of the Commission on Finance and Budgets of the House of Peoples, considering the work reports and audit reports relating to the work of the Office, the Office for the Review of Appeals does not yet have 'Internal Organisation Rules'. How is it possible that four years of correspondence between the Office for the Review of Appeals, the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers? Is the Office's work possible without the Internal Organization Rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5862	Thank you very much. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5863	I thank you, Chairman. Hello, everyone who's here. I'll ask two questions to the Council of Ministers. First question: "Why does the Council of Ministers not declare the request of the domestic brewery industry to introduce measures to protect the industry from excessive imports?" An application for protection has been submitted for 8. Nine. 2008 and, at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, complemented in September of this year. And the second question is, "Why is the rule on the quality of natural spring and natural mineral waters still not adopted?" You remember here that on my insistence somewhere in April, May this year, that rule was made, a public debate was held, even in line with the producers, here he is still not adopted. I'm not going to talk now, when it's about agriculture, how destructive it is, after all, and the safety of these people's health, not to mention the business of the business of the business of the business operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5864	Thank you very much. Mrs. Master Čolo. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5865	Thank you, Chairman. I have one question and one initiative for the BiH presidency. The latest report by the European Commission on BiH's 2009 progress on page 16 noted that BiH has again failed to elect its representative to the Council of Europe's Committee for Tortre and Inhuman and Humiliative Treatment. It is a committee called the CPT Committee for short term and is one of the most important committees of the Council of Europe. BiH is a member of the Council of Europe Convention on torture and is subject as a member of this Convention to regular monitoring by this Committee. CPT published 14. Ten. In 2009, the latest BiH report, following a fourth visit made by members of this committee in May this year, and the report contains a series of recommendations, comments and requests for information from BiH and confirms the disastrous situation in prisons in BiH. Given the importance of this committee in establishing the rule of law in each Member State of the Council of Europe, I ask the BiH Presidency: 'When will it nominate three candidates to elect BiH representatives in the CPT, in accordance with Council of Europe Resolution 1540, which regulates the selection procedure for the CPT members?' I also become a question: "When will the BiH Presidency nominate a member of the Venice Commission in front of BiH, since the current member of the mandate expired four years ago and that he is still on the Venice Commission's website as a member in front of BiH, and the man is 74 years old?" I'm also giving one... I'm putting up with one initiative. Because the judge of the European Court of Human Rights of BiH, Mrs Ljiljana Mijović, stands 27. The following year, and according to Council of Europe Resolution 1646, which was adopted in January of this year, a procedure for nominating elections and taking over the mandate of the European Court of Human Rights. Under this resolution, the procedure lasts about 12 months, three months of nomination by the state, three months of procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and six months of taking office by the judge, so I submit an initiative to the BiH presidency to urgently initiate the procedure for nominating candidates for the European Court of Human Rights Judge in front of BiH. Otherwise, BiH will remain without this position in the most important international human rights institution in Europe. The Council of Europe has met the criteria for selecting a judge and is no longer an informal procedure. The procedure is prescribed by this resolution: we must go to public advertising, we must go to public advertising and for this Committee to prevent torture, and I think that we as a country show complete disrespect for international resolutions when it comes to the appointment of our representatives to international bodies. And that, I think, is an unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5866	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. So try to remove the tones of this microphone and at the same time you can't hear it in the hall. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5867	So, first question I said earlier, but I'm going to repeat it for a stenogram. So, the question which is the result of the poor or unquality response I received, which is: if the name Radislav Jovičić has not already passed through the BiH Prosecutor's Office's registers, according to the chief prosecutor's claim, the number: A639/09 out of 15. Ten. In 2009, I ask my chief prosecutor to answer the following question: "Did Mr. Radislav Jovičić's personal request have been made through the D.A.'s register requesting his processing for the reasons set out in OHR's decision on his shift?" I beg your answer on the written path. So that's the question that comes from the answer I got. The second is the third emergency response. So, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in session of 29. 1. In 2009, it unanimously concluded that the Ministry of Transport and Communications was asked to submit within 15 days to the House of Peoples full of information on criteria, procedures and how to distribute CEMT licences to domestic carriers. The information should include the number and the reason for the complaint of the carrier, as well as the proceedings pending. The first emergency for the delivery of that information came in April of this year but ran out of answers. The second emergency ensued 13. Seven this year and she's lost her answer. 'As it has been... almost nine months since the adoption of the House's conclusion, I ask the Prime Minister's Council to allow me, through the Ministry of Transport and Communications, full information on the criteria, procedures and method of distribution of CEMT permits for 2009 to domestic carriers.' So, it's really terrible that the three emergencyes I have to send, it's fortunate that in the meantime, what wasn't the strength of this home, the House of Representatives formed an investigative commission and that we'll get information about why it happened. And one question addressed to the Directorate for indirect taxation. I ask the Directorate for indirect taxation to answer the following question: "Why has no space for customs offices in Skelani and Bratunac been built and brought to this day, at the border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Serbia?" Reason: The BiH Direct Taxation Authority announced the opening of a border crossing between BiH and the Republic of Serbia in Bratunc and Skelani in May this year. However, as is known, the expected start of goods traffic and the transfer of freight vehicles between the two countries has not fully recovered until today. Except for the seasonal transport of strawberry fruit to individual producers who have a place of residence in one country and own a country in another, nothing has been done anymore. The announced official approval of the start of goods traffic at these crossings by the Ministry of Security, the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Resoring Ministry of the Republic of Serbia has not arrived yet. Also, there's no customs duties, there's no shipping, there's not a single authorised freighter's house to carry out customs procedures. Businesses and citizens of Bratunca, Srebrenica and Skelana have long awaited the opening of the crossing for freight traffic, because otherwise goods must drive to Karakai more than 100 km away, in order to have 10 transported to the Republic of Serbia or imported from Baja's Basta or Love with which they are divided by only the border bridge. Farmers from the skeletal area are forced to come in 50 km from Srebrenica because of the inability to cross freight vehicles and tractors across the border bridge in Skelani to pour fuel for tractors and other machines, because there is the nearest gas station. I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5868	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić, please. Mr. Rajić asked for a word for a question. That was an observation to the sound, ton. Is there anyone else who wants to ask a question? So the list is exhausted, I'm concluding this agenda point. Moving to point two, that's "Ad." 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 36th session of the House of Peoples Before that, I'll just say that our work is being followed, I noticed, a member of Mr. Belkić's House of Representatives College, Minister Čolak came, I welcome them. I'm opening a debate on the 36th session. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement for the 36th session. Who's in favor of a motion like this this record? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 36th session minutes in the proposed form. Point 3 is Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5872	Just for a reminder. So Article 121 (1) says: 'When the bill is submitted, the proposer may request that the bill be considered in a shortened procedure. In that case, the proposer is obliged to specifically explain the reasons justifying the shortened procedure." I couldn't find, I don't know maybe I didn't make it, but please look, there's no reason why you're looking for a shortened procedure here. And I suggest that this be considered in a regular procedure, because I don't see why any of this, and this next law, would be considered by a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5873	I ask my distinguished colleague, Mr. Belkić, to answer the question and to give a brief explanation that led you to follow a brief procedure and to have the motion from the House of Representatives come as it came. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5874	Here, I welcome you all. I don't know if you can hear me. Well, Mrs. Majkić surprised me a little bit. To tell you the truth, I came here today as a member of the House of Representatives College respecting this home and knowing the practice of practically not being considered if one of the promoters isn't here, right? The initiators, i.e. the legislators of this bill, are members of a group, or an investigative commission that has been dealing with, and has been trying for several months to obtain information related to the total donations spent in BiH since the end of the war. And through practice, i.e. trying to get some information, they have encountered some obstacles to obtaining this information that are, in some ways, caused by solutions in the existing Freedom of Information Act. Therefore, the reason for the shortened procedure could be, therefore, the acceleration of their work. Now, if that's 12 this house is reason enough for a brief procedure, you'll decide for yourself. It is therefore an initiative of the members of the Investigation Commission and the difficulties they have in trying to obtain relevant data from some institutions. So they're trying to shorten time and access that information with these changes and additions that they've initiated. ... The House of Representatives, as I say, has respected this initiative, including the request for a brief procedure, but here it is up to you to evaluate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5875	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Here, she needs another Mrs. Majkić, and then she'll get the word Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5876	I really think you should have so much respect for this home that when the data you've just said here is really data worth paying attention to, but do you think, since you first formed a commission by the House of Representatives only, so don't be surprised that the House of Peoples doesn't know about the details and it would be logical for someone to write a few sentences in this accompanying act and say, my people, here we need this law for that and that. So don't be surprised, because there's nothing written here, and we know that this law was recently in the process. This required an additional reason to explain it better. Don't send here expecting that we have to assume what's going on at the House of Representatives, no matter how much we watch out for it. So, please treat the second home with due attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5877	Mr. Belkić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5878	I ask you not to consider this re-emergence of me in any way as a kind of replica to Mrs. Majkić. I was pretty clear when I went out and tried to explain, and I don't know that any word was in the direction of disrespect for this house. And I really don't know what that is that makes you feel that the House of Representatives doesn't respect this home. So I'd be begging you really if you didn't get that impression. I tried to explain, and in the end I said to you, evaluate. If you think this doesn't deserve a brief procedure, go to the regular procedure and it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5879	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Rančić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5880	Thank you very much. So, me as a delegate and the Bosniak Club will also support a shortened procedure as well as the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH. Why? Perhaps part of her colleague Majkić is right to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure where he stands and says that this is especially to be explained. Of course that's what's in the Rules of Procedure, but if we consider this whole state of affairs around this law, we'll see that, in reason of the law's passing, this law has been applied for nine years and by analysis, here, the people who have dealt with it, say we don't have satisfactory results in the application of this law. And one of the reasons why we do not have satisfactory results is because there are no sanctions in that law for those who will not implement any or inadequate law. Well, in order to meet that condition, therefore, it has been changed and complemented in a way that introduces fines for offences and for competent authorities, as well as for individuals, responsible persons in the public authority. The second reason we're going to support the procedure and this law is to try to amend this law in this way, in an identical way, we had a few months ago and unfortunately we failed. So, this didn't fall to all of us out of the blue right now so we don't know that it's some kind of enormous reduction procedure. We've had an attempt to pass this law in this way, unfortunately, not get the necessary majority. The third reason, you see in reason, too, is that in neighbouring countries we have sanctions in the same or similar laws, so I don't see why we shouldn't do the same thing. And finally, cutting deadlines by supporting this procedure does not question our work at home, possibly, the submission of amendments, etc. It's about cutting deadlines in half, and we could all still, eventually, work in the competent authorities and, eventually, if we wanted to, submit amendments. This is not an emergency procedure where we would be taken away or rejected immediately. So I think that these reasons are enough for all of us if we want to apply this law, efficiency in work, responsibility in the work of institutions and individuals, then we will support both the procedure and only the adoption of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5881	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5882	Well, I'd just like a little bit. I think the terms of Article 121 have been met. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples because the proposing representative orally explained the reasons why he felt that the law should be adopted in a shortened procedure so that I don't think there's any interference that we today decide to consider the law under the reduced procedure 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5883	I'll just say one personal thought. I don't see anything controversial in this proposal or in this procedure as requested, so it's a brief procedure. We even have time to act as an amendment, because it is only a matter of imposing criminal sanctions on those public bodies that do not do their jobs and will motivate them to implement practically this law by accepting these criminal sanctions for a violation. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5884	Okay, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, all the guests, I don't know, are absolutely enough for me here in the signing of our colleague from the House of Representatives, simply, as members of the commission that deals with certain actions, have a need or have a simple right, even an institutional right to information. And that fundamental and institutional right seems to have been denied. And that's why I don't see it. I really don't see any reason why we're polymizing about the form today, because today we don't plead or talk about the law. The validity or invalidity of the amendments and the addition of this law, we will also talk about it in a hasty procedure and declare ourselves. And I think we should accept this initiative today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5885	Thank you very much, so just procedure. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. Today, we only declare this whether or not we accept the proposed procedure, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to make that clear. So on the proposal, on the request of the House of Representatives. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the shortened procedure under Article 121 in point 4 of our agenda. Point 5 is also: Ad. 5. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Official Journal of BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples I'm opening the debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make this request known to the House of Representatives under paragraph 5 for the shortened procedure of that law. 15 Who Is “For ”? I agree that we have unanimously accepted the shortened procedure for the bill in paragraph 5 of our agenda. Point 6 is: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and cooperation with the International Criminal Court (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5889	: Short, though everything in our report from the session of the Constitutional Commission writes. We had, as a commission, two amendments of which one amendment was adopted, and this amendment I, which suggests that Article 1 of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman be deleted, was not adopted because the amendment and supplementation of the Law did not comply with the proposal of this amendment. That was the basis why we were reserved for making a decision in that sense. And it was unanimous. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5890	Thank you very much. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5891	I think it was unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5892	Thank you very much. It is my duty to give my word to the proposer of this amendment to Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5893	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, after this law on amendments and additions to the Law on BiH's Defence was discussed in our first reading and after the amendment phase was opened, I followed the work, of course, in the House of Representatives and how the law passed and therefore I was informed that they had adopted this law in the House of Representatives and these two amendments that I have proposed. So, following the work of both the House of Representatives and wanting to adopt the same text of the Law in the House of Nations, I decided to submit those amendments adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives. And it also stood in the light of these amendments. So I'm not the author, I'm just trying to ease the procedure for us in the House of Peoples and on our Constitutional Commission. Unfortunately, on the constitutional committee of the House of Nations our committee has not adopted this amendment I and I have decided to renew to defend this amendment, I will later state why I decided to do so. It is true and I am sorry what counterpart Ivo Miro Jović said, chairing our Constitutional Commission, and I had information from others, that the representative of the Ministry of Justice was at that session, so it seems to me that the delegates and members of the Constitutional Legal Commission had been a little deceived, because he told them that the Ministry of Justice was not in agreement with the proposed amendment, which is simply not true, because the representative of the Justice Ministry at the Constitutional Court of Justice was in agreement with the above-mentioned amendments. Namely, out of several MPs and more amendments were proposed and only those amendments that were agreed with a representative of the resolution ministry at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives were adopted. These harmonised amendments, agreed by the Ministry's representative, have been renewed. Then came the Assistant Minister – for the first time he was deputy minister when he agreed to the amendments – at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Nations... and informed members of the People's House that the Ministry did not stand, did not accept the amendment and he, unfortunately, was not adopted on this committee. It seems to me that this is the view of the Justice Minister's assistant, the Constitutional Commission, because they have different attitudes and different levels, so there was a deputy there, so he said he accepted it, and here he was an assistant and said he didn't accept it. And what is being solved by this Article of the 1st Law, or by Article 1 of my amendment (conditionally mine, here I defend it, I said that I am not the author). In this regard, in Article 1 of the basic text of the law, the legislator of this law wishes to delete the assistant attorneys as persons who, together with the 17 Advocates and Deputy Advocates, are acting as defence attorneys. I'll just remind you, the defence function is the protection of property, the interests of BiH's property rights. The Pravobranilac has the capacity to protect these interests from courts and all other competent authorities, in a way that represents the interests of BiH and all its institutions. So, when you have to go to court in some property law, in a dispute... and the D.A. can go, can the deputy and can be the assistant attorney. And they've done it before. They now want to delete them from the law in a way that they do not perform the defence function, but that only the defense attorney and the deputies do so. Why isn't that true? Why do I insist on this amendment? In the light of the law, two points are, therefore, in the reasons set out in the second paragraph, in the third paragraph, the reason for erasing these words from the law, i.e. the advocacy of the Advocate General in the exercise of the Attorney General's office, states that the office of the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General. So, in the light of the law, the proposer says that the function is done by the Advocate and Deputy, which is not true. Under the current law, here at this time, that function is performed by the assistant attorneys. As long as this is not deleted, that is, until the law is passed, published and entered into force, that function shall be performed and assisted by the Advocates. It can't be explained that the pravobranilaštvo's office is not done by assistants, because it's a violation of the law. The law is still in force. That's their first argument. The second argument – their number, therefore, is not precise. That's their reason to erase them, which is not true. First, when their number isn't precise, it's, if I were there in that body, it would suit me. Why? Because then their number is determined through the Regulation on Organisation and Systematisation, which will come from the Ombudsman's Office, the Legislative Office, the Resorship Ministry and the Council of Ministers, and can, in addition to the scope of the Regulation's work, be regulated by a lower sublegal act, by the number of Advocates. Because if the law says five, then when there's a jobload that needs to be eight, it has to be changed. If that is not laid down in the law, then the number of assistant attorneys shall be disposed of through the Systematization Regulation. So the second argument that their number has not been determined in the law is not the reason to delete them from the law. And that is all stated in this reasoning of the law. Third thing. Are the current defense attorney's assistants in office? Of course. Whenever they get the case from the attorneys and his deputies and represent him in court or in front of other competent institutions and bodies, they do the job, and so is the law. If we delete them from the law, will they again serve as attorneys? Well, of course, the defence attorney and deputy of the same people will again, only not be called assistants, sent back to court or to other institutions to defend BiH's property interests. If they want to delete them from the law or want to degrade them, and it seems to me that this is the purpose, because the last time I asked questions about the Attorney's Office whether they work in the College, they're discussing issues, they're even saying (we had a letter, we all got) that they didn't have this law, that they didn't show up about it, etc., why and in the existing law, which is in force, here in the law on amendments and additions as a condition for doing these jobs is required for the heads of law school, I don't know, by running jobs, passed a judicial exam, and eight or five years of work after a legal examination. So, if you want to turn them into officers, you're only looking for high-end professional equipment, I don't know, law school and the end of the story. And let them be officials and then they will never be able to go to court or before other institutions to defend BiH's property interests. And such cases must be a large number or a huge number, and I'm sure 18 defense attorneys and deputies can't make it to all these discussions, I can't make it. It is indisputable that more people should do this job. And then your argument and proposal for Articles 1 and 2 of the Law is contrary. Because you in Article 1 want to eliminate them from performing this defensive function, and then in Article 2, you say in addition that it takes five years after a judicial examination. It's not enough legal exam, it's five more years of work after a judicial trial. So why would he need a judicial exam if he didn't represent BiH's interests, right, and not defend them? And we know why, we rightly know it's a test that is needed to represent both the court and the prosecution both for the attorney's office and the D.A.'s office. So, here are my reasons why I still decided to defend this amendment from my colleagues and to ask my respected colleagues and colleagues to accept the amandman I. which deletes Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Defence, with which the lawyers wish to delete themselves from the law, is set out under the quotes, as persons who perform the Attorney General's office, and here I am asking the Honorable Minister of Čolak to declare himself and agree with this argument and accept this amendment, because this would now be an additional third of your statement from this ministry. I repeat, at the House of Representatives, there is a representative at the Constitutional Legal Commission, I think that the Deputy Minister there was, I'm not sure, agreed and accepted, and then the assistant came to the House of Peoples meeting and said that he was the chairman and told them that you were not behind it and that is the only reason they did not accept this amendment. Here, thank you very much and please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5894	Before... let me be allowed, so from the scene, to make only one little comment on what we heard from Mr. Rančić. In the law, it is true that the number of executors of all members of the Advocate's Office are not specified, but by the Attorney pravobraniteljstvo's rule which was confirmed by the Council of Ministers has defined the number of perpetrators for each job in the D.A.'s office and the number of nine defined, so the nine assistant attorneys are defined by the rules. Now, let's think about whether or not we're going to release your amendment that didn't go through on the Constitutional Commission. Personally, as far as I'm concerned, it's quite enough that it's the Attorney General and his two deputies. I will exhaust, therefore, the candidates reported, the representatives for the debate on this amendment, and then I will ask Mr. Minister Čolak to give us his court, therefore the relevant ministry, concerning this matter. It is not always necessary for identical amendments to be accepted in both homes, the House of Representatives. We are the House with full legislative capacity. Until someone takes it away from us, we use our rights. Mr. Koprivica, here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5895	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I was justifiably prevented from attending this session, and I would not specifically comment on this report that we have ahead of us. When it comes to the 19th Law on BiH's Defence, all I can say is that all the arguments we had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Rančić, legally speaking, can indeed be fully accepted. I am only interested in what it is about the position and opinion of the representatives of the Ministry of Justice at the very session of the Constitutional Commission, which the arguments were deciding in this sense to give such a position and explanation, so I would suggest that we hear the opinion of the Minister before we finally plead in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5896	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5897	Mr. Chairman, I've tried to break into the explanation of my colleague, Rančić, and after everything he's said, I'm not convinced that I should support his amendment for two reasons. The first is: I have not heard and I am not aware that this analogy of being dragged into the same level of responsibility of assistants with ministers, i.e. the heads of BiH institutions and their deputies, is the practice or principle applied to others. I don't think so. That's the first reason. And the second reason is, it's not a sacred letter and it's not written anywhere that we have to adopt the law in both homes in the same text. That's why there are prescribed forms of consent. I personally think that we should respect this, primarily the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of this House, with all respect to the pawning and reasoning of counterpart Rančić and what Mr. Čolak will say. I personally think that this amendment should be refused and should not give the assistants the status of a managing person in a state institution... neither here nor in any other case.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5898	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5899	Not to forget, what Mr. Rančić mentioned is why they need an expert exam, why it takes them five years, so they do, they process the cases, but the second question is the preparation of the case, professional processing, the second is representation of the institutions of the judicial authorities and others. It's not the same and I don't want it to be the same. If we are to drag the assistants into that rank, then we will drag into all BiH institutions that the assistants are equal to the first person and his deputies, which would not be principled.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5900	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the counsel? No, I don't. Mr. Rančić. Here you go, Mr. Rančić. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5901	I apologize, before the minister pleads, if he wishes, if he will receive his word; so absolutely all I have said is neither my intention nor my desire to equalise the defender, his deputies and his assistants. No, Bog forbid. That's three levels, one, two, three. I get that, too. And I have no doubt that the D.A. is run by the D.A.'s attorney, and here's his deputies, it's known when, how, what, both in the College and in their office, and that this function and that role are not represented by the defense attorneys, no, the assistant attorneys. What I insist on, here is a question for all of us: Do these people, these nine people, by name and last name, or can be quite new nine people – so in general, believe me that I don't know any of them, I know the attorney and I think they're deputies, and I don't know any of those other people down there – do they essentially do the defense function? Let me make it simple. Before this law is passed, under the current law they get the case from the lawyers x, y, some number, and say go ahead and go to court and represent the state, its property, property rights and property interests. By representing the court and other competent institutions, he is serving as a defence attorney, not as a substitute for the defence attorney and deputies, but as a matter of fact, he is doing the job. When we delete it in the law, so they no longer serve as a defense officer but only a lawyer and two deputies, will they go to court again? Of course he will. And are they doing a defense function? They don't work. That's not right, that doesn't make sense, that doesn't make sense. So if we're looking for conditions that they have these and such, then they're doing that function, because simply a lawyer and two deputies, if they're the only ones doing the defense function, which they want to achieve in the law, there's no way they're gonna get all those cases. Why would they go to court later if they didn't do the defense? They're not authorized to do this. They're authorized to do it. They're authorized to do it. Here, if you're willing to protect our state and property interests, that's all three of them, and I'm responsible for saying I can't, here it is, but I'm not sure I can do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5902	She'll go under the authority of the D.A.'s attorney. Minister Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5903	Why would he go when he doesn't perform that function, he won't do that, so why would he go? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5904	So let him go home.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5905	Mr. President, the esteemed envoys, well, here I am, above all, going to say I'm sorry there's been some discussion. I have to be honest and admit I didn't even know that. But what it says here, however, was the Ministry's intensity. Why separate the function of what the esteemed envoy Rančić asks? For the simple reason it's in all other laws like that. It's not possible for lawyers, their deputies and assistants to be in the same rank. You know, in fact, in the Attorney General's office, every number of months, there's been a rotation of attorneys and his deputies. So they're basically the same only attorney for one 21 time, after which he's deputy attorney. This does not mean that the assistant attorneys will not continue to represent. Of course it will. He'll get the authority and he'll go represent. So here's what this is about, and we think that, because of harmonisation and with other regulations, simply giving a particular meaning to the attorney and his deputies, we just thought it was okay to propose a solution like this. So we don't think, in any sense, that the Attorney General should continue, because of this provision, to suffer. However, so the assistants will still go, they will be given the authority for a specific subject, and I really don't think that starting out is the office to be exactly the same position. Here, this would be the shortest possible explanation. If you can appreciate that, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5906	Thank you very much, Minister Čolak. Is there anyone else in need? I'm closing the debate. We also heard the point of view of the restoring ministry. I am putting on the statement of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence, but before that we will declare this amendment to Mr. Rančić. Who is "for" this amendment by Mr. Rančić? Three. ‘Non’? Six. The amendment did not receive the necessary support. Now, please, let's be clear about this bill in the text that we got. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the text proposal in the proposal we received. We are now going to have to appoint a Commission for text alignment, because it is in a different form of this law. This law was adopted in a different text in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. I'm asking the president of the Bošnjak klub to name it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5907	Mr. Neimarlija Hilmo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5908	He's gone, I believe you made a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5909	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5910	Professor Neimarlija. The Hrvat club, please. Branko, I'd like a proposal from the Croatian Club. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5911	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5912	Mr. Jović. And the Serbian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5913	Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5914	I find the proposals: Professor Neimarlija, Mr Jović and Mr Koprivica. Who is "for" this proposal by the Committee for Text Consensation? I agree that we have unanimously accepted the proposed committee to bring the different text of this law into line. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've reached the Committee's report. ... So, our commission, and I must say, has adopted the bill of six amendments, and the House of Representatives has accepted four amendments. Is there a need for the chairman of the Chamber of Masters, Cholo? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5916	Well, I don't know if there's any need. The four amendments are identical to those adopted in the House of Representatives, but amandman I. and amandman II.. are amendments proposed by Mr Božo Rajić. He suggested otherwise five amendments, only these two amendments have passed, and I think they clarify the provisions that are otherwise contained in the law. amandman I. explains that the free zone is located in a maritime or river port, and amandman II.. is in fact a linguistic character, because it was properly applied to the provisions of the law, and this is a certain correction: the relevant provisions of the law apply, which I think is more language and legal-technically correct, so I think it would be good to adopt all six amendments together with the Commission report, because they have become an integral part of the text of the law and to form a Commission for the alignment of the text of the law. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5917	Thank you very much. Is anyone looking for a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill, with six amendments accepted on the Committee. Who's "for"? I find that we have unanimously accepted. The law is in a different form than the House of Representatives. I'd like to ask Mr. Rančić again for one name.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5918	Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5919	Mrs. Čolo. Mr. Zno, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5920	Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5921	Have you talked to him before? Božo? _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Yes, yes, Božo Ljubić. He agreed to go inside. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5924	Mr. Slobodan Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5925	Mr. Šaraba. 24 You heard, therefore, Mrs. Čolo, Dr. Božo Ljubić and Šaraba. It's a committee that would go for a match. Who's "for" this proposal. Please make a statement. I agree that we unanimously accepted this composition of our commission. Moving to point 9, that's "Ad." Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport in BiH (second reading) – Proposer: House of Representatives The commission accepted the proposal for a law with five amendments that became an integral part of the text and I, please, see Mr Jović if he has a need. Do you have a need? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5927	I don't need to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5928	You don't have to. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Alma Čolo. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5929	Well, I, the chairman, would really not like my discussion to challenge certain debates in this house, but here I just have to remind myself, the Commission has adopted five amendments and the word County/Canton is mentioned in each amendment. I don't mind, the Federation Constitution really puts sport in the exclusive jurisdiction of the canton and there's no word from the sport, but if we put sport in an activity relating to culture, then it's unequivocally in the exclusive jurisdiction of the canton. However, I must remind you that in 1999, the Federation Constitutional Court made a decision by which the mayor and county term was not in line with the Federation of BiH Constitution. Believe me, I personally have nothing against the words of the county, but here we have the Constitutional Court's decision and can we correct this, while we have such a decision of the Constitutional Court, that it is not the word of the county, but that the canton stands and that we would vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5930	Mr. Jović. Here you go. 25 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5931	Well, I have no intention of polluting either, but here's the thing, if my tongue gets ripped out, I'll think about it again. And I can rip out my tongue, but I'll think about it. So I'd like to order, and by this handsome, the Federation Constitutional Court has defined itself in two cases, and here there are 10 counties. There are 10 counties in the Federation, and the Constitutional Court has been committed only in two cases.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5932	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5933	No matter what Mrs. Čolo said she had no intention of causing a reaction, she challenged them, and I think she was aware of that, when she went with this debate, that she would cause reactions. I remember a little more than this house and this Parliament. I was a representative at the Federation of BiH Constitutional Assembly when the Federation Parliament was established after the signing of the Washington Agreement and then the Constitution of the Federation of BiH defined bilingual names for cantons: canton, county. And so we served for years, so that, at one point, the Constitutional Court, by the methodology of revote that we know well in BiH and the Federation, would do what it did. And he's right, you can rip out our tongue, but we'll think about it when we die. So for me, the county remains, no matter what the Constitutional Court decides. Whoever wants to use the foreign word, the French canton, let them use it, I have nothing against it, but it would really be correct to leave us alone once for the right to language.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5934	I will make a small comment – thank you very much, Mr. Rajić – so from the scene. First I would warn Mrs. Čolo, she is a lawyer and she will understand this warning, which is that the amendments were adopted with the name County and, practically, it is your remark, the amendment to the amendments that have passed in the Committee. This is not practically possible because no amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been tabled in a timely manner. That's the first thing. The second thing, more important than this first thing, is that we should not open here now a debate on literary language policy in BiH, which is always an unfinished story in this country, and there is something called the literary language standards of the Croatian people in BiH and in the Croatian Corps, and these standards will always remain, as colleagues, our standards, and our behaviors, and our expressions, and our proposals, etc. So nobody can take that away from us and don't even try, at least it's not a place in the House of Peoples to open the first debate on this subject and there's been an objection to why we're called delegates and envoys, because that's how someone translated the Constitution that we've never seen in the original in this country. The literary language standard in Hrvat who work in representative, representative, elected indirect and indirect bodies is represented by the people and sits in certain benches. And there's always a representative with us and, follow, I use a word for all of us here while I preside, MPs. I don't mean to challenge everyone's right to call it an MP, an envoy, a delegate, whatever he wants, but that's what I'm saying. 26 So I think that this amendment, which Mrs. Čolo has now made, is a good intention but is too late for the intention and I ask that we no longer hold a debate on the language policy of any people, because this is not the agenda. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5935	Well, I don't know, here's enough said, at the same level, I just thought I'd say a few words because I came from a county where they didn't just take the right to be a county, but they took her name and last name. So that's possible. And it's embarrassing, come on, I'm not going to say it's embarrassing, but it's kind of weird that the Constitutional Court of a country deals with what's called a language, what's called a culture, what's called, in the end I'm a little bit concerned about, that it's a matter of vital interest, because we're not the ones who are going to say what is vital interest, but it's the Constitutional Court. Are these really constitutional jurisdiction? If they are, then they are... violation of constitutional rights and individual and collectiveity in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5936	Thank you very much. I'm not closing the debate. I'm asking if there's anyone else to speak of. I'm closing the debate now. I'd like to make a statement about the bill. Who's "for" the bill? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that with 10 votes "for" and one "abstained" vote, we have adopted the bill, with five amendments adopted on the committee responsible. So these two texts are different in two homes, so I'm asking you to appoint a committee. Please, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Rančić, suggest your person from your club to comply with the text of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5937	Mr. Neimrlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5938	Professor Neimarlija again. Please, the Hrvat Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5939	Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5940	Mr. Jović. 27 And the klub of Srbin?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5941	Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5942	We heard the suggestion: Professor Neimarlija, Mr Jović and Mr Koprivica. Who is "for" this proposal from our committee for reconciliation? I agree that we unanimously accepted this committee to comply with the different text of this law under the point of our 9th agenda. Point 10 is Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH So we're talking about principles. You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The commission accepted the principles of this law, and the House of Representatives accepted this bill in the first reading. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this bill under item 10 in the first reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act in the first reading. Point 11 is: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, of 14. Nine. 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5946	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am aware that we are talking about the principles of this law and before I say anything that would fall within the area of critical observation of the principle which contains the proposal for this law, I will say that I support the principle of commitment to access the establishment of this agency that will deal with these tasks as stipulated in the law. However, I cannot help but notice that, not only in the case of this law but also in some others that we have had the opportunity to see here at parliamentary homes, a fundamental principle is abandoned in the making of laws in this country that reflects its constitutional structure and the equality of the people. That is why three or four of these laps can be observed in the decisions of this law, whether intentional or accidental, in which it is said that 'the Agency is managed by the Director and has a deputy'. So, in one - one, and in all other institutions there are going to be... It is further said that there is no seat, which is again one of the primary political issues. And, among other things, there are other provisions that say that jurisdiction determines that the existing authorities of the administration, whether they are in charge of certain tasks in this field of work of the Agency, or that new ones are planned – are formed in entities, in Brcko District and the position of the constitutional category, county is once again skipped. So, I warn of a non-principled approach in which one or another attempts to leave the principle of equality and the constitution of BiH institutions on the principles that there are three parity, the relationship of three parity beings of this country, these are three constituent peoples in BiH. So here you can intervene on this, you can act in the amendment phase, but I'm warning you of one method, one psychology that goes on and on and on and on. I usually support, no matter what I've noticed, I support the adoption of the Agency's proposal to put it into service as soon as possible. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5947	Thank you very much. I will only add that this agency, in this law in Article 6, corresponds to the Parliamentary Assembly. And then we can't just leave power to one home. Someone forgot when they wrote this bill that this was a two-man parliament. Who wants another word? Belkić, you don't have to laugh, that's true, so that's reality. Of course, I believe you're laughing at those who forgot. You don't have to laugh you can show your mood out loud if you're in a mood for something I said. I'm just repeating something that says in the Constitution. Who wants a word, please? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5948	So, of course, this is one of the last activities that the Council of Ministers was supposed to do and here we were waiting to prepare... that after the signing of the UN Convention on Combating Corruption in 2005, and its ratification in 2006, here we come to a law that would ultimately represent one of the key things about visa liberalisation. So here's for sure the Council of Ministers under considerable pressure had to work quickly on this law to meet the remaining obligations, but it is necessary to really highlight a few of the things that have been underlined here. The first thing is related to the status of the Agency which is an independent and independent administrative organisation that corresponds to the Parliamentary Assembly for its work. Indeed, it is not clear, so when the Parliamentary Assembly is said, I really thought that it always refers to two homes, so that Article 17 said that the Agency's selection and monitoring committee consisted of seven members, three representatives from the House of Representatives, two representatives from the academic community, one representative from the NGO sector and one representative from the ranks of prominent citizens. So, I don't really know if this has become already, the constitutional change has been made, so the Parliamentary Assembly is reduced to only one home, because in one case, if it is said about the Agency's status that it is responsible for the Parliamentary Assembly, then it is really not clear how it is responsible only the House of Representatives and this is indeed unusual, whether it is inconsistencies or whether someone has been consciously or unconsciously wronged, it remains to be seen and to act in the amendment phase. What is still significant is the work of the Agency. So "The Agency is responsible for preventing corruption and coordinating the fight against corruption among all holders of functions in the legislative, executive and judicial authorities at all levels." So we haven't had one law so explicitly solved all levels of government so far. Secondly, 'for public officials, employees and police officers in the institutions of government at all levels, members of administrations of authorised and other persons in companies, public enterprises, public institutions and private enterprises', here are therefore private enterprises, 'and authorised persons in cultural and sports institutions, foundations, associations and NGOs'. So I'm really pleased, this Article 9 that regulates the Agency's work cycle is a comprehensive and practical solution to corruption at all levels. 30 When it comes to the objectives of setting up the Agency, they are also well done and what is the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent proposer here put us... in the form of the proposal of this law, it is for the first time we will have to deal with the way so far in BiH which has, as is known, a highly honored 92nd place on the corruption scale, of 180 countries, which will force us to think in a comprehensive way about this concept and the monsters of the modern era – therefore the causes of corruption. I think even if we had a round table or a public debate now, we would have very different opinions on what causes corruption. Another thing, deterring persons from committing crimes in connection with corruption. So far, there is really not a single measure of stimulant in BiH that would say that anyone who does so will be sanctioned – insurance and improvement of the legal framework for the prevention of corruption. So please, we have audit reports that we've been adopting for years, and in which, the institution that's been doing it, so the Office of Audit never in any segment has given notice that there's something that might be considered to be the work of corruption. And I believe they've come across things like that. The issue of opinion is still the problem in this country. Civil society in the prevention of corruption? Therefore, it is known that civil society in this country is still in the process, regardless of what the international community has given great money in its development. But the fact is also that pointing a finger to corruption is also at the beginning and there is no need for courage at this point in order to prove the acts of corruption. In the end, the real question... of how much the public will and can and how much knowledge it has to be involved in these processes that, as it is known, are not freed from other countries either. Countries with high tradition are struggling with corruption issues in the same way, only with greater efficiency and more efficiency than the country does in transition. So I believe that this law will contribute to transparency and responsibilities of working in BiH institutions and that is why I think we should all support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5949	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5950	: I will continue in this spirit which we have heard so far and refers to the concept of Parliament and its constituents. It has already been said here about Article 17 and paragraph (2), the Commission says, 'The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. This committee shall have the task of receiving a report on the work of this agency. In accordance with Article 13 of the Financial Regulation, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of the Financial Regulation. 'Agreeders of the Agency shall be appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly,' as the House of Peoples will say. We will have a director, and we will not receive a report, nor will our members participate in the work when it comes to considering this report. I think there's a lot of things to redecorate. And, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going into content today, but I was just trying to say in principle what I said. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5951	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5952	So it's about establishing a new body, the Agency and an administrative organisation that hopefully, in collaboration with all other institutions in charge of this area, will lead to and prevent as well as a more successful fight against corruption in our... country. This explains that this is also one of the conditions for bringing the EU closer and also for visa liberalisation, so that we from the Bosniak People's Club will also support this first reading of the principles, of course, and in the second reading of the legislation; of course, we will see about the amendments and... we will come forward later. So we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5953	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5954	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Mr Belkić from the House of Representatives and present guests. Here, I have come forward for a reason to join in thinking part of these delegates who have responded precisely to Article 17 when it comes to this selection committee... members of the Agency and, simply, the position of the House of Peoples. My colleagues said, I'm just joining their commentary, I don't want to comment on this. However, today we are talking about the principles of this law and I am going to remain in another way with this Article 17. I will not doubt the honesty of the legislators of this law... probably, where there was the intention of this commission too, and this agency being extremely independent and neutral on certain issues, etc., but I still have a few of these dilemmas here when it comes to the non-governmental sector. We know what this non-governmental sector is, how and in what way the NGO will now decide whether or not someone has thought about who will be a member of this committee who will participate in the selection of this agency. Are there any conversations, arrangements, criteria, etc. Also a dilemma, I have nothing, anyway, when it comes to the academic public in BiH. I see here that they are proposed and in the proposal there are two members of this commission from that part, and I also have a little dilemma that is present. And in particular, look, one representative from the ranks of prominent citizens. What is this criterion for us to define someone that he is a prominent citizen... in BiH? Whether it's going to be some kind of competition or there are some criteria for defining, means choosing that man, etc. I just want here when I talk about principles, I think there are a few things that we should explain here in the election and this commission to be a little clearer and more precise. And I hope that in the follow-up of the debate after the adoption of these principles today, we will also have opportunities to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5955	Thank you very much. Anyone else need a word? I'm closing the debate. I suggest we plead to the principles of this law. So we're talking about first reading. Who is “for ” to accept this law in the first reading? I agree that we unanimously accepted this bill under point 12 in our first reading. I thank Mr. Belkić. Point 13 is: Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the 2008 Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for Bosnia and Herzegovina - applicant: Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency; Report No: 01,02,16-1-1001/09 of 7. 8. 2009 The responsible Finance Committee and the budget delivered the report, you saw him. It proposes that our committee adopt the proposed conclusion. The House of Representatives adopted this report without a conclusion. Mrs. Majkić wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5957	So, regardless of all the members, i.e. all the delegates received a report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2008, I really feel the need to say a few words, primarily because of the media that should know how BiH institutions behave. So you saw that we have four groups of institutions. The first group of institutions to carry out the budget between 90% and 100% and that group of institutions... which includes 14 institutions: they have neutrality, regardless of the high percentage of budget execution, they have 28 million and 1,230 people employed less than the planned number. In another group (not to speak, you have an institution in front of you), the other group of institutions includes 17 individual institutions that have a budget between 80% and 90%. They left 23 and a half million, and hired 155 employees less than the planned number. 33 The third group makes up 11 institutions that have a percentage of executions between 70% and 80%, so 11 institutions that remain neutral 10.2 million and have 103 employees less than the plan. But the most critical is the fourth group that has 25 institutions that have an execution of 0 to 70%, left 71, nearly 72 million, and have 269 employees less than plans. In order to know the state of the fourth worst category: the Ministry of Communication and Transport is 68% budget execution; the Prosecutor's Office 68%; the Office for the Review of Appeal 68%; the Office of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator 68%; the Office of the Ombudsman for Human Rights 67%; the Directorate for European Integration 67%; the High Court and Prosecutorial Council 65%; the Ministry of Justice 64%; the Office of BiH 62%; the Institute for Missing Persons 62%; the Institute of the State Department for the Protection of Consumers 58%; the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data 53%; the Food Safety Agency 51%; the Office for Law 50%; the Office for the Protection of Plants 49%; the Institution for Consumer Protection 48%; the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality 46%; the Agency for Economic Traffic of Economic Planning and Security, the Agency for the Security of the Agency for the Security of the Agency, the Agency for the Health and the Security of the Agency; the Agency's Security Fund, the Agency, the Agency for the Agency for the Security and Security and Security Fund for the Trustary, the Agency for the Agency's and the Agency's Security Fund, the Agency, the Agency, the Agency for the Agency for the Agency, the Agency for the Agency for the Agency, the Agency for the Agency and the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency, the Agency for the Agency, the Agency for the Agency for the Agency and the Agency for the Agency's Security and the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency's Security, the Agency for the Agency for the Agency for the Agency's. So 71 million. When you look at all of it, so these four groups, there's 134 million left. And what we have found is based on the analysis of budget implementation: that the business activities of most budget users do not follow compliance with their planned budget spending. That's it: come on, let's make the budget as big as possible, and then I'll see what I can spend it on. So if, if the budget represents policies converted into numbers, then we ask ourselves which policies are not achieved. Secondly, many institutions are unreally planning the budget, so the surplus of 134 million, who knows it would mean a lot to one of the institutions that didn't get enough money to realise their start-up planning activities. And finally, one fact, which awaits us every year, which is the delay with the adoption of the 2008 budget, has also affected poor execution. Here, as you have seen, the Commission has accepted the report on the execution of the Budget and proposed four conclusions: '1. That it requires the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to take the necessary measures to improve the planning process, control of the implementation of the Budget and inform the Commission here about the measures taken. 2. To draw attention to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury that it is necessary to respect the provisions of Article 22(2) of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions and regularly to the Parliamentary Assembly to submit six-monthly reports on the implementation of the institutions' budget and international commitments." We've never received those reports before. Sub: 34 '3. The home of the people asks the Council of Ministers to respect the legal deadlines for drawing up the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions for the following year." I guess this year we'll be waiting for 31. 3. to adopt the budget for next year. And under '4. The people's home is asked by the Council of Ministers to forward the Bill on Budget to BiH institutions for 2010 as soon as possible. The BiH presidency so that this law will be sent to parliamentary procedure as soon as possible." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5958	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rajić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5959	I must point out, I am a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of this House and, of course, I respect the conclusions that Mrs. Majkić made as president, because that is the majority opinion, but I have a need to say that I am also on the Committee, and I want to repeat today, had a slightly different view of all this together, here is what is said both in this debate and in the Opinion of Conclusions. First, I objected and then, and now I oppose, raising plans to a pedestal socialist category, which is very often done by us, and planning becomes its own purpose. In such unsettled circumstances, in such a dreary society as BiH, such complex constitutional structures and such economic relations as have been imposed by the global crisis, I say there is no one to be a good planner. We can get carried away by illusions and tell the pucks of those who didn't plan well, I'm telling you that in these circumstances it's impossible to plan better. And it's not the purpose of our discussion of planning, it's the achievement of the budget on both its income and its dispensary. I have not heard it yet, and I have asked that question at least 15 times, I from no one, not in Parliament, not from the Council of Ministers, I have not heard why BiH is the only country on the globe of the Earth that cannot rebalance its budget. What are the real reasons? If we had the possibility of rebalancing, then we would have the opportunity to coordinate real life flows and budgetary positions, even multiple times. As you have seen, this year there have been multiple interventions on countries' budgets in the environment, unfortunately, we in our country cannot do that. As long as we do not have the opportunity to rebalance our budget according to the needs of life, we will talk about planning and deviation without effects and without moving. With the lack of opportunity to rebalance the budget, I again point to two laws that have tied the hands of life in BiH: Public procurement law and the Law on civil servants are objectively brakes for the performance of the tasks that BiH institutions have, one of the main reasons with the lack of precise planning to achieve results in this way. As long as we don't achieve this, so I don't think this one, I say, until we reach the possibility that we can rebalance the budget according to needs, without touching our most important obligation to implement international financial obligations, as long as we don't make 35 current public procurement laws and civil servants laws, we will always revolve around the report and about planning.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5960	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5961	Thank you very much. So this report, as well as the next audit committee on this issue, is quite extensive. Here, I'm just going with the support of these words that were told to talk about one problem. In fact, it is about achieving excess income over expenditure and the way in which it is available. When you look at this entire report, you will see that in continuity with the Council of Ministers, so year by year, funds based on accumulated surplus income are 243,557,249 KM. Of course, it's not in one place and it's not neutral, but in continuity, year after year, funds are transferred. One part of the Council of Ministers, when planning the budget, so the adoption for next year, puts it into the budget, but still remains one part of which they have, is not decided by Parliament, and they post-festum when we adopt these reports on the implementation of the budget later inform us. On pages 36 and 37, it is said that around 102 million were included from 2007 and 2008 in Budget 2009 and then is said that the available accumulated surplus income for transfer to reserves in 2009 is 40,927,250 KM and that this distribution is contained in Table 7a) on page 86. And below is the table that speaks of the assigned revenue of 11,586,920,27 KM, so here I don't see what's left of the remaining cca 30 million. So, not to argue, let it be, therefore, that all institutions that are on the budget should spend money to perform functions in the interests of citizens for what they are founded for. It is also better to stay if they are unable to spend them for a variety of reasons – and to apply the Law on Public Procurement, the application of the Law on Civil Servants, etc. - but to spend them in, don't give Bog, bad or wrong way. And what I am asking all my colleagues from this House and, of course, the House of Representatives to take a good look at this budget and the law on its implementation in a way that the total amount of surplus revenue achieved will be considered... in the Parliamentary Assembly and Parliament will decide on that spending. Of course, it is impossible to know at that moment, if we were to adopt the budget in December, what will be the execution for this year 2009, but we will try, at least I am asking colleagues and colleagues to try to install a provision... in those two regulations that will allow parlametan to decide on a truly realistic surplus of these revenues for Parliament to decide on, rather than the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5962	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. 36 We will approach the vote on the report on the implementation of the Budget. Please, who is "for" this report? I agree that we have accepted the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget. We will now also make clear on the proposal for the conclusions of the committee in question. Who is "for" such a suggestion of the conclusions we have heard? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? There isn't. I agree that we have unanimously accepted these conclusions of the relevant committee. Point 14. is: Ad. 14. Report by the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Review of the 2008 Budget of the BiH Institutions – applicant: Office for the Review of the BiH Institution; Report No: 01-16-1-1080/09 of 11. Nine. 2009 The House of Representatives has accepted this report. Is there a need for Mrs. Majkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5964	Well, a few words.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5965	A few words. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5966	Thank you. Here, I'm taking the opportunity to welcome the deputy general auditor who came to this point. And it's really important that I say a few words about the Office's review report on the budget implementation report. We came here for the first time this year to consider it parallel to the execution of the Budget, and then it's much clearer, because the revision has already turned our attention to what needs to be looked at well, because, as you have seen, and this is the reserve report. It is worth a lot of money to the Ministry of Finance that practically nine recommendations from 2008 have not been carried out and a whole series of other recommendations made by the Office for Audit, especially from the aspect of the function of appropriate analyses and supervision of the implementation of the Budget and the aspect of the fill-up of staff in the Ministry of Finance, which for years in a row, I think, has been the issue of hiring people who are supposed to work in the Ministry of Finance on certain jobs, and that the Ministry is also not doing one significant thing, which is a list of funds. It's terrible to hear that someone hasn't made a list of the funds and that they've been auditing them for years, one by one, over and over again. Also, countless of these tiny ones, but if I didn't count them all, it would have taken us too much. What I would like to say is that the Commission has accepted this report, but I am talking about these conclusions which it has proposed: 37 'To order the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to submit within 60 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion to the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People's Office a programme to remove irregularities in business established audit reports from earlier years, as well as recommendations from the 2008 report on the revision of the 2008 Budget report. year.' So, finally, to create a plan within the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury in which this ministry plans in general to address the shortcomings and recommendations observed by the audit. The second conclusion: ‘It is necessary for the responsible persons of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to, immediately following the receipt of this conclusion, set out preventive measures to remove identified irregularities and to initiate a procedure for determining the responsibilities of the staff for the failures listed in the audit report and to inform the Commission of the preventive measures taken and the internal measures taken against individuals of the report of the Finance and Budget Commission by 31.12.’ Finally, I think it is crucial: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH commits itself to review the report on the 2008 report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and on the busy positions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.' I really think that all the work that the Office for Audit is making is unnecessary, all the efforts that competent parliamentary committees are making if the Council of Ministers does not consider it appropriate that a review report should be debated at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5967	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the proposal of the Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions under point 14. Who is “for ” such a proposal? I'm being unanimous. Moving to point 15. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Just a little bit, yes, yes, conclusions. I hope they're not controversial. We heard the proposal for a conclusion. Let's just get to the bottom of this. I agree that we have unanimously accepted these conclusions that we have heard from Mrs. Majkić. 38 Point 15 is Ad.15. Report on agriculture for BiH for 2008 – applicant: Council of Ministers; Report No: 01,02-28-988/09 of 17. Seven. 2009
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5970	Dear Chairman, we have discussed this report on the situation in agriculture at the last session of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, and have assessed that this report is comprehensive. It was prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The minister is here with us today, and I welcome him. This report is based on the Law on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development. It is a law adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly last year and under it there is a obligation to submit reports to both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I think the report is quite extensive, in a comprehensive way it shows the situation in BiH's agriculture and is made up in coordination with the entity's agriculture ministries and the relevant authority responsible for the area of agriculture in Brcko District. It also contains explanations concerning the possibility of using EU pre-accession funds since we are still not a candidate country, but we are a potential candidate for EU accession and we can use pre-accession funds concerning administrative capacity, strengthening administrative capacity to use funds from these funds. The situation in agriculture is not great, it can also be confirmed by the minister, but here we are recently when I was in Strasbourg at the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly meeting where farmers from Germany protested outside the Parliamentary Assembly building; they came to France to protest. We had recently protested farmers from France. In Switzerland, we had the opportunity to see, there were our constitutional legal committees visiting some agricultural ones, otherwise they were visiting the Swiss state parliament, as well as Kanton Ženeva, and we had the opportunity to see what the situation in agriculture and in Switzerland itself was getting very big incentives from the state budget. Small agricultural holdings in one orderly Switzerland are in a very difficult situation, so BiH, I think, is not the only country in Europe, and especially faced with our difficult economic situation, so this situation could have been expected. So I think that this report is a comprehensive one, represents a comprehensive analysis and allows the Council of Ministers to take appropriate measures on the basis of this review of the situation which has been drawn up, so that we have proposed the adoption of one conclusion, which was also adopted in the House of Representatives: that the Council of Ministers is to prepare within 60 days measures to improve the situation in agriculture, and in particular measures which will increase the coverage of imports of agricultural products. 39 I, on behalf of this committee, suggest that this report be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5971	Thank you very much, Master Čolo. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Ljubičić, then Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5972	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will join part of the debate and commentary of Mrs Alma Čolo when it comes to this report. I thank the Minister who attends the session and who has taken this time to be with us at this session today. I join in the sense that this report is truly comprehensive and that one, in my opinion, has been given a good picture in this area in BiH. I have no intention of commenting much on this report, I will stay here on this first page and in the part of the talks where the minister has given us one of these summarised images and has given a few notes at the same time in which BiH could act on this matter. I don't think I'll be wrong if I say anything else. It is practically an area where BiH thinks it has great space and great opportunities to take advantage of in the coming period, especially when we are looking and if we are aware, and I believe that we are, a complete state, a situation and a global crisis and simply solving many of the problems that are present in BiH when it comes to our people and our citizens. I simply think that this is the space where we should now try to find solutions within what the minister has suggested and in which direction it is working and acting in simple creating a greater chance and space that simply in BiH people who have opportunities and want to deal with this area, and is also a very interesting area for BiH and our citizens to try to use this next time and to make certain things in this direction, in which the minister... suggested and proposed, and exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5973	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just say you don't need to be too smart to figure out that the huge employment capacity is right here in this branch. Today, to tell you the truth, people don't even sow guns. Look, go around, you'll see some cultures here and there, because people don't get into it, they won't get involved, because we have terrible conditions for one such production. Here, I'll just go back to this material, so it's comprehensive, there's no story, it's all like that, it's missing what we've concluded, and I think it's good, but, look, this is for 2008. 40 years, so in that year, here's what I'm talking about is the food industry that's based on agricultural production: practically out of these 12 listed branches, the industry, starting from mill to cigarette production, only in the production of cigarettes we have the capacity of 61%, we have the milk about 53%, everything remains below 50%, and it's drastically below 50% for 2008. So this will say that in these industries we have a devastating impact on what is happening – non-employment. You don't need anything if we say that fruit and vegetable processing is 16.9%, meat processing is 36% and something, wine production is 15.9%, mineral water production uses 16% capacity. When we were in one country, we had an average capacity utilisation in these industries in BiH 78%, so when we weren't special countries. Now that we've become special countries, all of a sudden all of this is going to the helicopter, as the people would say. We talked about it here, we have a lot of reasons to cook for ourselves, and we have this thing that other countries around us have been better organized for us, so they're using it, and we're not. Here, I'll, before I go to the discussion about it, say that what he was reading and he was talking about the Federation, and for the RS is even worse. We don't have a percentage anywhere there, but let's say we process the corn 25% use of capacity. All that is privatised, so in all of this, in the entire RS food industry what is privatised and where is more private than state capital: the use of capacity is somewhere around 30%. Employment: only two organisations have retained employment compared to 2007. There's a fall in everyone else. The bankruptcy is carried out in several large fruit processors, so “Bosnia” Doboj, “Sava” Bijeljina, “Foodproduct” Shamac, “A.D. Predornka’, etc., etc. It's called a Banja Luka brewer, and I know the data, so I'm going to tell them if beer's being kept in production. They sold 500,000 hectolitres of beer a year before Serbia, so they built a factory, we have everything there, a million hectolitres, and the sale fell to 200 hectolitres a year. You can imagine what it's like for them now. And they don't do well, they have losses of over 12 million marks, and for "Vitinka", I don't know, here mentions "Vitinka". So it's not true about that Banja Luka brewery in this data. Not to go any further, I mean, the situation is so catastrophic and so many people are less employed than we should objectively hire that it's a disaster. I said there's guilt, there's a lot of things up to us, especially in the food industry, so I'll, uh, let's see your reasons. So now I'm going to go over a little bit, here's the story of food safety. So, I'm going to talk a little bit about the Food Safety Agency, which is competent to arrange some things here, and here it is mentioned here that some nine regulations were adopted in 2008, as nine others were prepared, but it's not true. There are over 40 regulations that have been conducted in public debates, where even manufacturers have agreed that this is okay, but none of these 40 and some of the regulations have been adopted. I'll tell you what I think why not. Someone in that agency, who hired over 20 people, imputed a board of 15 people. And here, for a year and a half, they haven't been able to convene a board meeting that would have to adopt these regulations to be adopted by the Council of Ministers, because they can't do the quorum. You remember that one case, I think you're the chairman of the intervention. Who put it that way, who put people there, I don't know. But that's disastrous for two reasons. First, we can't, so when our product goes out like this which is food, then the truck stops there, the samples are taken, the truck is put in the customs zone to lie down, and 20 and a few days it's being questioned, and then everything's fine and then you go, but the product is free. We can't do the same, to be polite, because we don't have those rules, we have nothing to call on. What you're gonna do, how you're gonna analyze 41, when you analyze what you're gonna compare to what you don't have. We've got all the imports done in half an hour for all of us and one of those groceries, any one of them. So we're drinking the branch we're sitting on. That's what we're to blame and what we have to do. Here, the law says it takes 15 people, and now no one's trying to change the law. Here, we'll pull in the end. And the second is that our neighbours reported very well, organized and introduced millions, but it's not millions but hundreds of other duty-free barriers that I once tried to say something about, so it turns out that I was in conflict of interest, I shouldn't have said that I was producing barley and selling in Croatia, but suddenly there's a regulation out there that my partner from Croatia has to have an import license, and there's CEFTA. So, just one example. It doesn't matter what I was, I had, thank Bog, Minister Zirojević, so he handled it for me. That's me, and what about the others. They got hurt, I didn't. You understand. So, my people, something very serious has to be done here. So, we just figure out here, figure out, figure out, and that's it. Now, these findings have to motivate people working at the ministry to make a proposal for some kind of measure that we're going to get past this. If this is the case, look out for this in 2008, 2009 is drastic. I doubt it, I know about myself and about where I can influence and act, not production, not one of these has no growth, but there's a fall, and it's a huge fall. Not one of those falls is below 10% compared to that of the 9th month. How it's gonna be by the end of the year, I don't know, but that's how it is. We'll keep firing people, still have fewer employees. The capital will save itself one way or another, you know. And when he loses, he'll write something there and there. I guess there's going to be a better time, that's what we all hope for, but it's going to be objectively affected by people working in these industries, especially those dealing with agriculture. That's where you have to advocate, give guarantees to someone. Here, as I, come on, now in the conflict of interest again, I have had my cooperatives to go to jail; my people, I am behind you, whatever it is, we will calm down, you will not fail, etc. So there's no one else guaranteeing the state, which would be normal, if they could get into some kind of production to hire themselves and the family, because no guarantees, and what they say will be incentives and it's late, they don't get it. And I, to tell you the truth, don't know where we'll end up if this keeps up. We all say, my people, how long is this going to take, but it's been going on for years. And it's been collapsing for years. And we are responsible for the people who would do something and earn something, and for God's sakes, and for ourselves. Look, no one can handle a pay deficit like this. It must absolutely bring down macroeconomic stability however it turns and eventually it will return to us, as it returns, and smash on the head. That is why we have provoked this conclusion and it must be here specifically adopted 'that the Council of Ministers says within two months how to get out of this'. We have limitations, I agree, but let them write. Here, we talked about agriculture and those measures the other day. So who's going to do it, there isn't, when it's on a hundred sides. Everyone needs something, no hierarchy, no, you can't coordinate from one place and successfully solve that problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5975	You'll be spending twice as much time. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5976	Here, I'm done. Anyway, I think you understand and understand that this doesn't take a lot of words, but let's go see, let's go with those conclusions and see what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5977	Thank you very much. I didn't want to interrupt you because I'm a famous farmer in this country and you've reminded me a lot, in some of your discussions, of your colleague Lijanović, but the conclusion is good and will have my support. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. _________(?) As a supporter of agriculture or...? No, about the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5979	No, colleague Adem has exhausted everything about the report itself, and I want to say something about the look itself... the way this report was done. I really think that this Parliamentary Assembly rarely has a chance to get this quality report. We may be dissatisfied with whether this is arranged or whether we are too big of a board of directors, but it is our business to change, it is not a matter of this report in the area of agriculture in BiH for 2008. I, you know, want to thank the Minister and his associates and the agriculture, nutrition, forestry and rural development publicly behind this pay phone that we have received a book, a textbook that can serve us for several of our commissions, which can serve us further. But what I would ask them to do is actually make a book out of this material that has 120 pages, from which we can see everything that's been done, what is planned, all the addresses, all of BiH's relations with the EU, everything we need in the commission's work. I would really ask, I don't know how they are, I don't think they're big funds, that they really make a book that will be readable to both MPs and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly for their work, the chambers of commerce and all those who find it hard to access the data. Often our decisions are bad because we have bad materials. Often, we cannot make a quality conclusion because we do not have the opportunity to access all of this very patiently and in a quality way. Here, I also thank you as a member of this commission who will use the data, but I really ask you to create a book, it would be easier for us to manipulate it than for this material that's typed text. Thanks again. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5980	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5981	Here, I'll just have one sentence, I don't know what's going on here. We have a very bad situation in this area, and it's written, and a respected colleague praises this minister's report,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5982	Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5983	Wait a minute, when Mr. Rančić is finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5984	Well, I don't know if it has anything to do with those two things.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5985	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Replica, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5986	Dear colleague Rančić, as you know, agriculture is in the jurisdiction of the entity. I hope you know that. And I'm asking you what kind of mechanisms you'd use if you're making one material like this by collecting from entity, state, cantonal, I don't know who you're making this material. I'm talking about the mechanisms available to this ministry to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5987	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić. Let's break the lines after you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5988	Well, here's one, and I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5989	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5990	Well, fair enough, but I'm entitled to... 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5991	If he can't do it differently, hit him fairly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5992	Of course, of course, so I'm glad that here in my third year, my colleague understands this thing, so in order for someone to do something, he must have jurisdiction. But let her remember her discussions about some other ministries or institutions when she was like that from the burst of fire and spoke, and she didn't wonder if anyone had jurisdiction or not. So when it comes to agriculture, is CEFTA an agreement, is it in the jurisdiction of the state or of BiH? I mean states, I think states.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5993	What's the matter here?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5994	And then I ask that it be implemented, but I also ask that measures be taken to protect domestic agricultural production from the state level. Of course, and everyone, starting with the budget, the municipalities and the city, and they have and can help their citizens in every area and here's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5995	Thank you very much. If I may only notice, here is my personal point of view about this, it was about the report and Mrs. Majkić, I followed closely, she spoke about this report. The report is extremely high-quality, as far as I'm concerned, and well-conceived. So all the problems are presented, so the area in BiH is facing, and also in one entity. And I thought, when I saw how it was prepared, it was prepared clearly in the way they do in Europe, the methodology of making up that report was used, but this is proof that we have a capable minister and that we have a capable ministry and professional people in that ministry who knew how to apply what it was: so they didn't invent hot water, but they made us a quality picture in that report and they can understand it by the non-professionals from agriculture. If no one wants a word from their colleagues anymore? Replica, Mr. Adem, you've exhausted the discussion for a double duration.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5996	You couldn't call this mine a replica. For that matter, we spoke to the Deputy Minister, we had a chance the other day, we're not going to go green in this at all if we don't have a state-level ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5997	We're talking about this report, now we're not talking about a new ministry. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5998	I'm just saying we can talk for 100 years, but it'll always be the same situation, the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u5999	It's supposed to work, so there's no talking to work in this area. Is there anyone else in need? He asked for the word of Honorable Minister Zirojević. Here you go, Mr. Zirojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6000	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished delegates, media representatives, since I see that there are no more fellow ministers, here I will briefly comment on the report and your discussions. In fact, all I was going to say was, and it was really very comprehensive and concise, the distinguished delegate Alma Čolo. And the other discussions were really very constructive, so I'm going to briefly comment on this report. First of all, it is a good thing that one such document is in front of Parliament for the first time. General is... the finding of all those who had insight into this document that he was very well done, even representatives of the European Commission only the words of praise had on this document. Of course, there are those who think it could have been different and better, but I think those are really small. It is a practice for all EU countries to live on the agriculture sector, as a very important sector (in BiH directly or indirectly, nearly 50% of the population) so it is a practice to discuss once a year the situation in the agriculture sector at the highest legislative level. Here's the first time this document is in front of you. The document was done in co-operation with the Resort Ministry of Agriculture and the Brcko District Agriculture Department. Mr Ibrahimpašić mentioned the data contained in this report, they were simply used in co-operation and by the institutions responsible for giving data, the Statistics Agency too, the Directorate for indirect taxation and other institutions. Well, if they're wrong, then, please call those institutions. So this is the third in a row report. For 2006 and 2007, reports were adopted by the Council of Ministers, and this document was the first time in Parliament for 2008. It was simply made, among other things, and that you give your judgment on it, and that you give your opinion on this document and certainly that in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations it will be a good basis for us to create agricultural policies in the future. As Mrs. Majkić said, you must have in mind that the Ministry of Foreign Trade has only a co-ordinated role in the agriculture sector, that it is a real competence on entities and they share subsidies. How many times have I warned them here about the fact that our neighbors, mentioned here, are ten times more isolated in the agriculture sector. This is an unequal struggle and it is difficult to expect that by introducing certain safeguards, of course, it is necessary to think about it in the way it is allowed and as prescribed, that problems in the agriculture sector can be solved in such a way. Our customs duties are small, they're minor, we have the lowest customs rates in the region, but they're what they are. And our neighbours are investing 10 times more in terms of subsidising the agriculture sector... 46 I will briefly comment on the presentation of delegates, the esteemed delegate Adem Ibrahimpašić. He mentioned the Food and Safety Agency, and he asked the man a delegate question. Of course, you'll get an answer in writing, but here's a quick comment. On my proposal, twice already, the Council of Ministers has removed these regulations from the agenda and it is a general assessment, all ministers agree, that if we had put them in the process, we would have broken the law. Why? Because the only proposer, the authorised proposer of these regulations, is the Management Board of the Agency, not the Director or any of its colleges, as was the case. I'm sorry, I mean, I'm first of all the most interested in having those rules done one day and applied. Why? Because, you're absolutely right, when a shipment of mineral water or plain water comes, we'll have the opportunity to order a microbiological or any other analysis of that shipment that fits the process. What our neighbors are doing to us, it's undeniable, but we simply couldn't be careless and let us break the law by letting regulations pass the law. The House of Representatives has reached its conclusion, adopted this document,... that within 60 days, the Ministry of Foreign Trade has prepared a set of measures in order to mitigate the problem in the agriculture sector and, behold, there is my assistant Mr nešković and he informed me, I was on the road last week, that we have prepared this document to the most extent already, but we have good practice, and farmers appreciate it very much, that we have made intensive contact with them. Even on my proposal is formed a commission that is periodically meeting, there are businessmen of all branches, especially those from the agriculture sector, we want to hear their opinions on the proposed set of measures, and so very soon we will be in a position to offer this document... Parliament. That's what I wanted briefly. I mean, you've already said a lot about the document itself, and I thank you once again for assessing it, even though most of you, as a comprehensive, comprehensive document, which I repeat, will be a good basis, a good basis for creating agricultural policies in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6001	Thank you very much, Minister Zirojević. I'm not closing the debate. I'm asking if there's anyone else to speak of. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to get to the bottom of this report that we've been discussing. Who is "for" this report, please make your statement. I understand that we unanimously accepted this report. We will also make clear on the proposal for the conclusion of the relevant Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy. You heard him. He was read by our chairman of the Committee. Who is the "for" proposal of this conclusion? I also find that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a conclusion of the relevant committee. Moving to point 16, that's 47 Ad. 16. Proposed Rules of Procedure on the work of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the work of police officers in BiH police bodies The proposer is the Citizens' Appeals Committee for the work of police officers in BiH police bodies. The Joint Committee adopted this proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Board of Appeal. The House of Representatives also adopted the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the Board of Appeal. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Board of Appeal. Who's "for"? I agree that we have accepted the Rules of Procedure's proposal, although I will never be able to make up for what we have ever adopted in the law that the Parliamentary Assembly is bringing a Rules of Procedure. This is the only Rules of Procedure that adopts this parliament for the work of these two bodies. But we must respect what we had to accept. We're going to point 17, that's "Ad." 17. The programme "Perspective" and Information of the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Head of the Armed Forces of BiH on the transition and care of the staff of the MO and OS BiH, with opinions and proposals of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH (material number: 03/1-03-578/09 of 21. Nine. 2009)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6004	Just a few words, because this is not the result of one session of our committee, but in continuity. We have essentially imposed on the Ministry of Defence and all others involved in this “Perspective”, and this is about trying to take care of the so-called “Perspective”. There's a lot of people out there, and there's a hell of a lot of them, somewhere around 3.5 thousand people who are going to be out of a job, I'm stressing by law enforcement, somewhere up to one. Next year. So, together with the Joint Head of the Armed Forces of BiH and primarily the BiH Ministry of Defence, we are trying, not under the provisions of a law that is inexorable, but on another basis to form a programme and to make all the efforts that are in our capacity, of course, taking into account the opportunities of this Parliamentary Assembly to make this problem, which is 48 objective, which is social, which is moral, which is ultimately, and human, that this programme is achieved and that the consequences of the inevitable legal provisions are as small as possible. I wouldn't explain it here, you have everything written, everything is said, you have a whole program, we've completely heard it at a very good session of our committee, and that's why we decided to refer this to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly even though this is not about the report, but it's about the information here. So we simply need to take this information to the knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6005	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrn. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. I put it to the statement, as stated in point 17, Programme and Information, in the contents of this item of the agenda. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously adopted the act referred to in point 17. Shall we now state the proposals for the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission? Who's "for"? I also find that we unanimously accepted the proposals for the conclusions of the committee in question. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for the conclusion of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, submitted at the 13th joint session of both houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 24th. Seven. In 2009, with the opinion of the Joint Committee on European Integration The House of Representatives accepted this proposal as a conclusion. The Joint Committee on European Integration has delivered and suggested to the House that the People's House adopt the proposal for a conclusion, with the corrections of the Joint Commission which are an integral part of the Opinion. I'm opening the debate. Maybe before we hear Mr. mir Jović, if there's any need. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6007	No microphone 49 is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6008	There's no need. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking who's behind this proposal's conclusion. Three is "for". Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? Three votes are "for", "abstained", six votes. This conclusion was not supported by the House of Peoples. We're going to point 19. Ad. 19. Report by the College Committee on Seeking Consensus on Proposal for the Finality of Representative Ivo Mire Jović on the appointment of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to present in Brussels conditions for the freedom of the visa system to the citizens of BiH You saw that we had no agreement on this conclusion. Did Miro Jović ask for a word about his conclusion? Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6010	Thank you very much. I can only say that this conclusion is already late at this time and is no longer current, because it is not in the position that we once had and I think it was pointless then to decide and speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6011	We'll make a statement, we can be against him, so we don't take him off the agenda. Who is "for" this conclusion? One vote is “for. ” Who is "against" this proposal? Three. "Contained" one, so two votes. This conclusion was not supported, and on Mr. Jović's proposal to give up on it. However, we had to make a statement about him in business. Point 20 is Ad. 20. Proposal for a conclusion for the appointment of the Interim Joint Ad hoc Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the High Education Development and Quality Insurance Agency 50 The House of Representatives appointed three persons, Mr Sead Jamakosmanović, Mr Raguž and Branko Dokić. I'm just acting like I'm opening up a debate. We can hear suggestions from persons for the composition of this committee. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Who is "for" this conclusion? Does anyone have “abstained ”? ‘Non’? So I agree that we unanimously accepted this conclusion from the Joint College of both homes. We now, after accepting this proposal for a conclusion, have to appoint three members in the Interim Joint Ad hoc Commission. I read the names of the House of Representatives. I'm asking the president of the Bošnjak klub to name it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6013	So, at the club, when we were preparing this session, we really decided that in two committees we were going, one agreement, one ad hoc, Mr. Neimarlija, and a colleague to go to these two adjustments, so we later consulted here and happened to have Mr. Neimarlija in two alignments, but here we are certainly not going to avoid proposing him in this Joint Ad hoc commission. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6014	You've praised me very much, that's your thing...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6015	To not be that we did what he did... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6016	It's his punishment for not coming to the session. Mr. Zrna, your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6017	Mr. Jović. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6018	Mr. Miro Jović. Please, Mr. Ljubičić ___________?) Mr. Drago Ljubičić in front of our club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6019	What, he can't do himself, can he?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-10-19-0.u6020	It's better this way. Nice to Ljubičić you. So, like this, we heard suggestions: Professor Neimarlija, Miro Jović and Drago Ljubičić. Who is "for" this temporary joint ad hoc commission? I agree that we have unanimously chosen this committee regarding point 20. We move to point 21 and to point 29. Ad. 21. - 29. Granting consent I suggest that we conduct a joint discussion, unite all these points and declare ourselves in the package, so for an international legal act under point 21 and for all others, at the conclusion of point 29. Who is “for ” such a proposal? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify international legal acts from point 21, including point 21, with the point of today's 29th agenda, which is why I am finishing today's session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much for your participation. The seat is finished at 13.45 p.m.
