ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24250	Please take your seats, we're starting to work. Marina, Sadik, please, we're starting to work. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 47th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Slavko, what about the song?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24252	I'm the one who's singing inside me right now. I'm not allowed to sing in public yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24253	All right, I hope we're in position soon. So, once again, I welcome you all. We have a quorum. There are 26 MPs present right now. I hope the rest of you join us. We have announced a legitimate absence, Mr. Jovan Todorović is still, for health reasons, absent. They are also absent the chairman of the MPs' clubs due to the official trip, but they will join us for about 12.00 hours at the session. A delay in the session was announced by Halid Genjac and Selim Bešlagić. But anyway, we have a quorum that we can work fully. As part of previous questions, I would like to inform you about the materials for which we are still taking action so that they may be discussed at the session of this House. And of course, I want to give you information about your initiatives, your demands, etc. So, when it comes to material, i.e. the discussion of meeting the requirements for the liberalisation of the visa regime, I have information that the material is done, it is only waiting for verification at the Council of Ministers and for it to be expected at the next session. We have not received a report on the fulfilment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and our commitments from the European Partnership, but I have been informed that it is being prepared and that we can hope for this material as soon as possible, and it will be the subject of discussion at the plenary session. I have previously given you information relating to the Council of Ministers' work report, but unfortunately, we must conclude that only one commission has practically considered this report, 2 according to the information I have, and I call on the presidents of the committee to do this as soon as possible. The deadline hasn't expired yet, it hasn't expired, but it's leaking, so let me put it that way, so I'm asking the presidents of the committee to make this commitment as soon as possible. We have today, as you can see, at point 20. Information on the floods in Pop's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area, with a proposal for conclusions, although last time we agreed to ask the Council of Ministers for additional materials. Unfortunately, until the beginning of this session we have not received these materials, but we have put this out of respect for the promoter and the removal of some possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings here. So it's up to you to assess whether this is enough for a quality debate. And finally, before moving to the agenda debate, I would like to inform you that the College has reached agreement on MP Denis Bećirović's proposal to include the point of "Advise the proposal for conclusions regarding continued attacks on journalists and the journalistic profession, with particular reference to the threat of independent media reporting in BiH", and that is point 21. As for the call that you initially received, I hope you've also got the final appearance of today's agenda, the clarification. So, at the request of the competent committees, for various reasons, but mainly because of the inability to meet, etc., the proposed agenda points have been removed, so in the first version of the call, points 9, 10, 13, 14, 15 and 16, and I, indeed, am taking the opportunity to warn the presidents of the committee that it is not forbidden to hold committee meetings any day of the month, that it is not necessary for them to be held only before the meeting and I ask them to carry out their obligations. New agenda items are included in the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. - The request of MP Sefer Halilović to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Freedom of Information Act in BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. - Information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Resolution of the European Parliament on Srebrenica, at the request of the Foreign Affairs Commission. - Information, as I just said, about the floods in Pop's field, the Krupa River and the Hut mud area. - And two other ratification agreements were included, as you might have noticed, if you have a final agenda proposal on the benches. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And, let me, for the record, read the agenda. So, the 47th House of Representatives session will consider the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 46th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH (first reading); 3 4. Declaration on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law on free legal aid (second reading); 7. Proposed law on international legal aid in criminal matters (second reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration (Second Reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Aviation of BiH (second reading); 10. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the provision of services in the BiH air navigation (second reading); 11. Parliamentarian Sefer Halilović's request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Freedom of Information in BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 12. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters (first reading); 13. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security on the Proposal for a Law on Border Control (first reading); 14. Proposal for a state strategy for drug control, prevention and control of drug abuse in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 15. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2008 – applicant State Regulatory Commission for Electricity; 16. Information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković and the activities undertaken after the event (it is other information after the conclusion of this home); 17. Information on BiH's non-permanent membership activities in the UN Security Council in 2010-2011; 18. Information on crimes against dignity of persons and morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings in 2006 and 2007 and the first nine months of 2008; 19. Information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the European Parliament Resolution on Srebrenica, Strasbourg, 14 and 15 January 2009; 20 January 2009 Information on floods in Pop's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area, with a proposal for conclusions; 21. Consideration of the Opinion on continued attacks on journalists and a journalistic profession, with particular reference to the threat of independent media reporting in BiH – Proposer Denis Bećirović; 22. Giving consent to ratification (a) an agreement on a military grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, (b) a bilateral education agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro, (c) an agreement on preferential trade between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Iran, (d) a Memorandum of Understanding on the future of the health network in Southeast Europe in the framework of a regional co-operation process in Southeast Europe. 4 We move to the realization of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 46th session
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24256	I'll do it very briefly. When it comes to the entry of the 46th session, I would just ask that, when we create this record, or that we put all the debaters and the proposings of certain points, we point out in particular, or that we do not do it in the case of any individual. So let's just make it a one-way solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24257	Of course, it will be a contribution to the equality of MPs. Are there any other objections to the 46th session? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the 46th session. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers According to our data, the answers were received: Adem Huskić of the Council of Ministers, questioned at the 41st session; Branko Dokić of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, questioned at the 44th session; Rifat Dolić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 38th and 44th session; Milorad Živković of the Constitutional Court of BiH, questioned at the 45th session; Azra Alajbegović of the House of Ministers, asked questions at the 45th session; also, Azra Alajbegović of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, on the question asked at the 40th session; Slavko Jovičić received a notice from the Council of Ministers on the issue asked at the 45th session, and Rifat Dolić received a notice from the Directorate for indirect taxation, concerning the question asked at the 42nd session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24259	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24260	Of course, you have the right to comment on the answers. 5 Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24261	Thank you, Chairman. I also thank the Council of Ministers for being present in this issue. My koleginica Members, my fellow Members, I would like to comment on this matter in two ways. Simply, last time I went out for this pay phone, in accordance with practice, I verbally explained the question, but immediately thereafter, in the office of the pisarnica, I delivered my question in writing. However, our services on the same day referred my parliamentary question to the Constitutional Court, but in the form of a copy of the transcript. I really don't understand why my question is quoted through a transcript, if I've asked that question in writing where the argument is beautifully stated and even below, written p.s. that the explanation was written with a letter so that there would be no different interpretation. And after that, I got an answer that was practically very rude, in which, because only from the transcript was considered what I asked, an under-explained question that I asked. However, from such an unsettled issue, we have received a very frightening answer saying that the Office of the High Representative for BiH, at the time of the post of High Representative in BiH, performed by Mr Karl Bilt, issued a special publication containing the text of the BiH Constitution agreed in the General Framework Agreement for Peace for BiH, in English. In addition to the text, in the same publication, the text of the BiH Constitution was published in languages which are in the official use of BiH that do not have, meaning that the publication does not have official status, but in the opinion of the OHR is good working documents. So, I received the answer that the Constitution of BiH in the Constitutional Court, whose decisions are final and binding, is made through a working, unofficial document from the OHR. It's a terrifying knowledge in this country and, since I want to and exactly answer my question, I am asking our service this time that my question that I had written last time was directed to reroute and get an exact and deciprocated answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24262	I apologize, before I give the word to Sadik Ahmetović, I failed to say that MP Mehmed Suljkanović held the right to comment at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24263	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24264	Okay, let's go. I was obliged to suggest that. Mr. Dolić, everything is registered, you can see on Sadik Ahmetović's screen. _________(?) 6 [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, commentary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24266	These are the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24267	Comments. I thought that people... Please, we're on to comments right now. So I expect people to sign up for comments. You shouldn't have applied for questions until we finished our comments. So, all this stuff that's been reported, please cancel it. Please cancel, we haven't finished our comments yet. What's left is for comments? Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24268	Thank you. I must say that I have received an answer to the question and must commend the Council of Ministers, in a formal sense, on a very correct answer. The most correct answer in the formal sense I've got so far. As for content and reasoning, I will, as my colleague Suljkanović said, and at the next sessions, ask questions concerning this topic, because, just for the sake of the public, to say that a total of 240 people in the Council of Ministers are working under the Treaty of Action, which seems too much to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24269	Thank you. Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24270	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have received answers to two parliamentary questions. In response to the parliamentary question, I am pleased with the Council of Ministers on the electronic determination of unique parent numbers. At the 38th session of the House of Representatives, I asked a parliamentary question, which read: 'What is the exact number and what is the fate of pre-war residences in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and some other BiH cities that were owned by the BiH state and served to accommodate elected, appointed personnel in BiH institutions, and disappeared after the war under the auspices of the privatisation of BiH apartments. I also ask that this question be answered by as many analysts as possible about the number of apartments, the place where the apartment was located, the institution that used it, the institution and the responsible person who assigned the apartment and the names of the person to whom the apartment was assigned and who, therefore, later acquired a tenant right and made a purchase of apartments in privatisation." I received a reply from the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers does not have official apartments intended for temporary accommodation of officials, nor does it have information about these apartments. 7 In addition to the response, I also received a forward reply from the BiH Federation's Joint Affairs Service, which states that the number of these apartments is 65, but this refers to the current situation and does not respond to the number of pre-war dwellings and their fate until 1997, which I was interested in. Therefore, I ask that my question be forwarded to the BiH Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24271	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24272	I thank you, Chairman. At the 42nd session, I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers and I received an answer to that question, and it is my request that I get the BiH institutions' position: will BiH seek an official apology from Montenegro and reveal the complete truth about the injured Bošnjak as a condition for signing a contract we spoke about and in which official BiH institutions say we have no outstanding issues with Montenegro. Since the chairman of the Council of Ministers delivered, calling on the Constitution, the answer that the presidency is responsible for these issues, I ask this question to be forwarded to the BiH presidency and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24273	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24274	Dear Chairman, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, members, ladies and gentlemen from NGOs and journalists, of course colleagues and fellow Members, I received a reply from the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers. Not only does it apply to the 45th session when I set it up, you're all witnessing that I set it up at least 40 sessions. And I got answers from various institutions about the national structure of employees, and I asked that first question at the 2nd session. Of course, I also received answers from some institutions that I had never been satisfied with, because I had a systematization of jobs. I didn't ask for that. I asked to be answered who works in those places – Janko Janković, Jozo Jozić, Mustafa Mustafić – and to see the national structure that sits. And we are also witnessing here that my fellow Hrvat on several occasions and media and here have said that they are not sufficiently represented in institutions, which I will confirm, that also my fellow Bošnjak have asked that in some, of course, only institutions that are not satisfied with representation, and I will confirm that, and I have asked for all institutions. So I've never singled out any of them. And now that I've got this answer, I'm asking a new question. 'When will one of 56 of our institutions try to correct that imbalance in the national structure, at least leading people. I'm not asking people to relax now, professional eight associates and, I don't know, someone else who works there. But at least when they're receiving people to take care of it. Many have resented me, and I will repeat today why we put the national context first. Well, the Constitution of this country is based on the consistency of three peoples. Do I need to repeat myself to someone more? So here are two years and two months of office, and I'm asking if one of the only directors of the agency, the minister, anyone, has tried to correct that national imbalance in his ministry, his agency, his institution? And now it's not the Srbin. If there is a shortage, under the supposed signs of Hrvat, let it be corrected, Bošnjak, let it be corrected, and for all to be equal. If this parliament won't, if this state isn't going to do it at the level of the institutions, how are we going to ask some canton, entity, municipality and I don't know what? So I'm not happy with the answer. And now I ask a clear question: "When will it begin to apply that they are constantly standing up to me as answers?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24275	I'm sorry. So, we still have a report – of course, there will be questions, Slavko – so we have a further reported Azra Alajbegović and this is how we conclude the comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24276	Dear Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with the answer I received from the College of the House of Representatives and I would only really ask, if I can, to submit to me a proposal from the delegation that went to the College of the Ine-parliamentary Group of BiH at the Interparliamentary Union, given that there are certain differences in the proposal, as stated in the reply of the College of the Representatives' House, and what we agreed on in the Ine-parliamentary Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24277	I asked you to sign up on time. But no problem, Mr. Bećirović, anytime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24278	Thank you. About my question about Parliament travel in the last year. We've already received a certain answer to that question three times already. This morning came the last answer to my asked question which, I must say, is not correct. Both the Professional Service and the authorised people here in the Parliamentary Assembly will correct certain inaccuracies given in that response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24279	Here, I hope that we have finally concluded our comments and that we can move on to parliamentary issues. 9 So, we go in turn, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24280	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. 'As you are witnesses, these days you can hear in the media and officially that an investigation has been launched against some BiH citizens by the Prosecutor's Office in Serbia. And given that BiH has a court, has a Department of War Crimes, has the capacity to prosecute war crimes, whoever made them within BiH, and given the rules of the Roman Way, that another state cannot launch an investigation without the UN tribunal's consent, would I like the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to give me information on what it has done to protect the citizens of BiH who are the subject of this investigation?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24281	Šemsudin Mehmedović
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24282	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the guest of honor, I have two brief questions, namely the Council of Ministers and the State Commission for the Audit of Citizenship. First question: 'The foreign affairs service is 9. 2. In 2009, about 200 solutions for the abolition of bh were delivered. States to persons originating in the territory of the former SFRY Republic. According to unofficial information, it is exclusively the persons of Bosniak nationality in the Sandzak area. Since the work of the State Commission for the Audit of Citizenship with the so-called In the case of Vuković, I ask when will be the turn of the revision of the citizens of the exiled citizens of the Republic of Croatia, more specifically from the so-called ". Knin landscapes? A second question to the BiH Ombudsman: 'When and how will the BiH defenders get involved in resolving the BiH property issue, since the lawyers are the most invited to take care of the fate of BiH's assets? So far, I have not noticed that they have ever called about this issue, let alone involved in solving this difficult issue. So I expect the answer to say when and how and how will it be involved in resolving this issue?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24283	Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and the entity governments and, behold, it can also be a question but also as a notice, whether, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. The question is: 10 'What is to be done to prevent an outflow of personnel in the judiciary working in places outside their home?' These frames are exposed to additional costs in terms of payment of accommodation and separate life, so that their earnings are practically reduced by about 30% to 40%. This situation directly negatively affects the process of establishing a multiethnic judiciary in BiH. Just a brief explanation: When laws were passed to regulate the salaries of judges and prosecutors, then they were salaries that were much higher than other salaries in BiH. And that's why these people didn't get any right to other expenses on that occasion. Today, the salary of a municipal or primary court judge is about 2,400 marks. And if a judge from Trebinj comes to Zenica to judge or judge from Zenica, for example. goes to Trebinje to judge, he is exposed to accommodation costs, separate life costs and he has no right to anything and his salary is practically lower than the judge who has residence in Trebinj or Zenica, somewhere around 1,000 marks or, say, 40% of that salary. The same condition is with the State Border Service, and the same condition is with SIPA. I think all levels of government in BiH on this matter must be taken into account because the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is already in the position that it is difficult to appoint a Bošnjak or Hrvat in Trebinj or, as I know, a Srbin in Zenica etc. And we want to establish a multiethnic judiciary in BiH according to the 1991 census and all the services in BiH, and this costs nothing compared to the result we will eventually have, if we are persistent. Please, therefore, one urgent action, if any, should be discussed in this House. For now, just this question. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24285	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a parliamentary initiative and it is in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and I propose that a report by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, i.e. SIPA, on the delivery of a report on the criminal offence committed against several persons from the RS, be considered. Since the BiH Council of Ministers discussed the SIPA report at the 78th session, it could serve as the starting point for the discussion. I will explain that everything there has been determined, at least through the media, and what the Council of Ministers has said and which I am pleased that it is illegal..., I will not now enter into the measure of the matter to comment on who is there what has done, but I ask that the debate be opened in this House and that the agenda be placed on the agenda and that the Minister of Security - this is the first time he does not tell us, I will say to a public friend, that I blame him something, a man who has no idea of this, but since he is in charge of the SIPA, that the whole structure (director, deputy, assistant, who is there what 11 did), again I will not be an investigative authority – so to open the debate before this Parliament. Why? All this media, I would say first, the halabuka has agreed so much security situation in BiH that believe people when I go to Parliament's session, people ask, when I take part in some shows, will there be war tomorrow? So this parliament takes on the role of clarifying everything about these illegal bodies, parallel institutions, and the fact is that they exist. To clarify how it is possible to counter the materials in the market at Stup, the D.A. received them. When will our institutions start to function and when will we start bringing them in order to know who the director is, who the deputy is, who the deputy, who the MP is, who the minister, who the minister is, I don't know what, in this country? That's why I'm starting the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24287	Someone's coming, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24288	I hope so, Mr. Jovičić, when they ask you on TV if there's going to be a war, you say it won't. Right? Mr. Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24289	The chairman, it is also a parliamentary initiative. In accordance with Article 8. I submit to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives an initiative to discuss at Parliament's meeting the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Report on how to receive and proceed with the submission of the State Investigation and Protection Agency's report on the criminal offence against several persons from the RS. In accordance with Article 10. The Law on the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, on request, reports to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on its work and application of the BiH law, and urges the Prosecutor's Office to act on this request and delivers the above-mentioned report, which will serve as the starting basis for the discussion of the MPs of the House of Representatives at the specified agenda point. Just a brief explanation: Article 10. The Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which reads: "(The State Authorities Report) The Prosecutor's Office has the right and duty to, in the context of fulfilling its functions, on its own initiative or on request, report to the BiH Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers of BiH on its work and on the application of BiH law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24290	Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24291	Thank you, Chairman. 12 esteemed colleagues and colleagues, my questions were addressed by the presidents of the Commission for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency, Ms. Esma Hadžagić, and are related to the answer to the parliamentary question I asked at the 42nd House session, held in 17.12.2008. First question: 'How many points did the candidate get from the order of others, Professor Dr. - Tihomir, Knežiček? In response to the question raised at the 42nd session, it was stated that, for the members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Security Agency, Emina HotHot-Šljuka, a member of the postgraduate study (number of points 43) and Prof. Dr. Tihomir Knežiček, for which I have not found the number of points won, since page 7 of the review, with the rating of all candidates, has not been delivered in the material number, not to mention here since 10.11.2008. The second question is, "Do you not elect any candidates from Tuzla University to prejudge the abolition of this university?" Several professors from the University of Tuzla have applied for a contest for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency. No candidate has made it to the competition, while two candidates from the postgraduate studies are passing. I remind you that in the specific conditions of a public competition for the selection and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance under point 3. The specific conditions state that the candidate for a member of the Agency's Management Board must also meet the following conditions: knowledge of English, experience in the activities of the European higher education field, in particular European standards for the assessment and revision of quality and planning of higher education development and experience in the reform of the BiH Higher Education System. How could it happen that such a high-ranking flier has skipped two graduates of a postgraduate study and that regular and extraordinary professors of one of the universities in BiH stumble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24292	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24293	I thank you, Chairman. Appreciating the importance of the International Convention on Plant Protection, which BiH ratified in 2003, and the laws passed in accordance with it, I ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to answer the following questions: 'What is the situation in the functioning of the BiH Plant Protection Authority?' And as part of this, in particular: 'What is the national structure in management of the Administration, as well as in the Administration as a whole? What were the procedures for appointments in the management of the Administration, as well as the reception of officials and deputies as a whole? To what extent is the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation respected? What is the number and 13 for what reasons does a person’s engagement take place on the other basis than a working relationship? If, in the end, and if there are problems in the functioning of the Administration, what does the Ministry and the Administration intend to do to address the perceived shortcomings, and all to the efficiency of the implementation of the aforementioned International Convention and the adopted laws of BiH?'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24294	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24295	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues and distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions today. The first question is the BiH Council of Ministers. Just over a year ago, inside domestic and some foreign media, information was transferred on allegedly rich oil findings in BiH. And this information is the result, again, of the alleged satalite footage of this space. Recently, however, some information has been published in the media, which seems to me to be speculative approaches to the issue, as a consequence of these assumptions in BiH, an expedient study of oil findings allegedly carried out by companies from the US in the Federation of BiH and in the RS by some Russian companies has been launched. My question is: "In BiH, in the spirit of this kind of information, are oil sites being explored? If they do, which companies do these research, in what arrangement, and who has betrayed the necessary consent?" The second question is the appropriate resolution ministry in the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What are the prices of oil and oil derivatives in BiH, and what are the current price control mechanisms for these products? Are there any single standards for the quality of oil and oil derivatives in BiH, and how and who controls the quality of these products?" The reason for asking this question is indeed the real chaos that is the government in the area of importing, selling oil and oil derivatives in BiH. To ignore the totally unacceptable behaviour of importers and distributors of oil and oil derivatives in BiH when changing world oil prices, today it is completely unacceptable that in a small country such as BiH, for example, here yesterday passing, the price of euro elevators at a distance of some 80 km varies from 1.33 KM for liters in Vitez to 1.63 KM for liters in Sarajevo or by more than 20%. This would say that the Knights have their own oil wells, and since that's not true, then it's obviously a game of quality oil and oil derivatives or something else. It would be good for BiH citizens to have answers to these questions so that they too can behave rationally in dealing with these facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24296	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24297	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short question for the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which reads: "When will the BiH Medicines Agency start working at full capacity?" 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24298	I'm asking the Minister to be careful. There may be some questions you can answer immediately, Mr. Poljašević. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24299	I will repeat, means, 'When will the BiH Medicines Agency start working at full capacity?' In view of the fact that we have passed the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and that according to that law in July, practically, the term of office of some segment of entity ministries has ceased, that we now have one vacuum of time in the operation of certain means and certain processes, which is a problem in everyday life and which are the reasons that inappropriately long, however, this is all going very slowly, because there are currently many problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24300	Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24301	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, dear guests, I have two brief questions. The first question is Minister of the Council of Ministers, or Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Sven Alkalaj. 'Please provide me with a list of diplomatic passports and an explanation on what basis are they to issue these diplomatic passports?' Reason: According to my knowledge, there are a significant number of persons, citizens in BiH who carry a diplomatic passport without any legal basis. The second question is Security Minister Tarik Sadović. 'Why did the security authorities not respond immediately to the brutal attack, which took place on Saturday, February 7, 2009, at the Brana restaurant in Banovici, Dzemaludin Kurtic, Miralem Cosic and Ferhat Čolić, who suffered serious physical injuries and were subjected to multiple operating procedures, i.e. why did they not take statements on the same day that the attack happened 7.2. but only after a few days, i.e. on Wednesday 11.2.? Why and why does the investigative authorities not publish the names of the perpetrators of the brutal attack, but they name them as NN persons, although their names have been confirmed by the eyewitnesses and it is known to be the brothers of Esad and Sead Šehić? Where did they come from in this investigation, and what do they really think they are doing to bring the perpetrators of this criminal attack to justice?" Reason: 15 Džemaludin Kurtić is a wartime military invalid who has been amputated to his leg and Miralem and Čolić have been detained for injuries sustained during hospital treatment where they are subjected to multiple operations, while Čolić has been released for home treatment. Džemaludin Kurtić is the chairman of the Municipal Committee and the BPS municipal council in Banovic. In the presence of witnesses, the Šehić brothers launched an attack on Kurtić without any reason. The appointed Kurtić states that the only reason for the attack could be his political action as a council member at the Banovici Municipal Council, where it has long been indicated that there have been irregularities in the work of the municipal chief and majority of the SDA Municipal Council, and that it is against the adoption of the Financial Report... for 2008 and against the illegal setting of three kiosks near the school at a lower distance than the prescribed 100m in which tobacco and alcohol are sold. Kurtić notes that the wife of one of the attackers owns a kiosk near the school as well as his apparition of all irregularities in the criminal activities of the ruling SDA in Banovici. Kurtić is 26. 2. asked for the 4th session of the Municipal Council to be included in the agenda ‘Information on the attack on 70% of the military disabled’, which was rejected by the SDA Council, as well as the fact that Kukić Mirsad, a member of the SDA, came into the restaurant immediately prior to the attack. All indications indicate that this attack was pre-planned, as the attackers had prepared funds for an attack such as wooden sticks, police sticks and spray and had a political background. I'd also like to inform you that this is the sixth case of an attack in the last two years on political matters.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24302	Time, Mr. Halilović!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24303	Insolent people in the Banovics. I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24304	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24305	I thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask two questions today from the BiH Foreign Minister. It's about the same subject. 'I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide me with the names of our ambassadors who are currently on duty and where they are on duty, whether they are careers or not, and who all citizenships have.' 'At the same time, I ask the minister to provide me with information based on which legal act and who makes the decision on the assignment of bh. diplomatic passports (a similar issue as Mr. Halilović), and I am looking for a list of persons who have bh. diplomatic passports, on the basis of which they are assigned, and on the basis of which acts grant diplomatic visas and lengths and diplomatic visas, since we, as MPs, in this highest home in the country, get visas that remain for six months, and I don't really see why these visas are delivered only for six months." Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24306	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24307	Within three minutes allowed by the Rules of Procedure, I have only one question and an explanation of the matter. The question is, "Why has the BiH Council of Ministers not taken unique views over the past two years regarding the trials and arrests of BiH citizens by the Republic of Serbia?" I am asking the question for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the entire BiH Council of Ministers. Reason: We could hear that the ministers of the Party for BiH and the SDA supported the proposal of the chairman of the Council of Ministers... A proposal for conclusions regarding parallel structures in individual bodies and institutions of BiH. So, SNSD, when it comes to the Milorad Dodik case, managed to resolve it by consensus at the Council of Ministers together with ministers from the SDA and Party for BiH. However, the fact that parallel structures from another country, in relation to BiH, parallel structures, arrests, bring indictments and judges to BiH citizens, there are no views in the Council of Ministers and that the ministers from the Party for BiH and the U.S.A. have failed to agree with their SNSD counterparts. So the conclusion can be made, Belgrade can arrest, file charges and judge BiH citizens, but there are no charges against individual BiH citizens in Sarajevo. I think this is the behaviour of the ministers from the SDA and the Party for BiH as disastrous as possible, and I would ask that my question be answered as soon as possible, and at the latest within the time limit provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24308	I'm sure your question will be answered as quickly as anyone else, but you're abusers, so by reason you give an evaluation of people's work, etc. It's not correct. So this wasn't an explanation, it was simply an abuse of this pay phone. Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24309	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24310	Slavko Matić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24311	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, I have a question for the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. the leadership of this institution and the Council of Ministers, that is, the Resent Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Security: 'Why do different criteria and criteria apply at border crossings in the import and transport of goods and whether a decision has been taken to reroute the traffic of goods from one crossing point to another border crossing, i.e. favouring certain crossings to the expense of others? If there is such a decision, who made it and when?' A brief explanation: In the last year there has been a very large decline in the traffic of goods, let's say at the crossings of the Oresje and the Bosnian Shamac, and the first thought that this is another consequence of the economic crisis. It's probably there, but it's not just that, because over the same period of time, let's say for last year, for the same thousand shipments of reductions at these crossings, almost the same number has increased traffic at the Gradiška border crossing, which is the same on the north side and not far from these crossings. Are the reasons for such a thing that different criteria apply, which are still different prices for the collection of services from inspectors, which are at entity level, I mean veterinary, fitness and sanitary inspectors? Are some of these rules rigid, I mean these ones on the Nuts and the Shams, and the other ones are flexible to the extent that they're probably already in compliance with the legal regulations? Is it possible, for example, that imports of cars at the Oresje border crossing are estimated at 20,000 marks, and that same person, since it takes him a lot to Gradiška and there is an estimate of 10,000 marks? But that's not one case, that's what the customs officers did. Where are all the money spent from the US government's donations to the $5m PFD, and were only the Rača and Gradiška crossings or some other crossings? And is it possible that these inspection services, regardless of what inspectors are entities, if we're all talking about a unique economic space, and already at the entrance to the country, we have different charges of services from a veterinary, fitness or sanitary inspector just because he's in the Federation's control, or the RS, and that these cuts are so large? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24312	Denis Bećirović, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24313	Mr President, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, you do not have the right to ask MPs when asking questions whether their arguments are correct or incorrect, benevolent or unwitting. I asked the Council of Ministers very clearly: "Why has it not been two years that the Republic of Serbia has taken a stand on why the proceedings are being conducted, why is it that the Republic of Serbia is arresting and bringing charges against the citizens of BiH?" It was therefore a question, and I gave an explanation making it a parallel that it was really illogical that Belgrade could do it without being able to do it in Sarajevo, and I made it very clear that it was not good that we had such a situation in the 18-minister Council, citing some political parties that did it. It is my right to say so and I would ask you to leave us a business opportunity, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you to do your part of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24314	Of course, but you should act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not abuse him. So we're the ones who interpret, you've come out of the frame of normal, common reasoning, you've gone to other themes, but about that, nothing new. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24315	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I will ask one short question, two questions. Although after more than a month, I haven't received an answer to a simple question that I asked the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council about the personnel policy it is implementing, the same institution, so I'm asking the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council one even easier question, hoping to get a faster answer this time. From the means of information, we heard heavy accusations on the account of respected members of the BiH prosecutor's profession, Mr. Iza Tankić and Mr. Branko Perić, former president and member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The charges were made in Federal TV magazine 60 minutes. The question is, "What has the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council done to protect the integrity of these high officials if the charges are not correct, or what will the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council do to sanction them if the charges are justified?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24316	I don't have any more reports. So I conclude this point, or I conclude the possibility of asking parliamentary questions. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH (first reading) Allow short, short retrospective, reminder. So, the Council of Ministers delivered the parliamentary procedure of Amendment I to the BiH Constitution on 16 February this year. In the last session, I informed you that the College made a kind of diagram of this amendment. Accordingly, we are considering the amendment today in our 19 first reading. All of these activities, according to this hodogram, should be completed by 17 March. So, conduct a public hearing and submit a report on the amandman. Information: On 27 February, the Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional basis and principles. The Constitutional Commission has established a valid constitutional basis and adopted most of the votes on the principles of the proposal for an amendment. I see here today a large number of ministers and two deputy ministers of the Council of Ministers. I suppose that is also in the role of the promoter of this amendment, and it would be good if we had an agreement between you, i.e. who on behalf of the Council of Ministers is here in the position of the promoter, because it is a very important issue. Regarding the public debate, the College agreed that, with the adoption of Amendment I in its first reading today, it proposed to the House for adoption of the following conclusion: 'The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives is hereby authorised to hold a public debate on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH in five cities: Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Brcko and Tuzla. This is an introduction. So I am opening a debate on Amendment I to the BiH Constitution in the first reading. Here you go. I have a report from Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24318	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this should, in some ways, be, whether, preparing for a solemn moment in BiH. It is a matter, following the Dayton Peace Agreement, that the first amendment to the BiH Constitution is very likely to be adopted, and that is to say, the issue in Dayton, in the 1995 Dayton Peace Agreement, was left for arbitration. The arbitration is over, the arbitration decisions are famous and, behold, we are in a position today to discuss the situation of the matter in the first reading, so the Brcko District of BiH in the BiH Constitution through this amendment. As you yourself have said, Mr. Chairman, the Constitutional Legal Commission, on 27th and 26th of this month, made up its Opinion on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH and the Constitutional Legal Commission unanimously established that there is a valid constitutional basis for the adoption of amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH. The Commission also supported the principles of Amendment I to the BiH Constitution with six votes "for", two votes "against" and no "abstained" votes. I believe, and this is also the Commission's view, that this amendment is properly legal and technically implemented, that it is correctly situated in the existing text of the Constitution of BiH, by adding a new position of VI4 behind Article 3 and then that text concerning the Brcko District of BiH, and so far Article VI 4 becomes a member of VI 5. This is a very important issue for BiH. It addresses several important issues, I can also talk about the essence of it later, if any, and now, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I don't think there's any need to talk about it any further, and all I'd like to ask you to do is consider the very kind and manner of public debate that will be conducted on this amendment that you have suggested by your proposal, the proposal as a College. The Constitutional Commission is actually the one who makes decisions and is authorised to organise and 20 has an obligation to organise a public debate. I think it is good that Parliament itself, on your proposal, says its own word, and then we are stronger, then we are stronger, and we will definitely make that decision on how Parliament concludes today, although it is the competence of the Constitutional Commission. It is good that you have suggested that activities be kept synchronised or together with the relevant committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because this amendment must pass the stage and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And there's only one question left here, which is technical, how we're going to organise this public debate. So far, public debates over various documents in BiH have been conducted by this home and led by Parliament and its committees and in these public debates should actually enable all BiH citizens, the government sector, the NGO sector, so all Bosnia and Herzegovina society entities -- to say what they think about it. And it was done by making a general call, so through the media, via the Internet, etc. and then finally, a debate was held here in one of the BiH Parliament's halls run by the Constitutional Commission. I don't mind the Constitutional Commission, or the Constitutional Legal Commission, having a public debate in five of these cities, but then the question is, what about the other cities? But if this is in BiH, I think it would be appropriate for us to call on this committee for a public debate and allow everyone who wants to discuss it to debate and deliver their views here to Parliament. I think that this time – and that practice should be introduced – should include public services in BiH and call through public services and then eventually organise in the Great Hall of Parliament, whoever wants to come, a big public debate. That might be more appropriate to this situation. But if you from the College think that something like this is going to happen, but in a small amount, it should be done in Banja Luka, it should be done in Brcko, it should be done in Tuzla, it should be working in Mostar, and here I am not talking about Zenica right now, I think I'd like it to be there too, then I have nothing against it. There's enough of us, there's 15 of us in the Constitutional Commission, we'll split up and everyone can go to one of those places and we can finally have this debate and they can be on the same day, because it's a short time. So, no matter how much Dom decides today, I have nothing against it, I've just made the practice so far. And as far as the deadlines are concerned, the public hearing can't be shorter than 15 days. I'm asking your term plan, I think it's a short one for two days. We won't shorten the public debate, make it two days longer, but let it be according to the Rules of Procedure that no one can put any kind of objection. This is a matter where all arguments are to be raised for all possible objections. The matter here must be carried out in full correct and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are in last session of the Constitutional Commission, knowing and expecting that today this amendment will receive the support of the two-thirds majority of this home in the first reading, already scheduled a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House which will be held tonight after the session of this House. So, we will sit down immediately and determine the practical aspects of the public debate and practically public debate starts tomorrow. It's 5 tomorrow, it's 20 in 15 days. We may as a commission, let's say, I don't know either, now that I'm not speaking in my mind, a few days before 20, after the debates in these cities that you've suggested, have a big public debate here in the BiH Parliament, and already 20, I think, we can sit down as a commission and give our report. The amendment phase, and that should be known, practically starts to run from the moment the amendment was adopted in the first reading to the next 15 days. So, the amendment phase lasts as long as the public debates and that colleagues know it and that the entire 21st Bosnian Herzegovina public knows it. We're not going to go to the variant here to set 15 days after the debate for this or some additional deadline for the amendment phase, because the amendment phase matches the public debate, and that should be known here. So much so, for now, I will, of course, present my opinion later if there are any political aspects if the debate is..., since no one on this topic has already come forward from the promoter, of course, but this is the position of the Constitutional Commission on those issues that we appreciate that at this stage at the very beginning of the discussion it is necessary to present to this House and present. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24319	Thank you. The speaker, Mr. Beriz Belkić, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24320	I really don't have the ability to electronic, I signed up on my own. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will briefly, and I hope very interesting and precisely state the positions of the Party for BiH on this extremely important issue. I'm asking you not to mind if I remind you of some of the things you probably know, too, but I appreciate them very important. Therefore, the final decision by the arbitration tribunal on Brcko states that the mandate, among other things, will continue until the supervisory mandate has been notified by the tribunal that the Brcko District institutions function effectively and permanently. In order for such a finding to be made at all, and in order to ensure consent, I repeat, the consent of the chief arbitration officer, in this case Mr Roberts Owen, to end the supervisory regime, it is necessary to adopt this amendment. So we absolutely support the need to adopt this amendment, but this amendment should confirm: 1. Confirm the status and authority of the Brcko District that they are precisely defined in the final decision; 2. To enable the institutions of the Brcko District direct access to the BiH Constitutional Court in the event of the Brcko District and the state or its entities dispute, therefore, as many as there are, two. So we will absolutely advocate that the final content and appearance of this amendment meet these conditions. At this moment, the content of this amanadman, in our position, does not meet these conditions. I'm not going to repeat some of the things that we as a party have brought to the public and warned of some shortcomings. I'm going to stay here today, since the debate is in the first reading, on those things that are most important to us. So, this amendment specifies that the Brcko District can be addressed to the BiH Constitutional Court only if such a proposal is supported by the majority of MPs of the District Assembly, which includes at least one-fifth of elected MPs from each constituent nation. This is the first time an ethnic decision system has been introduced into the BiH constitutional system regarding simple requirements. For the Constitutional 22 court to decide on a dispute, according to the current system, as many as 10 individual holders of BiH functions at BiH level, only one quarter of members of each state and entity parliament can submit a request for a constitutional assessment to the BiH Constitutional Court without any restrictions. Therefore, this amendment clearly requires an ethnic political consensus in efforts to ensure a judicial solution to disputes that arise precisely because of the absence of an ethnic political consensus. Our experiences tell us that the means of protection, which we generally don't mind if they're clearly defined and if they're not funds of the blockade, in practice becomes the means of the blockade. However, due to the willingness to co-op, and above all to open the possibility of discussing this amendment publicly, to create the possibility of intervention with him, to meet in one transparent way without speculation the public of BiH, of course, the public, first of all, the Brcko District, to learn about what this amendment is and what this amendment is about, we will support this amendment in the first reading, but in the amendment phase we will intervene in the direction of installing a deblocking mechanism of this kind of solution that we consider to be a kind of blockade. We also expect, in line with what I said at the beginning, so regarding the position of the main arbiter and the duration of the supervision, we expect that the proposer, before making a statement in the second reading, will provide the Arbitr's consent that this amendment meets the conditions under which the supervisory and the conditions under which the Brcko District can function effectively and permanently. So to recapitulate and kind of repeat, we will in the first stage, so in the first reading support this amendment, intervene, but in the second reading we will not support this amendment unless we have two things. Therefore, intervention in the context of the establishment of the resources of the deblockad and the opinion, i.e. the position of the arbitration panel on the content of this amendment, the fulfilment of the conditions of which I have spoken. Thank you. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24321	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I think we must discuss today a broad aspect of giving meaning to this amendment. Something Mr. Džaferović spoke of, technical details and perhaps we should discuss them first. The aim of the Kolegijum was, then, to practice in BiH, except that a public debate was held in this assembly when important documents were discussed, and the amandman I. to the BiH Constitution must be an important document, that the debate should be extended to large cities in BiH. I'm not saying it's not a woman, but I'm also not saying it's not Doboy and Bijeljina and a lot of other cities. All the other organisational problems, I think it's on constitutional legal committees both at home and at home that can be effectively solved. Our administration in Parliament will be at the service of all these activities. On the other hand, I don't want to throw away any rush for such an important document, so these remarks about missing a business one or two days would be good if they were noticed when we bring other legal projects here. You know we're planning sessions every 15 days where there's always one day missing for why we hold sessions on Wednesdays, so 23 that, if we're going to push the max to the finish line, for every legal project, there was a business day missing. That means it's not just this time, it's been a way of working in this House, which so far none of the MPs have had any objections. But, as I said, these are technical details and I hope that they will not cause us not to bring amandman I. to the BiH Constitution that SNSD advocates and believes this is an important day in BiH. It is an important day for each country to discuss amendments to the Constitution, and I think this is not only a mere change of the Constitution with a simple addition to a single amendment, but an amendment to the International Peace Agreement, Part 4 concerning the BiH Constitution. So, according to us, this is legitimate activity of domestic institutions, but with repercussions of international recognition of a legal act. And since, in our opinion, not enough is indicated and this international aspect of this problem, we have decided that in this home, in accordance with Article 150. Rules of Procedure, we suggest certain recommendations and allow me to read them. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the meeting held then and then, adopting amandman I. to the BiH Constitution, on the basis of Article 150. Rules of Procedure, adoption and next recommendation. The BiH presidency, as part of its constitutional powers, is recommended to carry out the following activities: (a) The BiH presidency would be in charge of informing the supervisor for the Brcko District of BiH that the adoption of the BiH Constitution is the final condition for the end of the international supervisory over the District and the establishment of an ambience for the transfer of government to domestic, democratically elected institutions; (b) The BiH Presidency is in charge of informing the UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council that the adoption of the amendment to the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, respectively; (b) The BiH Presidency is in charge of informing the diplomatic communication of the UN's message to the Ban KiMunGeneral of the UN in order to deposit with the other original documents of the Dayton Agreement; (c) The BiH Presidency is tasked with informing all the diplomatic communications of the EU's instruments adopted by the EU's key member states that the EU's role of the EU legislation and the EU's role of the EU legislation has been taken by the EU's representatives of the EU's representatives; 24 We consider and suggest that this is not something we will vote on today, but that this be something that we will discuss and that, hopefully, the adoption of amandman I. to the Constitution we also vote on these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24322	Let's take the turn, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24323	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. What I'm about to say, I'm saying on my personal behalf... because the views of the Party for BiH have already been expressed by my predecessor, actually Mr. Belkić. Although there are conflicting opinions in certain legal circles whether or not there is a basis for making such an amendment at all, for the simple reason that the Dayton Peace Agreement is not fully implemented, I, however, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, have, in my view and in my opinion, chosen to support that there is a constitutional basis for a legal body that can submit amendments and I voted for this amendment, for the existence of a constitutional basis. Certainly, one of those two members who were against the principles of this amendment was me. I voted that this amendment has no principles and that it has not fulfilled that form which is obliged to bring a certain legal act or part of a legal act into Parliament. I would start with this if this were a disastrously bad English translation into the languages of the Yugoslav peoples, not to say, Bosnian or Serbian or Croatian. In fact, the construction of a sentence does not correspond, in any case, to our language, which is a matter of lecturers working on the final text of this amendment to make sure that it corrects it. But with several examples, I will state why I voted against the principle and why this amendment does not actually have certain conditions to be adopted in this form if certain amendments are not adopted after a public debate that would correct this text. I would not repeat what Belkić said that an ethnic political consensus is being introduced in attempts to secure a judicial solution to the dispute, because if you read the Constitution well, our existing constitution, then you will see that none of these proposals for the launch of the constitutional dispute is actually on the ethnic principle, but on the function they perform, and in any case in a certain way that exists. Secondly, in the BiH Constitution, the BiH Court has exclusive powers that are listed. This amendment mentions only the jurisdiction of the Court, rather than excluding jurisdiction, which is fundamentally very different from certain other constitutional solutions that exist in our Constitution. Certainly, a certain statement has been introduced that has never existed in our Constitution, nor has it been, which is that there is, here I will quote 'one or more entities', while in the Constitution in 22 places is actually spoken only with the words 'both' or 'two entities', which, when I think about it, leads to thinking that maybe I'm wrong, because I'm not a lawyer, but I've been in politics for a long time and I think it's falling off certain of our legal norms. 25 The second thing that causes error in me, or fear better said, is that I think that this amendment sets out certain things that could lead to certain marked problems in making certain decisions in the future. In the opening part is about the sovereignty of BiH over the Brcko District – and that is, if you take a dictionary from Kostić, a dictionary of foreign words,... which is actually the only one that is relevant for the Yugoslav languages, because it is unconquerable – then you will see that sovereignty is a government or that... arises from that word independently of other countries, which is good in any case for the Brcko District to be introduced under this category. But the bad translation is down there when they say that entities are the owners of this territory, in a way, so a foreign word is added to the condominum, which in translation, again according to Kostić, means that it is the rule of two states over a certain space. Entities are not like states, and normally that word in my opinion should not stand in the constitutional amendment. All of this results: In order to pass this amendment, there must be a really good public debate and, on the other hand, no certain interpretations... if this amendment were to be adopted in such a text, a certain amendment phase must be implemented in which there will certainly be an amendment and certain things can be corrected and that only afterwards we can approach what my predecessors have said about praise or some indications, communications, etc. It is my vision, and as an MP, normally, I have certain powers, I have certain rights to submit certain amendments, which I have not denied myself and to tell you after the public debate what will and how it will be, we will see. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24324	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24325	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I think, above all, that it is not appropriate that, at least on such an important issue as the amandman to the Constitution of BiH, the proposal of the Council of Ministers does not need to explain its proposal. As it is a very important moment for BiH, as my predecessors have said, and this importance produces the submission and debate on this amendment, I feel the need to put forward very briefly the principles that will guide me as MPs and the DNZ during the debate on this and the vote on this amendment. The submission of this amendment, beyond a doubt, has a number of fundamentals. First, the Brcko District was one of BiH's neural points before and after, and therefore it is very important to finally remove the Brcko District from that blacklist to make it as short as possible. Secondly, at this current moment of division, mistrust and general disappointment, it is very important to reach consensus on at least one issue such as the Brcko District, such as the submission of this amandman I. to the Constitution, and to show that political leaders, political parties and politicians in this country are ready and able to agree on anything. That would be a good message for BiH citizens and those of course who are following BiH's progress on the European path. 26 Third, resolving the Brcko District's status and reaching consensus on the issue is, I would say, good for a certain twist and more optimism in the negotiations and discussions on further changes to the BiH Constitution that are inevitable on BiH's European path. The solution to the Brcko District proposed in this amendment is, indeed, unusual, and the text of this amendment itself is a bit unscathed and I am sure that at this stage of public debate and amendment action and these shortcomings will be removed, but for me at this point it is more important than reaching a consensus on that solution, and of course good will and trust will in time and improve the solution and text of the amendment proposal. So, just for the above reasons, this amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH will get my support in this home, because I am bothering it with a small step forward in this dreary political situation in BiH. Of course, I also support the college's proposed conclusion on the public debate on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24326	Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24327	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to have a new constitution here on the agenda today, as the Council of Ministers has assumed commitment 3. 1. In 2007 at the conclusion of the agreement of the ruling six-member on the appointment of the Council of Ministers, and then the Constitutional Court does not have to work on some bulletins, as counterpart Živković initially said, but rather works on the basis of the Constitution adopted in this House in two letters, three languages, and that we have all the quality regulated, and the Brcko District will also be regulated. But it's better than nothing. Brcko District is one municipality, one example for building a multiethnic society in BiH and we in the People's Party Work for the better think that everything we can do to make this municipality, that this district works successfully, that we should do so, so that on behalf of the People's Party, I will support this amendment by working for the better, and I think we should all do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24328	Hadji Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24329	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Lijanović said that luck today would have proposals for a reformed BiH Constitution. However, it is obvious that nothing can be arranged in this country and that it is possible to go only one step at a time. Since we're going one step at a time, there are always traps behind it and someone should be a loser and a winner. Unlike my colleagues, when it comes to the amendment's proposal, I think that in a few things this amendment should be clear in line with both the BiH Constitution and the current 27 Dayton Constitution. I, like the predecessors, will also support this amendment in my first reading, but in the second not, surely, no amendments. And if they appear as such amendments at a public hearing, if they do not appear they will be proposed by me as MPs, and if anyone else suggests normally that I will agree. And this is as follows: we have here in the first paragraph of this amendment where it speaks of the entity's condom, we see no reason not to comply with the BiH Constitution, because in the Constitution of BiH today says: 'Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska.' I think this is supposed to be clear in this attitude, and that's absolutely acceptable to us. Furthermore, in attitude (2), also,'more entities'; we believe that there should be no more, but that there should be two entities, because clearly the Constitution says they have two entities. If there is more, then it simply leads us to that story and those media stories that there's a possibility of something happening behind, what we can suggest, are those regions, is that three, four or five entities. I don't think we should be involved in this right now if there's no power left to reform the entire Constitution. Furthermore, when it comes to the number of MPs who can go to the Constitutional Court, where at least one-fifth of the elected ones speak, I think it should be at least one-third and in that case it would be serious. What concerns me – because I know that all the MPs or club presidents had a conversation with the OHR and there is some guarantee that this will go on like this, because everyone has promised to go through this – what my question was, since I had the same conversation, is that I am concerned that this amendment should not stand anywhere in the Constitutional Court that it can exercise jurisdiction regarding the status and authority of the Brcko District. This amendment simply cuts with reason. And given how the international community works and works, it's important to her, even if it's in an explanation, it creates one uncertainty about what can happen tomorrow. The promise was that it wasn't there. However, I found in an explanation that said: 'Amendman does not exclude the possibility of the Constitutional Court exercising jurisdiction in matters relating to the status and authority of the Brcko District.' In order for this to be in line with the BiH Constitution, which is valid, I think a new paragraph should be added where it should stand for the BiH Constitutional Court to exercise jurisdiction in matters relating to the status and authority of the Brcko District of BiH, with the consent of both entities, the Federation of BiH and the RS. It would also be acceptable for me as an MP and a party from which I come in a second reading to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24330	I apologize to Mr. Sefer Halilović, I skipped a moment, he was in line before Mr. Mitrović. Here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope, I'm sure it wasn't on purpose, that's how he overlooked it. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24332	Who knows more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24333	You never know. Let me say that I hope to be brief. This amendment on Brcko is to be adopted and it is finally necessary to complete the Supervision in Brcko, but I would like to point to some, in my opinion, legal indifference and contradictions in the text itself which, I fear, at a later stage can cause confusion and great problems. And that's why I think this amendment should be written more specifically. This is where it is fragmented, and here they are mixed in this, in the very language of this gymnastics, the pears and apples and I'm afraid that one day this may be the source of conflict and misunderstanding again, and even if the Constitution should be written in a clear language, in a precise language, and that it leaves no possibility of double interpretation. In amandman I. itself, he said that 'District Brcko is under BiH sovereignty', and now that I do not read further, 'whose territory is in the common property of the entity'. Now in the bracket is here, like a thorn in the eye, a single word that is called a condom and which, in my opinion, is causing the whole legal confusion here. I looked in the dictionary of foreign words. Dr. Crescent. Trajić says the condom, I quote, is "the joint rule of two or several states over some territory". So, if the condom is the common rule of two or several states over a territory, then it is contrary to this first sentence in the Amendman where it says that 'District Brcko is under BiH sovereignty'. And this... brings, this now creates an even bigger confusion when it says that the condom is the property of an entity, i.e. the Brcko District is the property of an entity, and under the sovereignty of BiH. Well, now what's this here, what's actually what here? What's under sovereignty, what's property, and who's the owner here in the end, if it's a condom? This is where the word "condominium" was inserted, which actually makes the whole, in my opinion, making the whole mess. In second place, in interpreting foreign words, I found that 'condominium is a common and uniform sovereign government of two or more states in a territory that does not stand under whose exclusive sovereignty'. So if there's a condom here owned by two or more states, then slowly get to the small door, I'm asking now whether the statehood of the entity is slowly introduced here at the small door through this definition. And finally, what in our Constitution, anyway, we can't talk to ourselves here, sometimes, so we object to what we get in the Bosnian, Serbian or Croatian language, and now past those three languages here that we can't possibly, sometimes, represent a problem, although we basically know that they're no problem, we're now putting a word of condominium here that's used for the last time around 1864 to 1866: a condom of Prussia-Austria over two provinces, and a British-Egyptian over Sudan from 1895 to 1956, and a French-British over Archipelago, New Hebrids from 1906. My question here and my dilemma is: where does this word here that brings in... the whole mess and lets this amendment be interpreted as it suits us. If this word were to be thrown out, this condom, then the rest would somehow be put in order, but this word "condominium" that creates a whole legal chaos and brings into a situation of different interpretations, I'm afraid we're not going to go to the green branch. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24334	Zlatko Lagumdžija. Please listen to me for a minute, please. May I have your attention, Mr. Ajanović, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24335	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to join the debaters who have pointed out the importance of this amendment, the importance of the very act of amendment to the Constitution. I'm glad that from those who have shown their reserves that they have the willingness to keep working on the amendment thing on condition that certain things are being specified, and I think that some of the precision that is required here is not really necessary, because the more detailed reading shows that it is standing here. But what's good, which is that finally the mystic has been removed from one principle that by the amendment action on the Constitution we practically only then legalize the Constitution. The constitution we are now working on is the legal constitution of this country. And we do not legalise him with this amendment, with whatever precision, but this is the Constitution that is legalized in the institutions of the Republic of BiH and its institutions after Dayton and before signing in Paris. That's when he's legalized. I think these recommendations, too, that are given here, are unnecessary, because they can lead us into new mists. Namely, by adopting this amandman I. to the Constitution – to be clear and it is good to have someone clear, possibly – I may have misunderstood, but we are not changing the Peace Agreement. The Peace Agreement we do not change the amendment of the Constitution in accordance with the Constitution's prescribed way. So, we can possibly inform, if it is necessary to inform someone about the Peace Agreement, we are not making any changes to the Peace Agreement, we can possibly inform some that there has been no application of Annex 7 as part of the Peace Agreement, but that is another topic. In fact, we, as an Annex of the Peace Agreement, are changing in accordance with the Constitution itself. Well, in the end, when we transferred responsibilities according to aneks 4 to the state, we didn't inform anyone that we had changed the Peace Agreement, because we didn't do it. We only acted in accordance with the Constitution of this country and the good political will to make us feel better. What needs to be clarified here, and that's all I'm saying just because I'm offered the fact, I really expected the Council of Ministers as a proposing, not for the first time or for the last time, to give us an explanation, so I don't know what would be on a tough nut like this. But what's there is. I'm just for that very reason obliged to say a few things. Since we, as SDP, are not in the Constitutional Legal Commission, through the will of the parliamentary majority, we support that through the Constitutional Commission and through the Council of Ministers, go further into the constitutional upgrade which I hope, the next time it comes before Parliament, or there will be a new constitution in line with the January 2007 promise, or there will be one package that will go beyond what is, unfortunately, whether, in my opinion, so fortunately, fall. But it would be good if we finally got more in front of Parliament than what fell. And this is a good step to do it. This is also an indication that it's not possible to do this with your own strengths, to be very clear. Since what we have now is the result of a single process and is in the media, and I am sorry that the promoters did not say that; namely, this is the result of a process led by the international community. 30 SDP will support this in its first reading and I am glad that BiH party colleagues, unlike in April 2006, are willing to let go at least the first reading. Then you didn't even let us read first. If you'd played the first reading, but what's there, it's no time to regret it for milk spilled. Namely, I want to point out a few important things in this amendment, since I'm talking about principles. The first principle that is satisfied with this amendment – we support it. Now I'm talking about principles that are acceptable to us and why we support it to move on. The first principle says Brcko is in BiH institutions' jurisdiction, under BiH's sovereignty. So, Brcko is under BiH's sovereignty. And Brcko's powers are defined by the BiH Constitution. It's an important thing to find in the Constitution. It's an important principle. Next important thing. I agree with those who ask the condominum question and that it can make some mistakes. However, if we had acted this way, we would not have agreed to the entity's word on time, because when we received the word entity in 1995, then no one in this country knew what the word entity meant, so we explained to people what it was. Because the entity, also by Klajić, means a rounded whole, which is actually a state. But we're told an entity. Don't worry, it's an entity, just so you don't think it's a state. So, the word "condominum" doesn't need much to worry us, because in our languages that are in all three translations means the same, in their common, in all three languages of our people we say common property, so... So here's the condom I'm treating, it's exactly explained what it is, that it's a common property. Who? Well, the entity. And what are entities? If you look at various dictionaries, you can be confused about what entities are. And we already know what entities are, because the entity is defined by the Constitution. So when the Constitution defined it as a sovereign state, then it's clear that these are not other states, even if some parts of that state thought they were states. What is also good and what this Constitution finally defines as the unit of local self-government of Brcko as the unit of local self-government that has institutions and laws. This is what I'm saying, Mr. Belkić, because we need to break one mystic. What we have in front of us is not a Prussian deal, because in Prud, something else was agreed, to make constitutional law. This is, thank Bog, the Constitution. This isn't even a Banja Luka deal, because in Banja Luka, I have here in front of me if anyone is interested, anyway, that's what everybody got, this is the signature of three presidents what they agreed in Banja Luka, that this is from Banja Luka in front of us, this would have been kicked off our feet, perhaps by the votes of some MPs whose presidents signed it. But about that, then, it's an internal party thing. Because in Banja Luka it was signed and, thank Bog, it was decided by this amendment that Brcko had laws, which in Banja Luka was skipped. Then in Banja Luka, it is said that these laws are passed by all lawmakers, and by this condition, thank Bog, it is defined that the laws in the matter of Brcko are passed only by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That's a good motive to do this. The fourth thing that has been well done here is that the Constitutional Court is competent, not only between entities and the District but between BiH and the District. And it is fortunate to have escaped from the Banja Luka Agreement under which... before the Constitutional Court could only come from Brcko. According to this amendment, this is why it is acceptable for us, before the Constitutional Court can come as it says here in the Amendment very clearly and precisely, not only one fifth and a half majority but also means that when it comes from Brcko it must have members of each people, but it can also come from other, by the Constitution of authorised, drivers defined by the Constitution without this amendment. In Banja Luka, it is agreed that he can only come from Brcko. And this amendment, thank Bog, with the help of the Arbitrarian representative, has come to a favourable solution. So for us from the SDP, this is a 31 major shift, and I'm afraid that if some of the recommendations that have already been heard here were to go one step back, and some of the recommendations that say that Brcko, such as my colleague Belkić, (I may have misunderstood, I apologize if I was wrong), Brcko can only run in such a way. It is true that Brcko can only run in such a way, but thank Bog, not only but also in such a way. In other words, from Brcko to launch a constitutional dispute, it is necessary to have the agreement of all of Brcko's representatives because of the specificity of Brcko. What is also good and I am a little surprised here, all MPs... (or as it is called, MPs, right in Brcko) signed a statement calling for, and unanimously adopted by the Brcko Assembly,...this Parliamentary Assembly to adopt this amendment. Now, that surprises me a little bit here. I expected, right to tell you, that today we have a ceremony in which we agree that as soon as we get to one positive move and I expected from some of the gentlemen who have – this, Mr. Mitrović, does not apply to you, nor Mr. Halilović, nor Mr. Lijanović, because you have no MPs in Brcko – but in Brcko there are both SDS and SNSD, SNSD even has a mayor, and in Brcko, even a constitutional and concentration authority is being established to move forward as quickly as possible in Brcko, to show how things can be solved in Brcko as a visual example for the whole of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24336	I'm sorry, Mr. Lagumdžija, I don't know if you have any direction around time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24337	Yeah, well, Mr. Belkić, I'm really gonna end up with this. I think it is good, in our position, thanks to the amendments we have ahead of us, we can still see that it is possible to move forward, but also thanks to the amendments we have ahead of us, that is, to the amandman I. which we have before us, we can see that we still need to introduce custody before those who have agreed in Prud and Banja Luka. Because if we had what was agreed on in Prud and Banja Luka right now, we would be here in a difficult fight that we couldn't get out of and be sure that what was signed in Prud and Banja Luka today doesn't believe that we would have half the majority in this House. And it's a good thing you moved away from Prud and Banja Luka and came to the interests of all of us together. And that's why the SDP is willing to support this in the first reading, and naturally, in the second reading, the SDP is willing to support it unless it essentially moves away from the things I've been talking about. Thank you very much. Mr. Belkić, I apologize if I've timed out, but you know constitutional matter, the historical thing, we're changing. Still, even you accept that we're going to change the amendments, that's big for me, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24338	She's wasting her time on that milk.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24339	Yeah, well, thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24340	You know, around that milk, it was sour. Replica, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24341	Thank you. I'm very glad that Mr. Lagumdžija started with the recommendations that the SNSD has made here with the debate on this amendment and the fact that only one was found, it seems to me, a minor error, more... where should be put in point b) instead of the amendment. Here, we immediately agree to do so, even though we don't feel that we've made much of a mistake. The other thing is that you said that this Constitution, Annex 4 of the Peace Agreement, is even legalised, it is written in Article XII of the Entry into force – the way the Constitution of BiH enters into force and what is put out of force, that practically no Republic of BiH could adopt any constitution after that, because it was put out of force by the Constitution of the Republic of BiH and thus could not be a assembly. Under three, the only reason why we entered into the amendments and additions to the BiH Constitution is to shut down the Supervisor's Office for Brcko, give full capacity to the institutions legally elected in the Brcko District and restore the part of the sovereignty that BiH has lost. That's our reason, and I know what the other reasons are for why they did it. And I would like to discuss here any amendment that you, as the leaders of the opposition, have agreed with other opposition leaders and brought here to discuss both this and that amendment. I think it's enough in this country to be constantly criticized without proposing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24342	Replica: Sadik Ahmetović, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24343	I'll try to define it as, come on, a false quote, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24344	Who's the replica? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24345	But in order to achieve any upgrade, it takes some kind of base, you know that, Mr Lagumdžija, and I think that the base that is in any negotiations is good for BiH in solving all the problems that are good for all BiH citizens needs a certain base that has experienced a certain kind of upgrade that is acceptable to you. 33 What I mean is that we have institutions in BiH where you are, in a certain way, not an opposition. There is the BiH presidency as one legitimate body in BiH that could also come with a proposal for a solution for Brcko in the last two years. So, in the end, I welcome your decision to support this amendment to Brcko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24346	Now let's take the line of the line. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24347	I thank you, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24348	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24349	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24350	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that after the debate began at this point in the agenda I was concerned and I listened to the first discussions of the Honorable President of the Constitutional Committee who told us a correct story about how important it is when the Constitution is changed in some parliament, so I soon wrote to the Rules of Procedure to see that I didn't accidentally remember something, so there was a proposal for an amendment that was authorized by the promoters, so who could and who should give an opinion if not the promoter, so I saw that there was no opinion from the Bureau. In the materials, at least I have, I do not have the Presidency's opinion, although I know with confidence that it is from the House of Representatives, immediately after the reception and inclusion in the procedure of this amendment, a request to the Bureau to give its opinion, since it is not the author of this amendment. As the chairman of the Council of Ministers did not address us today, I came to doubt the importance of this document. Because when something important is then the chairman, it would be the order, right, to explain on behalf of the Council of Ministers, that's where I agree with a number of debaters, but after this presentation of the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija, it's even less clear to me what position we are in. First of all, I don't know who's proposing these amendments. Either someone's lying to us or not the Council of Ministers is proposing these amendments. I have a document saying the Council of Ministers is proposing these amendments. So we know who is sitting in the Council of Ministers and I don't know whose project it is if the Council of Ministers proposes amendments. Perhaps the honourable representative knows more than I do whose project it is, and perhaps therefore the members of the Council of Ministers have not explained their project. I mean, I'm saying this right now with the reserve, because maybe, if it wasn't their project, but then it was expected to be explained by the one whose project it was. 34 For a moment, after the inspired explanation of the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija, I thought it was his project. But here I don't have it signed in the documents I got. He wouldn't mind, because Mr Lagumdžija is one of the possible mandated constitutional amendments, so he can absolutely legitimately propose much better amendments than this amendment. I think it's unnecessary. So, I think it's unnecessary, here, I'm just showing how everything can be checked out. I could go on, but it really doesn't make sense within this agenda point, if we seriously think about the BiH Constitution, and if we really really think that the serious business of changing one letter in the BiH Constitution is, so that the cartoonisation of this solution with Prud, Banja Luka, doesn't know either, there's no need. You know, the Council of Ministers is made up the way it's made up. And what we have in front of us today is the product of their work, bad or good. We've also heard comments about it. So, not to be that they've done something ideal, but it's a product of their work and we can address them and ask them for an interpretation of why something stands or doesn't stand. I don't see anyone else I'd ask here. So there's no need to call and summon anyone, whom we don't have here at this point in this room or who may have, at some point, participated in, in some kind of conversation and arrangement, but he's really not a formal proposer of what we have ahead of us. What we have ahead of us is the fruit, the result of work, of good or bad, of the Council of Ministers and let's look at it that way. And I have to say, we as MPs have been denied – I don't know why, but they could write it to us – for the opinion of the BiH Presidency, which would certainly be called on to make such an important point of view. At least, either it's good or it's bad, or it's perfect, or it's completely suggested that we don't adopt it. I think that the silence of the Presidency on this very important matter, to me personally, is worrying and I must say, here, to an esteemed colleague, that he mentions some who are not in the institutions here, it would be good, through party communications to ask members of the Presidency what they think about this, even if that's how we find out the Presidency's opinion of this very important document.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24351	Now, Mr. Lagumdžija, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24352	I thank you, Mr. Belkić. It's good, they say... that I've waited for the representatives of all three constituent nations to replicate, that, if you need it, Mr. Lozančić, the Proposer, I'm willing to be the promoter of this, if that was the essence of your intervention. In fact, the fact is that I gave my consent, on behalf of the SDP, on behalf of our club of MPs, before this came to the Council of Ministers. So we don't have to lie here, this is a serious thing for this country to lie about. On February 4th, Mr Ahmetović, I received a letter from the president of your party calling on me to support the Prudish and Banja Luka Agreement. I can give you that, and you should as a member of the leadership to have it. In that letter is the contribution: the amendment signed by Dragan Čović, Sulejman Tihić and Milorad Dodik in Banja Luka on January 26th, here it is for you here. If you need it, I'll give it to you. What's signed here, what I got in this letter, 35 was unacceptable to us. The promoters in this matter are the ones in charge of arbitration. Nice to meet you, too, but I'm glad the promoters got involved in this. When I say "proposers," I mean both. And those who ultimately as the Council of Ministers have proposed and those who have really agreed this with all the people who have 28 votes in this House, probably. So, for those reasons, we're willing to support this. Mr. Živković, there was no reason for you to be replicating me now for a very simple reason. I had a lot more to say, and I skipped. But let me remind you. So, without the parliament of the Republic of BiH that adopted the Dayton Agreement, you, I, too, wouldn't be sitting here today. And talk about if you don't know what this is about, but if I didn't open up the '95 story to this, here's an apology if you're thinking of replicating this, I'm pulling what I said. So I have no intention of going back to '95. But these are notorious facts, so we all know that. I think that without a decision and thanks to the decisions of the Republic of BiH and its parliament, we have the Dayton Agreement, we have a legal transition from the Republic of BiH to what is called the Dayton, Today's Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why we have legal continuity and that I don't give you a lecture, you're a doctor like me for some other things than constitutional law, so you can get from your doctoral perspective and I'll get us away with it. I don't know, Halida, why are you turning to me? So I would also ask you, I would ask you really not to go back and, well, now I'm going to tell you the final reason why I think it's good to get to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24353	Try to say it within three minutes, you have three minutes of replication, it's already expired.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24354	I will, Mr. Živković. I will, thank you. So if this is you, if you're doing this just to shut down the OHR, you still have a lot of work to do. Fourth thing. One of the reasons why we support such an amendment... the legal order and constitutional order in this country and in this way the resolutions of '99, which were passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 7 March '99 at the proposal of the RS Prime Minister, who then resigned on 5 March '99 because he did not want to accept the arbitration decision and is now accepting it, again, as Prime Minister. And that is why we also now accept this in this reading and in the second reading. If there is no change, you have our votes for another reading. Otherwise, try to bring back another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24355	Thank you. Replica, First Vice-President, Dr. Milorad Živković. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24356	Just because it's a serious thing, there's nothing to get out of this room that's not resolved, and what's wrong, and it was an incorrect quote, I want to correct. When you spoke here about the Constitution and the legalization of that constitution, you mentioned the Republic of BiH. I said that this Constitution, in accordance with Article XII, and I will read to you: 'The Constitution takes effect after the signing of the General Framework Agreement as a constitutional act, which replaces and repeals the Constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.' That's when he came into effect. Not after any republic of BiH could neither bring the international agreement. That was the reason. If I get it wrong, I apologize. I thought you said so, and that's why I replicated. And the other thing, I also didn't say we were doing this to close the OHR. I said that the Office of Supervisors for Brcko would be closed in order to transfer to the authorities, legally elected, all competences and to bring back part of BiH's sovereignty. That's what I said and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24357	Next on the list of replicas is the respected representative Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24358	Thank you, Mr. President or the other vice president, it doesn't matter, after all. Some people have already brought out some of the replicas that I wanted to say, which refers to Mr. Živković. I was an MP for the Republic of BiH, and the Republic of BiH has adopted the Dayton Agreement, along with the Dayton Agreement and the Dayton Constitution, and that is undeniable. Regardless of what I didn't vote for it, I was against it, but here I want to say one more thing that the same day of the Republic of BiH, Parliament of the Republic of BiH has also made one conclusion or one decision saying - if the Dayton Agreement is not fully implemented... that the decision will no longer apply. Therefore, the Republic of BiH existed as a recognised state, its parliament could ratify the agreement and give authority to the then presidency president so that he could sign it in Paris. And that's one fact that no one can dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24359	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija wanted to, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24360	Third already replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24361	Wait a minute, please, it's not a third, it's a second replica. If you want before or after Mr Bećirović. Thirty-seven, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24362	I think that today, just when we talk about changes to the BiH Constitution, we should make it very clear and put an end to this story when it comes to the Republic of BiH and today's BiH. Since '92. '95. the year under international law is the only legal Republic of BiH. There is no international law nor Republika Srpska nor Herceg Bosnia nor anything else, nor the Federation of BiH, etc. That says, among other things, the BiH Constitution. He says very clearly that today's BiH state continues its legal existence under international law and that it is a legal follower of the Republic of BiH. So it's very important that we say here, let's point out, and that we no longer have any dispute over this issue at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24363	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24364	Mr. Živković, since you read Article XII of the Constitution very authoritatively and correctly read it,... which speaks of the entry into force and which says that "The Constitution takes effect after the signing of the General Framework Agreement as a constitutional act, which replaces and repeals the Constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina", this refers to the signature in Paris when the Dayton Peace Agreement is signed. And the assumption that this is done was the decision of the Assembly of the Republic of BiH, which is very clear, practical, and specifies the spirit and letter of the member I Constitution that speaks of the continuity of the Republic of BiH and today, and there is no need for us to return to these historical categories. These are things that, uh, for someone they're as stupid as my colleague's, and for someone as facts as they are for me. So, Mr. Živković, I thank you for allowing me to say this, to clarify, at least so that there wouldn't be any misunderstanding between the two of us about technical matters.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24365	Thank you. The line has now been reported by Honourable Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. There's obviously going to be a little bit of a problem with these technical things. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24366	The Honorable Chairman, so here, you see, when we come to a subject like this that is very serious, it's always said -- we wouldn't open that topic, we won't go back to that year -- but it's the main topic. Well, we're not going back to SRBiH in the old system now and when it's the Republic of BiH. It's known that it was all historic, history will show. But exactly the replica of Mr Lagumdžija and Denis Bećirović's exposure is constantly being conducted. And here, they're doing well today, and I don't think 38 would complicate the situation to support this when they've given their support, but we won't be coming back all the time, and it's always a dominant topic. It's always the main floor a), so if someone doesn't remember it, it's going to be b), so if you still think about what we think or what you don't mean by c) and the construction of different structures. So we will always be in a position – it was continuity. What continuity? Well, it says everything there, my people. Is that where it says it? Another thing, now I'd have a replica. Where does the state of BiH say? Come on, don't get complicated right now, it doesn't say anywhere. The state of BiH does not say anywhere in the Constitution. But we all know she's a country. What are we gonna call her? We're not gonna call it air, we're not gonna call it a spaceship. So, that terminology that you gentlemen are using, it always has meaning for something else that she is, I don't want to make an insunation that's behind the hill somewhere. And that's why we shouldn't be complicated about these things today, whether it was a state, a republic, a socialist, like this, like that, today we have what we have. And now let's just reach a consensus on what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24367	Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations, NGOs, means of information, dear guests, as regards this Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, the SDS will support it in the first reading, but in the second reading it will only support it provided that certain amendments, which point to the need to be delivered in the meantime, can be concluded that we will act in amendment and then, after the outcome of these amendments, we will decide how we will react in the second reading. I suggest that the amendment phase does not last as well as the public debate phase, as proposed after 15 days, but I suggest that the amendment phase must take at least a day or two after the public debate so that public debate can sum up what should possibly be given through the amendment phase in the form of a second reading, if we have a public debate and an amendment phase and conclude at the same time that we will not be able to get what we wanted out of the public debate. Furthermore, as far as this existing constitution of ours is concerned, he is, and we didn't make him. It was made by foreigners and there are many foreign words in it, and I suggest that in the future, and it is quite normal and justifiable, but in the future, when we make changes and changes to our Constitution, we should try to make sure that as every country in the world the Constitution writes in its own language that its citizens can do it as best... except where there is no replacement for any side of the abbreviations and some foreign word in that native language, and our native language is so rich that there can only be one word that there is no adequate replacement. Therefore, it is my recommendation that when we make changes and complements, in fact, either amendment or future in these amendments, we try to install our words so that average people don't have to look for the encyclopaedia of certain words of the Constitution as the highest legislative act. 39 And finally to tell Mr. Lagumdžija that you have confused something, Mr. Lagumdžija, in this count. The SDS has no MPs from Brcko...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24369	Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24370	Mr. Chairman, I hope I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24371	Of course, I'll ask my colleagues, I'll ask my colleagues that Mr. Dokić can speak without distraction. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to your colleagues. I'm going to say a few sentences on this issue on behalf of the Party of Democratic Progress whose member I am and here I am an MP. I'd like to remind you that the story of this doesn't last for a few weeks or a few months, as it wants to be shown here, it lasts for almost a year. And at the very beginning, I want to be quite clear that the PDP represented a different approach to the solution to this question. We have advocated that the best way to do so far is to treat Brcko and Brcko District to agree on the final status of Brcko District to each other. However, since there was no political will to resolve this in this way, we, as political legislators, respecting the fact that compromises and compromise solutions that are acceptable to the majority must be made, in this context we have accepted and have already given our agreement that such an amendment enters the first stage, i.e. in the first reading here in Parliament. What do we want that way? First, by entering the parliamentary phase, we will have the opportunity, already after today's session, through public debates that throughout BiH people will declare this amendment and after that, the PDP will take its final position. I'm not going to say here and condition, as some very well-intentioned ones have previously sent us a message that is exclusive, I'm not going to say that we will be exclusive if we don't accept this or that, but what we're going to insist on is that this amendment has no ambiguity in itself in the sense that it can be interpreted one way or another, and some of the debaters have previously pointed out that it could be interpreted one way or another. And I think we need to take this question very seriously, in this context, to show good will, not one of our own, through our own principle, under quotes, some political power that keeps bringing us back one step at a time. And another reason, even if someone liked him or didn't like him, which is why we accepted that this topic is being discussed in this way through the additions of the legal constitution – I would completely underline it once more, someone had previously said – is one of our views, the PDP position, the political position that decisions should be made in BiH by those chosen by the citizens of BiH. That BiH should have 40 sovereignty in every respect as well as other countries that want to be EU members. You know that, whether or not you want it, that BiH is not now. By stopping the work of supervisors in Brcko and withdrawing the OHR, i.e. by growing the OHR in the European Commission's office, BiH is restoring itself to the necessary sovereignty so that they can legally and legitimately compete tomorrow as a candidate for EU membership. So this is also one of the big reasons why we agreed to get this into this phase and this way of solving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24373	Šefik Džaferović. I've still got Denis Bećirović on report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will now present my discussion as an MP, and I think I have the authority to speak on behalf of the SDA Club on this subject. So, I believe that when this amendment is interpreted by a well-intentioned, well-informed and properly educated man, it is not possible to draw the conclusion that there is nothing controversial in this amendment and that this amendment that we need to accept and, of course, the SDA will participate with all those who propose something smarter or something better, but provided that for such a change there is an agreement of all those whose consent is required for this amendment to pass in Parliament. This means, at the same time, that the SDA will not participate in the improvements in the text only with part of those who are relevant and that this amendment will fail tomorrow. The SDA, therefore, will know who is in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly if certain repairs are possible. But if there is no agreement of all, the SDA will keep this text and will not participate in any revisions that could basically eventually lead to the fall of this amendment. We will try very hard not to fall for this game and preserve it if nothing is the original text of this amendment and adopt it. Because I'm saying, for someone who wants to be well-intentioned, who wants to interpret it in the context of a complete constitution, this is a good amendment and he, in our opinion, contains nothing that is controversial. We will also not agree to any additional requirements, in terms of some recommendations that raise some other questions. This is amandman I. to the Constitution. It is being voted upon, and it is known that the Constitution is prescribed in the way and in which the procedure occurs amanamna. In the debate, and I need to say a few sentences about it, we're talking about interpreting the concept of condominium, of the concept of sovereignty. I ask you to observe the BiH Constitution as a whole, the complete Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution as a whole. When we adopt this amendment, we will have one position in Article VI of the Constitution of BiH more, and this is going to be added to Article 4, which is this amendment, and the existing attitude 4 becomes position 5, and then the Constitution of BiH is richer for one member's position, and all of this must be read as Annex 4 41, which is allowed, as Annex 4 itself has prescribed, changed and must be observed in the context of the complete Dayton Peace Agreement. That's one thing. It's another thing. The issue of arbitration for Brcko is set out in Article 5. Anexa 2 which speaks of the inter-entity line of the Dayton Peace Agreement, both entities in BiH, and Article I of the BiH Constitution speaks of the continuity of the Republic of BiH which continues to exist under international law with a changed name, now the BiH state and with a changed internal structure as follows in internationally recognised borders. Brcko has never been outside BiH, it has always been in BiH and will always be in the BiH state and I don't think there should be any unnecessary confusion about it. When it comes to this ethnic address to the Constitutional Court, it is true that in this amendment there are obligations agreed by one-fifth of every nation's club in the Brcko District Assembly so that they can apply to the Constitutional Court, but it is also true that what we heard in the debate, when we look at this amendment, that there are no powers and members of the Presidency and the chairman and vice-president of the Council of Ministers and the chairmans of both the Houses of Parliament and their deputies – one-quarter of the BiH Parliament, or entity parliaments of the corresponding majority. We still have what we call today. an ethnic address to the Constitutional Court, as the Constitutional Court decides on two types of problems. He assesses the constitutionality of our laws after they have been passed, but also at the request of the ethnic club in the House of Nations to declare before the adoption of the law whether a matter is a matter of vital interest of the constituent people or not. So we now have in our system, through the House of Peoples, an ethnic address to the Constitutional Court. It is important that there is no ethnic quorum and there is no ethnic decision in the Constitutional Court, and that is what should never be allowed in BiH, if we want to have the proper passage of decisions made in the BiH Parliament. Here, too, a word has been mentioned which has recently brought great attention to the public, and that is when it comes to the appeal of the Constitutional Court and the relations of one entity or more entities. So the formulation is now one entity or more entities, but that's what the current Constitution is talking about in the right place. Let's not read the translations of the Constitution, let's take the original English version, and you'll see that they're talking about entities or entities there. So, entity or entity. The word entities and two words more entities, for me are synonyms. It is not said in that provision there about both entities or two entities, as it says in the translation that we have here, done by the Parliamentary Assembly. Let them fix it right here, let them take an English version of the text, and they'll see that they're talking about an entity or entities. I have therefore cited this as an example of which I wanted to support my initial claim that when this amendment is carefully and carefully analysed, when it is read, and we have all read many times the complete content of it, then it must simply be concluded that this is a good amendment that needs to be situationed in the BiH Constitution and that it does not actually cause as much dilemma as the dilemma has so far caused public controversy over this amendment. Of course, let the public debate continue, perhaps at this point we don't see what anyone else will see and what's important. And that is the purpose of the public debate – but in the end we really need to look at all the elements in their total – this amendment incorporated into the BiH Constitution and then make a decision afterwards. 42 And I have a need, I am sorry that Mr. Živković is not here, I did not want to replicate too much, to cause a more bile debate here in Parliament, but the Republic of BiH has its continuity and in today's BiH and its institutions and bodies have existed, all those institutions existed until they were replaced by dejtonski, in the manner that the Dayton Agreement has prescribed, so until the September '96 elections. years most of these or at least these most significant, right. Some institutions of the Republic of BiH continue to function today, and Mr. Živković should know and it is very immodest and inappropriate here in a debate on such an important issue to discuss the invalidity of the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic of BiH, because it is right that those who say that the Assembly after Dayton and before Paris approved the paragraph and authorised the delegation to sign the Dayton Peace Agreement. If it hadn't been for that authority, the agreement wouldn't have been signed in Paris when it was signed. That's it. About that, of course, I also have a record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24375	Like I said, I've still got Denis Bećirović on file. Denise, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24376	I will not repeat the views of the SDP's Club, the MP and the SDP president made them very clear, but I would only like to trace and reflect the views of the MPs' Club on several more of their assessments and observations regarding the amendments to the BiH Constitution. Before that, I'd like to say the following anyway. Had it not been for this debate, neither we in Parliament nor perhaps the general public, they would not have known that there were MPs in the BiH Parliament who swore they would respect the BiH Constitution and still do not know that in the BiH Constitution several times the term of the states next to the word, is it, BiH. But that's the subject for itself. I want to say that I want to support these amendments to the Constitution for, first of all, a few reasons. First, because the Brcko District of BiH, according to this proposal, stands under BiH's sovereignty and falls within the authority of BiH institutions. Secondly, because relations between the Brcko District and BiH and entities and the Brcko District are regulated here in the BiH Parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly. Third, because the BiH Constitutional Court decides on any dispute in this relationship. And fourthly, in relation to this Banja Luka agreement, the key word in these amendments is the word, too, unlike the word itself – so that word very clearly says that there is no blockade of the institutions of Brcko District, that it is impossible and that it is only necessary to look at Article IV of the existing BiH Constitution point 3rd subparagraph (a) of the fourth paragraph that speaks very clearly about it. I, too, want to say that even before the final decision of the arbitration tribunal was made, there were several possibilities when it came to the Brcko District. The first, to make him part of the Federation; the second, part of Republika Srpska; the third, to become the BiH District. There was this third option, and I think the best possible option for the future of integration in BiH. According to an existing arbitration decision, which we are all obliged to implement in BiH, the Brcko District is defined as one multiethnic district under the exclusive sovereignty of BiH. So, also in this one, and that may be very important to mention: the term "condominium" is mentioned in the final arbitration decision. So that's not the term we invented, and here it's very clear 43 in these amendments that we can't and we don't have the right to change the final arbitration decision when it comes to the Brcko District. I think it would be good today to say that the Brcko District is still a positive example today in BiH and that this amendment is in fact, in a way, and strengthening the same state of BiH, but also that this amendment represents ultimately, I would say, and the victory of both the Brcan Srbin and the Brcani Hrvat and the Bošnjak and others and, in the end, the BiH state. So it is very clear to say that today we accept the final arbitration decision on Brcko and, if we accept it, there is no dispute over this term of condominium. Personally, if I were to ask myself, I would throw that term out of this text, but it should also be known that the term "condominum" has a very broad meaning and cannot be translated in just one way. At the time of Roman law, it meant shared property, at the time of colonialism it marked something completely different. Here, some have mentioned two of the most recent examples between the UK and Egypt regarding Sudan and France and Britain regarding New Hebrides in the South Pacific, in BiH it is quite another thing again. I want to say in the end that these recommendations we got from the SNSD Club are completely unacceptable to me. Here, I will just say about this first position under 'a') The BiH presidency is in charge of informing the supervisor of the Brcko District that by adopting the Amendment to the BiH Constitution, I quote, 'the final condition for ending international supervisory over the District and creating an ambience for the transfer of power'. Such a proposal for a conclusion is contrary to the final arbitration decision for the Brcko District. The final arbitration decision literally states that, with the approval of the High Representative, it has an obligation to inform the tribunal that both entities fully comply with their obligations, to support the establishment of new institutions described in the arbitration tribunal's decision and what is very important is whether, in that decision, these institutions function effectively and, apparently, permanently in the territory of the municipality of Brcko. So it's in the final arbitration decision. We know what the situation is and in Brcko, we know what the situation is and in BiH and it is evident that these conditions are not yet met so that what they have proposed or what SNSD colleagues have proposed can be determined. So, as long as it is not such an ambience, this conclusion is certainly unacceptable, and in particular – to return to that story that I've been looking for for for several months, and there have been no majority – as long as those anti-state measures are not withdrawn and that anti-state legal act adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the past year and that threatens independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24377	I am a little premature in suggesting Bećirović is the last. So we have Vinko Zorić, then Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24378	Well, I thank you, Chairman, and I won't be long and I didn't intend for you to be wrong, so who's the last one. 44 I have a need to say that I will still support the first reading of the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH and I have a proposal concerning the public debate that you and Mr Džaferović mentioned here in your first debate. So, I agree that it will be five debates, I agree that they will be as public as possible but I would suggest that both constitutional committees, so both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, be in full composition, if possible, present in Brcko. So, still most of all, this concerns them, and I would like to say, several debaters said in their discussions that this is the most positive thing that has happened to BiH, so in this sense, I wonder why you don't make out of all the municipalities of the district, to be positive in the entire territory of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24379	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Slavko, is this a replica or what? I figured you had nothing, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24380	It's a replica to the presentation of fellow Bećirović. When I said there was no country name... in the context of mentioning the Republic of BiH and listed it as an explanation, so normally it is a state. I said it's not space, it's not space, it's not called space. So in this context, I said, there is no more definition of the republic, because neither is the republic, nor is the monarchy, nor is this, nor is the empire of BiH. We know what a state is, what an entity is, in that context. And to call on that some MPs have signed an oath to honor the Constitution? Well, if anyone advocates respecting the Constitution in each of their discussions, I've said countless times in the case of the constitution of the people. The Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat must be mentioned because the constitution is based on three constituent nations. If that's not there, there's no Constitution, the state's collapse. Here, and I'll tell the state now. In that context, I said. I know who the legal follower is, as you did, Mr. Bećirović, it's just a matter of setting ahead. There's no republic, there's nothing, it's called BiH, it's made up of two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24381	Thank you very much. May I have your attention, please? I have no more applications, I conclude debate on item 3, so Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH (first reading). Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Declaration on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act in BiH (second reading) Of course, it is a second reading and it is a statement that we will have after the debate. Just a few information. So we delayed the statement in the hope that in the meantime, so you left the College to put this on the agenda,...there would be some progress in terms of consultation, in terms of taking some activities etc. Some activities took place in 45, but they did not result in some significant changes. So, we have exactly the same state, in some way, except that we got, I hope you've all got that, the opinion of the RES Ministry of Amendments that were the subject of the debate on both the Commission and the debate we had here. So, by giving this information, I'm practically not opening up the debate, because we've finished the debate, but we've delayed the plea. So, we're going to make a statement about this when we make a statement about all the other points of the agenda. Point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on minor perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not wanting to repeat what you've been saying, it really has been so, so it says in our report, you wrote it to yourself in a reminder for this session – why did it actually come, why did we come to the situation that we have 133 amendments, actually? We came because, when the original text of the law was done, there was one expert group that should have done so and not all experts participated in the finalization of the final version and what the Constitutional Commission had done required that the entire group meet together with the Justice Ministry and they did. And these amendments, which have been tabled and adopted unanimously by the Constitutional Commission, are the result of the consent of a whole group of experts, then the Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Commission, because we have unanimously decided on this matter. I think that today we have an improved text, a significantly improved text compared to that original text, and we have decided that people don't suffer, that they have a consolidated text of this law, that they know what they're actually voting for today. So much, thank you, nothing more. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24385	I thank the President of the Constitutional Commission. I don't have any reports. So, I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 6. Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on free legal aid (second reading) At the 45th session, we adopted him in our first reading. The Constitutional Commission delivered the report on 27 February. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law in the proposed text. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24395	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my satisfaction that today we have on the agenda a proposal for a state strategy for drug control, prevention and control of drug abuse in BiH. What I'd like to say at first is that I've read this document as a whole and actually everything that is in this strategy, in a situation where completely multimodal, multi-disciplinary 49 could be realised, we could, after the completion of all these tasks, take a break and say that the problem of using and misusing intoxicating drugs in some way put under control. I actually hope that this strategy will indeed be implemented in its highest percentage and volume in all its segments, from health, social needs, education, segments of security. But what I would really like to draw attention to is that at the very beginning in the opening notes we have a few facts that, I mean, we need to stop a little bit. The first is that BiH does not possess a methodologically unique monitoring system in the area of drug abuse, which means that we do not actually have a single register of drug users, or drug addicts at BiH level. So we don't have a single database, so we're actually now asking the question of how in full capacity we're going to implement such ambitious and such well-set targets in front of all segments of society, if we don't have a record. I actually, at the same time,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24396	Please listen to me for a minute, please. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24397	: Once again, I underline the fact that at the state level, we do not have the possibility to keep such a single register and that in fact institutionalising the Public Health Institute at the level of BiH, in full capacity, could respond to one such request, thus obtaining the preconditions to fully implement quality objectives, with certainly good results of such a strategy in the long term. What I would also like to say is that the activities carried out in terms of preventing the use and use of intoxicating agents are currently characterised as insufficient, controversial, uncoordinated, exclusively positioned at local level, so that there is no systemic approach to solving these problems, first in the education system and in the health system. It is something that is certainly important to say, and especially if it is taken into account that currently at least in the Federation of BiH, I do not have full insight into how it is regulated in the RS, we have actually institutional treatment of addicts only in one canton. They're planning on what's-his-name. Detox centers in other cantons, and actually the information is existing, and we have nine communities to rehabilitate addicts, one of which is only one of those communes, actually in the intelligence and institutionalised and legally framed into the segment of health and social policy, which is the Communa in Canton of Sarajevo. I would now still focus on the fact that we in the Federation and the RS have passed the Criminal Crimes Act, with repressive measures, i.e. criminal measures for this segment, in some way, taken over from the Western European countries and that these criminal measures were not harmonised in relation to our socio-economic moment and the fact that we are a country in transition on intoxicating drugs, the fact that for many years we have had some problems with the border and the establishment of adequate border control, and then we have the information that we actually have 50% of the perpetrators of the crimes already convicted of this act and who are again convicted. 50 What I would still draw attention to from this strategy is that I am not entirely sure, I hope that by implementing this strategy, the Ministry of Security will put under complete control, first of all, traffic to drug users, because the overuses of intoxicating drugs are something that is very easy to import under existing legislation, and then during the industrial processing these overuses are relatively easier to translate into intoxicating drugs. In fact, in this prevention, I think that a multimodal and multidisciplinary approach is absolutely imperative, and I can't help but think that actually this strategy and its implementation will depend in many ways on the economic capacity of all these institutions that will be involved in its implementation, on the one hand and, on the other hand, one full networking of the health system, the social protection system, the education system and, above all, these courts within BiH, because in fact... only fully bound can implement this strategy that, hopefully, would contribute to reducing the problem of drug abuse and addiction in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24398	... An hour, because half of Parliament's MPs are already at lunch, we have no quorum. [[no microphone turned on]] This is really the ultimate insolence of people. [[PAUZA]] So we're at point 14. Azra Alajbegović finished her discussion. The next one checked in with Savo Erić, who is not presently presently gone, so when she arrives, and now it's Selim Bešlagić's turn. Please take your seats to keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24400	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to welcome the appearance of today's proposal for a state strategy for drug control, prevention and control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs in BiH from 2009 to 2013. I think my predecessor, my colleague Azra, was talking about positive things, and I wouldn't engage in any more important analysis except two things. First, since this is a strategy that has been in force since 2009, and in sources of funding, other than the principle that funds should be provided, no amount of funds is provided anywhere and how these funds should be provided. And second, one question, which I think should be described in this strategy, who will oversee the implementation of this strategy from 2009 to 2013. I speak for one simple reason why this strategy is as good as it is, it is acceptable, but if there is no financial resources and if there is no supervisory institution, is it the ministry, I think this is going to get divorced and that after the first year or the second year 51 we will realize that we do not have what we have foreseen in this strategy. I would therefore ask, if possible, as a proposal that means planning at least for 2009, and that the period from 2010 to 2013, to plan global funds and then, if necessary, to go to donor conferences so that the platform can be realised. Here, these are some principled remarks that might give quality to this strategy and make the implementation of these objectives envisaged here in this strategy serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24401	Mr. Erić, just one moment. Here we have Minister Nović as usual, he is always there, so we will be able to clarify some things on the spot. So, Mr. Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24402	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers, esteemed guests, this strategy is one of the most important things we will recognize in the future. It's well written, it's nicely complex, it's just a question of how much we'll manage to implement it. What I would give the accent is prevention and suppression. If we take an analysis of how many car accidents we have, we ask ourselves why this sentence is a huge availability of intoxicating drugs. So that's a question we need to ask and work on. If we reduce the availability of intoxicating drugs and participate in prevention, surely that all of these items they listed, means from high risks, to hospitals, to future accidents, we know that we are a country in transition and that we have just entered these new processes and that we do not have a critical mass of people already in the third and fourth stages of drug use. When that happens, then we will certainly all be at risk, and the budgets will be compromised, and it is better to separate one part of the funds now, give an incentive to prevent and suppress. So we're going to cut the story, maybe someone behind us in two years' time is going to be able to spend a lot of money, and they're going to propose a large prison capacity, and they're going to propose large funds for hospitals. I suggest we turn these two things off, try to give a boost here, and the minister and... means Republika Srpska and the MUP and all the others should prepare for the next budget a part of the funds, normally, in which we would participate, for these issues. We will thus encourage this strategy to come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24403	I don't have any more reports. So, Mr. Minister, do you have a need? Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24404	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, it is a pleasure today in this high house to discuss such important matter as this drug-restraint strategy. Maybe no other strategy deserves as much attention as this one, with various aspects. And just for your information, let me say a few sentences, that this strategy has been made by almost the most innovative experts in all areas in BiH, from health, education, social institutions to NGOs, state ministries and all law enforcement agencies in BiH. We appreciate that this is for the first time extremely important to address this issue in a very systematic and quality way. And what the honourable MP Bešlagić is asking, it's true, what about the funds. Namely, the implementation of this strategy... or the implementation of its strategy implies that all entities and cantons and other bodies bring their strategies into the area of drug control, since it is within the competence of the authorities at local, let me say, level, entity and lower, and that they must also provide for appropriate means to implement this strategy, and I think that it will not be so small, but rather that it will be extremely large funds. And I think it is a good suggestion that, with an act to be addressed to all authorities, it says that with the adoption of this strategy, it would be good for all the bodies it relates to to to try to find spotless additional funds so that in 2009, it could enter into full implementation. On the other hand, when it comes to realisation, just to note that a state-level commission has been formed at BiH level, the Council of Ministers has appointed for monitoring both drug control and reporting with international institutions. The commission has, in accordance with the Drug Restraint Act, extremely high responsibilities. Under the circumstances, the Minister of Civil Affairs is at the head of the commission and there are several other fellow ministers at the state level in that commission to try to bring this evil down to the smallest, to say the least, measure. We just had a meeting of this committee yesterday at which we negotiated certain measures to be taken and in any case the key issue is just prevention. I don't think the repressive measures will produce any results in any country, if all the authorities in BiH preventatively, so from the lowest to the highest and vice versa, they don't take exactly preventive measures. So, here, in the implementation of this strategy, the Commission for the control of intoxicating drugs as well as for the implementation of the law itself is extremely important. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24405	Thank you Minister for further clarifications and answers. I would ask the MPs, or I would recommend to the MPs, who through their discussion gave some initiatives, some of the thinking, indicated, that they would eventually turn it into conclusions, so that we could have written when we vote, so that it would not be forgotten. I don't have any more reports. Finalising debate on point 14. Moving to point 15. 53 Ad. 15. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2008 – applicant: State Regulatory Commission for Electricity We got it on February 11th. The Commission for Transport and Communications was responsible. The Commission held a session yesterday and delivered its opinion and, as you could see, the report was unanimously accepted and it is proposed to the House that this report be adopted. I would like to welcome and thank the presence of the members of the Commission: Nikola Pejić, the president, Vladimir Dokić, the member, and Mirsad Salkić, a member. Of course, if they need a few introductory notes to give. Of course, no strings attached. If not, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, President of the Commission, Mr Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24407	Mr. Chairman, I do not want to comment on the report, I just want to say that by considering it at yesterday's session, the Commission has found that it is an exemplary report both in a substantive and conceptual sense and, behold, I am pleased to conclude... that these reports are examples of what should be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24408	I must say, Mr. Dokić, that I share your opinion but here I have a report here: Drago Kalabić replica. I don't know, drago, was it a mistake or was it a mistake? Okay. There are no more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I thank the members of this committee for their presence. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković and the activities undertaken after the event Let me remind you. At the 44th session of the House, we had a debate about this case and then we adopted conclusions and, among other things, we commissioned the Council of Ministers to provide us with current, or updated information on what was going on in the meantime. This information was delivered to us through the Council of Ministers, as we requested, so from the 76th session, held 12. 2nd of this year. I hope you have information. 54 I'm opening a debate. Of course, the minister is here, and it's always open. Ministers are familiar with the practice that they always have the opportunity both in the introduction and during the debate. So obviously the minister appreciates that there's no need, here's the debate. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24410	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I must say that I would like the chairman of the Council of Ministers to have submitted a report on this too, because we have ultimately tasked the Council of Ministers, not Minister Sadović. We've already received information from the Department of Security on this subject. I expected that, in line with the conclusion of this House, I would remind myself: 'It is binding on the Council of Ministers to through the competent ministries', so it is numbered, 'The Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to collect all relevant information', I stress, 'all relevant information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, BiH Assistant Minister of Security, and that at the next session of the House of Representatives, and after contact with Vjekoslav Vuković and the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia, it will provide all the information and a proposal for our determination to accompany this case.' In addition to the short additions to the first ad hoc information, which we received 21. 1. In 2009, I, in this information, received again from Minister Sadović 17. 2nd of this year, which says it is in line with the Council of Ministers' conclusion, I see no Council of Ministers' conclusion here, so I don't know what the Council of Ministers' conclusion is, I don't want to guess what the Council of Ministers has concluded and whether he has concluded anything at all except to re-indemnify Minister Sadović to repeat the information he has already given us here. I would not like to say in advance that Minister Sadović feels personally called for anything I will say in the next course of the discussion, because I have no intention of calling any individual in the BiH institutions, but it is my intention, and I am responsible here, to call the Council of Ministers, above all, as a very responsible institution, to call the BiH Presidency as a very responsible institution, because of their relationship with this and similar cases. And, in order not to be a dilemma, I, after seeing this information that we received from Minister Sadović, asked for private and information from the person most concerned, as regards Mr Vjekoslav Vuković, who was arrested. I asked to hear what he could say about everything that was going on about his departure to Rijeka, what preceded his departure to Rijeka to his detention, bringing him in, hearings, detentions, etc. until the very act of coming back to BiH. And if the Council of Ministers is not informed, and from this information it seems to me that it is not informed, Vjekoslav Vuković has managed to return to BiH, not thanks to the institutions of this country but to himself and, I don't know what else. He is currently staying in his place of residence, in Kiseljak. If it wasn't as it is, and unfortunately, we don't keep having some centuries-old wolves happening to us, maybe we could now re- politicise this in different ways. My intention is not to politicize this. My intention is to really try to finally be credible. From the information we have from the Ministry of Security or from the information we have from the Ministry of Security, we can conclude that our neighbouring country's minister, first in 55 phone conversations, has informed his esteemed colleague that he has kept his assistant minister until further notice of certain suspicions that he is a fellow BiH associate in neighbouring country suspected of committing a criminal offence. Afterwards, we see from the information that a respected colleague of our Minister Sadović sent some notice to our Minister of Security and also informed him that his assistant minister was kept in the Republic of Croatia until further notice. Afterwards, we have information that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia has filed criminal charges against Vjekoslav Vuković, that he has been subject to specific investigations and has found that there is a reasonable doubt that Vjekoslav Vuković, under the law of the Republic of Croatia, committed a criminal offence as set out in the article – if I remember correctly now that I am not looking for it, it is irrelevant at all – it seems to me 334. After that we have again a series of information that the Ministry of Justice... has also been informed by the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia of certain details and so on. There's one fact from all this information that's going through them, although it means I'm not the only one who's noticed them. All the information says they are correct, it is a matter of court proceedings, but it is said that Vjekoslav Vuković is suspected of committing a crime on BiH territory. I stress, he is suspected of committing a crime on BiH territory where he allegedly found some NN persons, along with the intervention of other NN persons, some NN weapons unknown to him for the NN sum, etc. and so all NN, all unknown, made it possible to get here, but here in BiH, and that as that weapon was to be served as a means of committing a crime in our neighbouring Republic of Croatia. And apparently, nothing weird. But then I'm surprised, when we're doing it all for granted, what we're doing is getting rid of some warrants that are being mentioned these days. And this is our neighbouring state, which has its institutions and which conducts procedures in accordance with its laws in its institutions, regardless of what our citizens suspect of allegedly committed crimes but on BiH territory. Again, it's just a similarity, I won't bother any further. So it's happening to us again, and we're probably going to say in one case that it's inappropriate, that it doesn't make sense, that it's destroying good neighbourly relations, that it's mixing into internal affairs, and now everything else can be said. In another case, it means to me in the case of our citizen, which is obviously irrelevant, because he has one mortal sin, he has double citizenship and that's the problem. He's a good shot here and there. We can observe this now, because it has dual citizenship and it is a sin, although the law of this country does not prohibit it. But we in our interpretation, perhaps some of those who are on these warrants that are being announced, may also have double citizenships – let us not prejudge things. We'll hear, I've heard from the media, though, that the Honorable Foreign Minister asked for information about those, so we'll probably hear about it too, whether it's true or not, etc. But there's something here that worries me. That we have unspeakable faith in any and any information we receive from another country like that, but when one of us assesses that this is the case and that we are willing to take all the necessary actions here to sanction one of us here, based on this information, in this case, the Assistant Minister. I don't know if that's okay. I stress, all information says that the incriminating shop, which Assistant Minister Vjekoslav Vuković is suspected, was done in BiH. And now that I've come up with this proposal, I've had it in mind. And that's why I asked, counting on us to have competent people in these three very important state ministries, all relevant information. If I had been in one of these institutions, I would have kept myself above the fact that 56 says here that a BiH citizen here may be somewhere near this building, perhaps somewhere away from this building, but on the territory of this country, allegedly, I would have committed a crime, so over countless security agencies, which entity, which cantonal, which state, tried to get some sort of own information about the situation on my own territory, because the actions that are mentioned may have certain elements and the sound of terrorism or something like that. They mention explosive devices, they mention high-caliber weapons, because only a caliber is mentioned, I don't know what kind of weapon it is, but a caliber is mentioned, interesting. I find a lot of things interesting, which is why I want to talk about it in public and in public. And I'm so suspicious about all this, to be honest. And that's why I want to talk like this, because if we keep this up, let's not be surprised. We, or our institutions, immediately suspended Vjekoslav Vuković. It means protecting against his possible harmful influences because he was in prison. I know it's a legal provision when there's arrests against someone. We can see, though, whether or not they're correspondence dates of preventive suspension and detention, but that's irrelevant in all of this. But, after it is very interesting, Vjekoslav Vuković despite the argument that he was given for being released from custody, someone will say with great bail, someone will say with a small, someone like this, someone like that, but if he is truly guilty of why he is suspected, and that is, if that is true, if that is true, then it would be correct that he corresponds here, because that is why the suspect allegedly committed him here. So let's see, and according to our legislation, what sanctions are prescribed. Well, the suspension is one disciplinary measure in which at the moment, seemingly Vjekoslav Vuković is not damaged at all. Because, under this State Service Act, if I read it correctly, he has the right to full pay during the temporary preventive suspension. Only the institutions of this country are damaged because he does not work, and he receives wages. In my court, looking at all this, preventively suspended unfounded, unargumented, irresponsible, because if we don't already know what it is or don't know, I don't want to say it now, but one of these two certainly is, to determine what's going on here, whether our assistant minister who happens to be an aide to counter terrorism is involved here in trade, here in Sarajevo or somewhere in the area, in arms and dangerous assets, so we don't want to conduct an investigation here, a security investigation. I don't mean investigating disciplinary committees within the State Service Agency, they're not competent to do that. They will shed light there, determine whether Vjekoslav Vuković broke some rule on disciplinary procedure and finished the job. So they're not, but we have agencies that can do it. Why didn't we check it out for this time? Why didn't we try to check? So to say, with all the information we have from the Republic of Croatia, and our respective services have found through their operational work that there are elements of reasonable doubt and why we, as well as all normal states, would not ask for our citizen to be sanctioned, prosecuted in front of the courts and prosecutors of this country. Unfortunately, everyone came forward uninterested, interesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24411	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24412	So there's a whole series of questions here without an answer. The only thing we know at this point is that Vjekoslav Vuković was damaged, that one perspective, so to speak, the official of the Ministry of Security of State, the president of a very important committee, whose reports he considered and supported, who is a member and international bodies where he represents BiH in institutions that are fighting terrorism, 57 is interesting for one such man, like this, I will say according to these papers that we have received, and especially on the basis of talks with Mr Vuković, we easily accept that whoever gets involved and whenever they come up, anyone from this country can be identified as such or in this way, and eliminate him from all possible processes, however important they are to this country and no matter how much they mean to the citizens of this country. What we can do at least at this point, I wish we could do it based on the fact that our organs are related to the actions being put on Vjekoslav Vuković's burden but, unfortunately, since there is no obvious desire to do so, I can only suggest here
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24413	Please, hello, please. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24414	: the conclusion that the House of Representatives asks the Minister of Security to remove Vjekoslav Vuković's suspension and to return to the tasks and tasks he has acted before this suspension, and after the proceedings have ended before the courts of our neighbouring states. Well, we'll all be waiting for what's gonna be there. According to information, I do not want to burden you, Bog dear knows how this will end and when it will end, that after that all of us together and whoever is in the Ministry of Security, when this is over, will take appropriate measures if we do not want to establish before the institutions of this country what is happening in this country. So, the least we can do is have a man, an assistant minister, a civil servant, high-ranking in many duties, so far without a single stain in business behavior, be adequately returned to work and thus try to protect his and his and his human and professional dignity with at least one minimum, and let the courts do their job. When not ours, let the courts of neighbouring states work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24415	I have, if I'm all right, Šemsudin Mehmedović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24416	Gentlemen, the chairman, my replica refers to Mr. Lozančić's previous presentation, especially in the first part of his presentation. There, the security minister delivered the information, it's what it is. So, it's just a matter of fact. But, then, we have something to discuss, because we have information from the Minister of Security. Looking at the purely formal jurisdiction of the Ministry on this case, I think...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24417	Please, Mr. Bahtić, sit down, let me hear from you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24418	... that the higher responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice are in respect of the legal and any other human protection of Mr Vuković when it comes to this case, and the Ministry of Security only in that part because Mr Vuković was an assistant minister of security. On the other hand, I don't think these grades stand. Of course, I expected information today about this case from the Council of Ministers who is who it is, but to be information from the Council of Ministers. However, there is none, nor is there one of the competent ministries of others, except the Ministry of Security. Of course, I don't have the ambition to be anyone's lawyer, but it's just for the sake of the truth. But... here's when I got back, let me say two or three sentences. What worries me as a representative in this home is the state's carelessness about its citizens. We've had the case of Ilija Jurišić, so the man is a year and a half, here for almost two years, in custody, in custody or in prison, call whatever you want, but he's been deprived of his freedom. It's not even in the country of origin, in BiH, let alone with its family. So the Vuković case happened. So there are likely to be 18 more cases of arrests by BiH citizens following a possible warrant from Interpol. Where's the end of it? What is this Council of Ministers and this state doing to protect its citizens? Or it protects some other citizens, not BiH citizens, and that is what worries about what the trend is in general regarding protecting BiH citizens. And I would not agree with the proposal for a conclusion, because we cannot draw a conclusion that is contrary to the law. Therefore, I believe that such a conclusion should not even be proposed, let alone support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24419	Replica, Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24420	Dear colleague Mehmedović, I don't know what you recognized that I was particularly referring to the Minister of Security. I was on purpose, since I expected that there would be certain, who would need to defend the minister from me. There's no need. There are three of them here, mine, our ministers at the Council of Ministers. I made it very clear in the beginning. If you had defended Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would understand because I attacked him, if that's what you want, because he's not here to tell us why the Council of Ministers didn't deliver it. I wasn't the one who attacked the Secretary of Security, but I've been through facts, maybe that's how it happened to you. If the incriminating action suspected by Vjekoslav Vuković is made in BiH, do not tell me that the Ministry of Security through the relevant services, including co-ordination, has no right and duty to verify that these things are true. So I don't want to amnest anyone why he didn't do something. But it is crucial that the alleged crime was committed in BiH, and that our civil servant, the assistant minister, wants to be tried in the neighbouring state.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24421	Minister Sadović. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24422	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you know the first time you asked for this information that you had it within 12 hours, not 24 hours. So we tried and gave you relevant information, and it took a huge effort. Of course, at the conclusion of this Parliamentary Assembly, we continued to collect relevant information, those that were available to us, from international contacts. We were, and if you remember, criticised that the state wasn't worried. Here, you can see from the information that the state has sent a consultant to the Consulate in Croatia three times to visit and that the ambassador has personally engaged in this case. Also, the Department of Justice... I think at the level of the ministers that they contacted and exchanged relevant information. Of course, I can't be a couple with Mr. Lozančić, who is a lawyer, and it is true, in this information, that Mr. Vuković allegedly intervened in the purchase of an explosive device and that weaponry in the city of Sarajevo. But at the same time, the place where the crime was to be committed – it's an assassination attempt, murder, etc. – is in Rijeka, in the Republic of Croatia. And it is also a relevant fact that, in a legal sense, at least according to my modest knowledge, can be linked. On the other hand, the relevant fact is that Mr. Vuković is a double citizen, the Republic of Croatia and BiH, that he had a registered residence there in Rijeka. Perhaps... special investigative actions have been applied against Mr Vjekoslav Vuković by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. I suppose that's the way it is from certain contacts with his lawyers, etc. to conclude, with a high degree of probability, that's the case. What, in some ways, is a little illogical, beware, we supported... by the official duty of the store we had to take. So we've come to a solution on preventive suspension. What was I supposed to do? Let's leave a man at work, aside from such heavy accusations, he's the third person to be charged with this procedure, to pretend like nothing happened. So, on the other hand, it would cause a real avalanche of disdain and you know it as well as I know it. So, Mr. Vuković is currently in his house, waiting for the outcome of that trial. His suspension was extended for serious reasons in the execution of the crime. Please, if, if he's the third person to be charged with this procedure, then these are serious reasons, in my humble court. And here, I don't want this story to go to the field of some kind of politicization. I mean, the information was adopted by the Council of Ministers. ... I don't know if it was delivered in that form, but nothing has changed, so we delivered it in time to Parliament. It was adopted by the Council of Ministers. Of course, certain things happen, and now I can't say which way this thing is going to go any further. At the same time, do not ignore the facts and that Mr Vuković, when he allegedly went to the Republic of Croatia, had taken the official car, had not reported to any of his superiors, had moved to another country, etc. These are all pieces in the mosaic of this picture. I'm not prejudicing anything, so let the court decide, etc. Here, I also inform you, in accordance with the Code on the Protection of Secret Information, in accordance with Article 57, if a person who has access to classified information is subject to a criminal procedure, that person must at least be temporarily prevented from accessing classified information. Therefore, this is the appropriate solution, etc. So, look, you can't, on the one hand, be an assistant minister, perform that function, and be prevented from accessing a particular type of data that... makes it impossible for you to do your jobs and tasks on a regular basis. 60 Here, I don't know, I mean, there were a few more things from my colleague Lozančić. What Mr. Mehmedović said, this is really true. Look, the moment the police finish their jobs, then this becomes, when the case comes to court, this is a matter of international legal co-operation and assistance. So, the Department of Justice. I don't, of course, transfer responsibility. So we regularly consulted and received some information from the Justice Department. The Council of Ministers said: You started with this information, you finish. And of course we have consulted the Foreign Ministry on a regular basis and that part of that information is in this information. And therefore, they were obtained by our diplomatic and consular representations. Here, I had a need to say this and here I am at my disposal for other questions. There's no personal relationship here. These are the simple facts that we... gave you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24423	Replica, Milorad Živković. Is the replica the same?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24424	Thank you. This is a multiple replica. In fact, I don't think it's okay to keep calling the chairman's council of ministers, because we had a situation at the last session when we also had a discussion here between the assistants and the chairman. I think it's a good idea if someone is holding on to one sector that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is in charge of these people to process this subject as it is in this case. Although I think that when the issue of amending the Constitution, except that the minister of justice was here, there would be a need for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. But here, in this particular case, replicated assistant in the Council of Ministers, or Minister Sadović. Mr Sadović, this is a well-intentioned suggestion, please step out of that parliamentary cliché. You had a chance here, before any of us came forward, to come out as a minister and explain the information. You have no need to discuss that you are then giving replicas here for this speaker. We had a chance before your agenda to see how the minister performs for this pay phone and how it should be... one resort. I benevolently ask you to stop arguing with the MPs and start doing your job. We're here for everyone to know they're doing their job right. There are enough MPs out here in the front row to say what they think about this topic. At the same time, there is no respected conclusion that we adopted here at the House. No contact with Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković. Is this a relationship in that ministry that people can't even hear on the phone saying and making contact about it. What our relationship to this is also from the title of this point Information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković. The man also has a duty, which no one has taken from him here, he is an assistant BiH security minister. It's our relationship to the point of this agenda, not to say how competent institutions treat people, and the worst relationship is the relationship between people who are competent and their people who work together with that man... in this institution. That's what I'm talking about, because they're taking out formal reasons here. He says he used an official vehicle for private purposes. How many people have used the vehicle for official purposes in the last two years, and that wasn't the problem, that's where that problem came out. Is there an official passport coming out of BiH? Well, gentlemen, I have a passport, I have a diplomatic passport. Which passport am I going out of BiH with? Who has two, three more, BiH passport to go with one 61 for private purposes, the other says I go for official purposes, etc. We can list these trivial things to take away someone's right to work, as much as you want, but the essential thing is the relationship of institutions, the relationship of people who work with such people and who are their colleagues, to initially discredit such a man, and not help that man. Who knows how it's gonna end, working with that man again!? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24425	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24426	It doesn't take this much hysteria, Mr. Živković, when it comes to Minister Sadović and I sometimes understand you. But I would understand more if they also discussed the arrest of Ilija Jurišić or, possibly, these investigations that were launched against the former members of the BiH presidency. So, in all three cases, it is the citizens of BiH. And any man who in any way from another state (other countries' procedures) should not be seen if he is an assistant minister, a member of the presidency. We need to think about the citizens of BiH. In such a way, it would be good if you had access to Ilija Jurišić to have the same approach when Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković is involved and, possibly, this investigation initiated by the Serbian Prosecutor's Office regarding BiH citizens in the last period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24427	Here we have a replica of Lozančić, so we have a replica of Živković. Let me ask you, I don't see that happening, that are so different from this thing to produce, but there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24428	Mr. President, I have tried, I may not be careful enough, but I have indeed tried not to produce anyone, by challenging anyone's need to replicate, because I have sought to share my beliefs with all of you and with members of the Council of Ministers. However, apparently, I failed. And I didn't say much about why I had information, because I knew it could cause certain replicas. And I kept it on purpose. So, I didn't, I didn't mean to do it on purpose so that we wouldn't replicate, that we wouldn't go through it, and I don't know how, to reduce the key problem of the whole case. However, there is obviously a need for that, which is with the minister, which is with the MPs. And now if I keep trying to stay out of it, it'll turn out that one of them is right, and everyone's trying to be right. Obviously, we can't all be right, because we're saying diametrically opposite things. And now, although I had no intention, I will first conditionally replicate my distinguished colleague Ahmetović. You know, we're getting into a schizophrenic situation here where tomorrow I'm supposed to laugh when a Bošnjak brings someone to Belgrade before this Special Court, and that's how we get 62 situations here in this House, let's say, well, let's see now, Minister, what do you think about this right now. Let me just come here and ask you. Now do you think you trust this particular court? Believe that you believed in the Vuković case, that's a message. You want that, okay, there's no problem. But I don't think it's building this state, or its institutions, or protecting the credibility of all of us from this Parliament, through our Council of Ministers to those civil servants who work together with us on all these affairs. And if we want what I can personally think, I have the right to think that one of the civil servants doesn't do all the jobs in a way that I would like and I'd like to have a dick at ten when someone else moves him, that's okay, okay, we can talk about it that way. It is clear to me that it is not Vjekoslav Vuković, but now I will say what I did not want to say, the problem because he is an assistant minister. Well, neither is his minister, let alone him. I mean, again, I have no intention of insulting the minister, because we're not good with the system, so don't ask the minister, it's not the minister's fault. Well, neither does his assistant. Vjekoslav Vuković is a problem through this commission that he was forced to work together with others, because other competent institutions have not worked or worked or have worked in the first place, there is the problem. To be clear, I mean, and we're all looking from a different perspective at it, someone like this, someone like that. It's someone's fault to take that commission away from someone else, someone else's, someone expects some thirds to be taken away from their citizenship. It's obvious that this commission has done a lot of things that many people don't like, but not for the same reasons. The problem is they're not the same reasons, and that's the luck of this commission. Otherwise, if the reasons were the same, she would have been removed long ago, she wouldn't have worked, she wouldn't have had this many mandates if she had already filed reports here. But since many don't like her, for various reasons, she's been scratching and where she's obviously not supposed to touch, to put it like this. And it's not, but it's not right to give me something that's completely different. And, Mr. Minister, Mr. Živković said in part, "I've been thinking today that because of these remarks of yours here in this information, I'm taking one parliamentary question, but it's not too late, I guess there's still going to be a session." ... It would say about how many of us in BiH, and then I would ask the Ministry of Security with all its agencies, we have official motor vehicles? And by what criteria are they used today, how much per hour each week, per week, per month, is fuel used for all those vehicles? By what criteria, by whose travel orders and how are these official vehicles used, because we pay through this country's budget? I will probably ask you and your other colleagues and all of us here, let's see, little, let's not build a legal state on Vjekoslav Vuković. You know, where did Vjekoslav Vuković, your assistant, get a border police vehicle? Come on, come on, come on, well, as a private, I mean, people are making deals out there, someone is, so he's not a border police officer, he's not a SIPA officer. Where did your assistant get to use the border police vehicle... which is why you're sanctioning it now? ... But you know, you have to keep an eye on us, we're not a state, unfortunately. I've got to say, unfortunately, a million times, a billion times, but let's not worry about that disorder on those thin linkages that as much as they try to do something bright in this country, you know, because there are a lot of those who are day to day-to-day spanning vehicles of this country, Bog knows by what powers. Really, a lot, and it's worth it. But then we will at Vjekoslav Vuković – since these can no longer hold him in custody because there are no elements when they can't hold him – well, now we will sanction him for driving the border police vehicle. A little late, so he's driving it. I don't even know how much. We should have said it in time, it can't be like that, so it's not private property, etc. 63 Has he called anyone? When your assistant minister showed up in this country, I hope you're informed about it too, in order for it to be a turn, I'd do it, so I'd invite him to have a conversation with him, so I'd ask him for a statement. I wouldn't read the statements Karamarko sent me. I didn't want to do it, I asked for a statement by Vjekoslav Vuković, I have it here on five pages. I don't know why you didn't ask for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24429	Mr. Lozančić, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24430	Be careful, but I had no intention of discussing it this way. You could, and here's who followed my presentation carefully first, I had no intention of doing this at all. But the other one turns it like this, I can't stay quiet right now and say okay is that you're turning like that. So why didn't you do it, why, when you read that the crime was committed here in Sarajevo? The crime is trafficking in illicit funds, mine-explosive assets and calibers mentioned, ministers, in this. It's a crime by our legislation. No matter why someone would use it somewhere. Why didn't we check if it was done here or not? With all our services, and the entity, and the cantonal, and the state and everything else, we didn't. So, if we want an argument, there's a lot of arguments, there's a lot of questions here that don't have answers, a lot of questions. Long before your esteemed colleague informed you before the court made any decisions. Maybe he knew what the court was, long before I read from the media here that he was locked up than he was and something else. But if you had entered a detailed check of all this, you would have come to the same knowledge as me, I wouldn't have to tell you here. The problem is, you didn't do it. I didn't mean to attack you and I don't think so, because I don't think it's just you, the problem is much wider. That's why, since it's all like that, that's why I, dear colleague Mehmedović, suggested this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24431	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24432	It's clear that in principle arranged relationships everyone should do their job, but apparently it doesn't work, so when he doesn't work where he needs to, don't do it like this. Here, that's it, I get it. International legal aid, cooperation? Your colleague who called you to tell you he's your... assistant minister. How much does he respect you? Consider letting him know such information by accident, so that he treats you. _________(?) 64 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24433	Wait a minute. So, please, we have registered for the replica Živković, Novaković, Ahmetović, Sokolović. Here, Minister, any minute, the same. So what will you explain? Just wait a minute and be patient, you'll hear from everyone and then pick up, and we'll see. So, let's take it in a row. Please, let these replicas be correct, let them not produce, we will leave the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24434	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24435	Well, come in, Mr. Križanović, I'll register you. You're tired of being right today. Go ahead, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24436	Replication is to Mr Ahmetović. In fact, I didn't talk about anything other than the Ministry's relationship within the Ministry and the relationship between colleagues working together. I think this is the wrong relationship in the ministry, and the Ministry's relationship with the topic we're discussing. I did not question the opening of the process either in Croatia, or in Serbia where you mentioned it, because if I had opened it, then I would have to ask you what happened to those people who were accused and convicted in Germany. I know there is, I'll ask the Justice Department how they treat these cases, if the review is open. No Niko today mentioned the president of the Municipality of Prnjavor, Mr. Žunić, where he came from in Slovenia, where the civil rights of that man are. So, Mr Ahmetović, I didn't deal with that question that you opened.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24437	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24438	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, you see, I think Mr. Vice-President, who came out, was having a completely wrong debate. And we at the wrong settings today are discussing this issue. People, we've been arrested by an assistant minister, so we've been arrested by an assistant minister, we're not arrested by a Hrvat, we're not arrested by a Srbin, we're not arrested by a Bošnjak, we're arrested by an assistant minister. There's been a heavy charge brought here against the minister. I'm asking the minister to explain whether his failure is the result of the nationality of the assistant minister. Because, watch out, because of that question and some statements are 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24439	Come on, please, I'd really like to ask you to lead the discussion in a way that won't produce the atmosphere here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24440	...for months it's been written in the paper. So it's a hard charge to say today whether it's true or not. Does it mean that everyone should continue to use official cars for private purposes to walk where they walk, without obligation to inform anyone and ministers and assistant ministers? And they buy cars for 200 grand to keep no one informed! Is that a system that needs to work? Does that mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24441	Who's the replica, Mr. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24442	The replica is the chairman, I apologized, I made it clear what I was replicating. I will and repeat this, the man is gone because I said I was uncomfortable because he wasn't at first. But please, here we have the Information, we can reject the Information, ask to supplement the Information, put such a conclusion here before us, and we will vote. I don't know if Mr. Vuković is guilty or not. And don't bring me into the debate about Mr. Vuković's guilt, because I have no idea if he's guilty. I believe it isn't, and I wish it wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24443	Replica, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24444	I feel like I'm misunderstood. So, I have here on the agenda Information on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković. So there's no assistant minister, it doesn't say. But I want to say a general view of the phenomenon that is happening with the citizens of BiH and our relationship with it. Mr. Živković, we had here in the procedure a request that this parliament discuss the arrest of Ilija Jurišić, some were in favour, some were against. We now have a situation with Mr. Vuković and we have a similar situation when it can happen to one of these 19 who is being prosecuted by the Serbian Prosecutor's Office. I am talking about the attitude of the BiH state against its citizens. I ask that question: How long will we be selectively treating individual cases? Or we will have a general stance as the BiH Constitution has said. That's what I'm talking about. So, don't have a selective attitude, anything can happen to anyone, what relations we have within the Balkans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24445	Replica, Salko Sokolović. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24446	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, replica of the chairman. Many remember, so I'm here... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24449	So, let me remind you of a few things. I respect you, Mr. Sokolović, your initiative will end three times as crowded as we have now. So, let's get back to the subject, to the agenda point. We have information, we're discussing information, we're giving information assessments. Mr. Secretary spoke. The two present ministers, if they feel the need to speak, will speak. The debate so far, believe me, was more like these points six and seven. ( on legal 67 aid and international assistance in criminal matters), rather than on the specific information we were really looking for. I'm begging you. Ministers, of course, will get the word. You, Mr. Sadović, insist immediately? Here you go. Here you go. You asked, look! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, he can. He's looking, he's looking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24451	Here, the Honorable Chairman, I am right, appreciating this high home and one wish not to open some hot debate I didn't even want in the opening statement, because I cited the facts in that information. Here, for another very relevant information, so I've provided all the information available to SIPA, I don't know, it seems to me to the Intelligence Service, at some address and said take measures, actions from your jurisdiction. So if they did, I didn't get feedback. Therefore, the absolute remark of Mr. Lozančić is that I did not inform the agency. And here, and if I hadn't informed them that they had read all of this from the press about the crime scene, they had to take appropriate actions, open an investigation, if there were elements, etc., etc. On the other hand, I have to go out and deny something. Mr. Vuković did use the border police vehicle that he was legally given, all have papers. So, the vehicle was borrowed, because the man had an accident with an earlier vehicle, it was repaired, the border police asked, the director borrowed his vehicle by his decision, given it for use. So there's absolutely no question about it. Look, for every official trip, there's got to be a decision to make. There's got to be a warrant issued. Every civil servant knows that. Why wasn't it done, I won't, that's the disciplinary commission, so let him decide. But please nicely, I'd like the debate to be conducted and to put certain types, if there are, grudges on the facts. So, you've been looking for facts, I've given you facts that I have. Look, now this connects with some kind of State Citizenship Audit Committee. Come on, please. So whether this parliament adopted all these reports and lists, whether the Council of Ministers adopted, including me. What's the problem now? The fact that someone in their imagination has some shows to connect and accuse, I don't know who. I'm sorry, I have to say it. So on the Council of Ministers, every report by the State Commission was adopted. Is it adopted in this House? Yes, it is. What's the problem now? Did we support Mr. Vuković's work and he's not alone, it's a nine-member commission, three strangers and two representatives from every constituent nation, I really don't know, but it seemed like a politicisation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24452	We're going back in for a hearing. ... Mr Sadović, it was better that in the opening notes you gave this information that you passed on the SIPAs, etc., people didn't know that. But here, let's get back to the press releases. 68 Let's take it in a row. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24453	I would firstly like to conclude that the BiH Council of Ministers' reaction to the Vuković case is extremely inappropriate, slow and completely inadequate situation in which the BiH state and its authorities have found themselves after this. It is, therefore, a new scandal, new embezzlement and a new collapse of the credibility of the BiH government. When it came to the Ministry of Security, we had information from the Ministry of Security at the last session and we said what we had to say about that information. Two things are quite clear when it comes to the Ministry of Security: Mr Sadović is a security minister in these two years, and the other fact is that citizens are in total uncertainty, both legally and each other. On January 16th, the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia informed BiH's security minister about the case. And you know when the BiH Council of Ministers responded? On February 12th 2009, the Council of Ministers was scheduled to discuss it for 27 days. If this were serious, the Council of Ministers, but seriously, it wouldn't take them 27 hours, let alone 27 days to respond to a scandal like this. In BiH, however, it looks like it can go this way. It is evident that it is not an ordinary official but that it is a matter of arresting the chairman of the Commission for the Review of Citizenship, an assistant minister of security for the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug abuse. A man who was head of the anti-terrorism task force, head of the BiH delegation to the GRECO Committee, member of the Evolution Team, etc. So, it's not about an ordinary clerk, but it still didn't bother the Minister of Security that in this information, he said in one place, "The Ministry of Security has secured the smooth work." When an institution and a porter get sick, they're not at work for a few days, and there's some consequences. And here's a man with these functions arrested, etc. And here's the information: 'unobstructed work still'. That at least it is written that basic functions are still ongoing or that it is written that there is continuity in work etc. It's like nothing's happened to unobstructed work. So the assistant minister was caught, and that's how it's supposed to be watched. No Srbin, no Hrvat, no Bošnjak, there I agree with counterpart Novaković, it is clear that he is... now too. So, for 27 days, the Council of Ministers waited to respond to this case. For two years, Ilija Jurišić has not been in the position of the Council of Ministers. He is, of course, unfortunately, in prison in Belgrade. When the case was with Muhamed Brkić in Split, it was more than 30 days before the man came to freedom, although the Muhamed Brkić, whom they were looking for, died, is already two years old. It is interesting, however, that in the Dodik case everything is express and very quickly resolved in the Council of Ministers and there is a consensus that occurred within seven days. There, SNSD ministers easily persuaded Sadović and these others from the Federal Council of Ministers to agree, but these federal ones cannot convince these others to agree on certain things. You see warrants around BiH citizens, you see, some are in prison, etc. However, in order not to spread too much debate, I suggest, and there has been a lot of criticism today from the people within the ruling parties in Parliament, so I am going to propose one conclusion, another conclusion, precisely because of them. The first reads: 69 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver within seven days information to this home on the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković.' We have already concluded this once and we are looking for information from the BiH Council of Ministers. This is what this parliament has already sought once and we are looking for information it will sign, among other things, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because Mr Vuković has appointed the Council of Ministers of BiH, not the Minister of Security, to all these functions. The second conclusion: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the continued failure to implement conclusions, conclusions adopted and initiatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House, concludes that it will examine further confidence in the BiH Council of Ministers over the next 30 days." There are a whole book of conclusions adopted here, both by opposition and by MPs who belong to the ruling coalition, which are not realised. And there's no point in criticising the Council of Ministers anymore from MPs who make up the parliamentary majority, if we really don't want to get them serious. That's why I suggest this second conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24454	Replica, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm... I'm reporting for an incorrect quote, not for a replica, for an exposure of my colleagues...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24456	Incorrect quote, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24457	Denis Bećirović, who said the Council of Ministers reacted explicitly in the case of RS Prime Minister Mr Dodik. I want to tell you, Mr. Bećirović, that you either listened well to the media or had been misinformed, it was not, it was not a story directly about Mr. Dodik, but a report was requested from the Agency, or from SIPA to consider the situation in which the documentation was delivered and how this documentation came about. Since there are established opinions that there are parallel ways of functioning in the agency and the Council of Ministers is directly responsible for the agency and has the right to request a report. Here we are today, in some initiatives, also asking for a report on their work, that is, the work of a group or part of that agency. So don't bring up misinformation here, that was a story dedicated to Mr. Dodik or whatever. First, listen to it or tell it correctly, and then take it and talk to it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24458	Denis Bećirović, replica or what? 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24459	Replica,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24460	Not that Jozo... come.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24461	but very short. I was talking about the fact that the prime minister of the RS entity is also a citizen of BiH, as is the citizen of BiH and Ilija Jurišić and Muhamed Brkić and Vjekoslav Vuković and all others. And I asked the BiH Council of Ministers how did this express its response when it comes to Milorad Dodik, and for two years it cannot react when it comes to Ilija Jurišić, here is the issue of Vjekoslav Vuković and not to list other examples? So, not to spread replicas and big debates, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24462	Jozo Križanović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, I will still focus on this information that stands in the agenda. Namely, from this information is to immediately see and conclude that, first of all, we did not get the requested information. I wouldn't take the time to quote the conclusion of this house that Mr. Lozančić quoted. So I'd like to first find out that we didn't get the information we wanted. Secondly, this information can still show how our institutions function. As they operate from their point of view, let's say, protecting the citizens of BiH. Whether it is criminals, whether it is any citizen, but a BiH citizen and under the Constitution has the right to protect his institutions. The third conclusion being imposed is how individual BiH institutions treat this parliament. That's the constant subject I'm talking about. Until it's cleaned up here, we won't have any progress, simply. Please, a clear, concrete conclusion of this home goes to the Council of Ministers, and we from the Council of Ministers get unbroken, here's direct information, mostly the same information that we had from the Ministry of Security. And why is that unusual? Be careful, it is in a particular case, an assistant security minister who, in addition, is still in four important bodies representing BiH outside and several bodies that are doing very responsible and serious jobs in BiH. And it's amazing that with so much formalism the Council of Ministers is deafening and saying here you are, so you have fun in Parliament, let us go,...it's a small problem for us, is it? This House must not fall for that thing. She must not take over, as my colleague Lozančić suggested, that we here engage in whether to remove the suspension or, I don't know, take over other disciplinary actions. It's not the role of Parliament. The role of Parliament is to check whether BiH institutions operate by law, responsibly, etc. And unfortunately, here's the information itself and here alone this debate indicates that we have problems here. We will always be in favour of opening the debate when 71 BiH citizens' rights are lifted anywhere. But here it is, to say another additional, specific case that the Council of Ministers, in which Mr Vuković is an assistant minister, simply conveys one half of the information to Parliament and is not shown in any segment in respect of further actions or measures that should be taken. That's why I think, to insist on what I'm talking about, I'd say we don't accept this information and insist on carrying out the conclusion, as we've formulated it, as Mr. Lozančić quoted it in his opening part. Namely, why does it matter? It is important that from such complete information, if it was done as requested in this conclusion, we could read how our institutions relate to this issue, whether they are trained, whether there are legal barriers in their functioning, or whether it is a matter of affluent practice that we consider security to be just a matter of the Ministry of Security and of anyone else, that the right is only the Ministry of Justice, that crime is only a SIPA, etc. So, here, I wanted to make a point that we simply don't accept this information and return it to the Council of Ministers, with a request that we be made in accordance with the conclusion that we had at the previous House session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24464	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24465	Well, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, allow me to perhaps approach the question that is being asked here differently. And we can do it from newspaper articles. A verdict was carried out in Belgrade against a group of BiH citizens who committed a massacre in Zvornik in '92-'95. Ilija Jurišić caught in Belgrade, accused of committing a May 15th massacre in Tuzla. Five citizens of Tuzla brought to the Court of BiH, with a request for extradition to Belgrade for trial. Brkić Muhamed caught in Split at a request from Belgrade. Vjekoslav Vuković caught in Croatia titled preparing a terrorist coup. The head of the Prijedor municipality or the president, I don't know how, Parliament Speaker, Mr. Žunić, I catch in Germany. And we can expect that there will be more information like this unless certain measures are taken to ensure, above all, that this country judges its citizens. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about the fact that the situation, in my opinion, has become alarming. The charges against 19 citizens are expected to be filed, however, BiH, which reportedly committed a massacre in Sarajevo, etc. That's why I think this question is not just a question for these individuals. This is a question for the citizens of BiH. The issue of security and theirs, I would say, is a consistent relationship with the BiH state, but also with BiH. I believe that the Council of Ministers also has an argument about this, because we have ratified the Council of Europe's legal aid agreement, we have behind us and the Roman Way that talks about how to behave in these cases, and it is interesting that in no case that I can now manifest that he is a citizen... who is currently in the Council of Ministers, so I don't know tomorrow he will be an MP, the day after tomorrow there will be a second and a third, here is the Chief, etc. The question is why the Council of Ministers did not call a special session after these events, so 72 do not have to be the first, second, but after these events, and I would ask, I would say, a programme to protect the citizens of BiH, not withdrawing here, I would ask it not to be understood that we are asking it not to be tried. Unfortunately, we ask that they be prosecuted and tried in BiH. I think it's time for our Council of Ministers, Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all other ministries to get involved in solving this problem. Because, imagine, I beg the BiH Prosecution to prosecute me. I'd like you to be sure that you're sitting with a criminal or not sitting with a criminal. It's a shame for this parliament if for two years I ask someone to prosecute, and they won't do it. Therefore, the Prosecutor's Office should also be involved in this project, this programme, I would say, protecting BiH citizens from others but also protecting BiH from everyone, I would say, the negative consequences that can arise if these people are to blame and thus resolve and to gain the safety of our citizens. I think it's the only way to resolve it, because we can reopen this debate tomorrow in this House on the second, third, fifth and tenth. That's why I think this should be the Council of Ministers' task with all the ministries. And as for Mr. Vuković, I don't think he's guilty until he's proven guilty, which in no case means that the Council of Ministers and this state should take care of the citizen, no matter whether there is one passport or two passports. I think that's the basic task of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24466	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24467	Dear Chairman, here's what I'm going to say. The case of Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković opened all topics, a number of dilemmas about the functioning of BiH institutions. I'll počeću with the Security Minister's finding, Mr. Sadović. It's a good thing he also informed SIPA, Intelligence. So who knew anything about the security system? Well, I guess the minister or whoever's in charge is receiving that information from those services. Did these services not know or, if they did, why they hid the crime committed in the area of Sarajevo? Irregularity, they know everything. They're asking for money for everything and they need it. For this one case of so many people in security structures, no one's ever heard of him, nor has he delivered information to the Minister in charge, nor have we discussed it. We always do post-festum stuff and try to cure the consequences, which nobody in the world has done, because neither does the doctor. Here are respected professors and doctors, when they get cancer metastases, no cure, it's over, the story's over. But since we've accumulated everything here, then it's good that we really see how our institutions work. Mr. Lozančić said he'd ask for information. I'm going to remind you, I'm going to be looking for the fourth session of this House and it's nice to have information delivered to me. As possible, here we have heard from the minister, he used the car, it doesn't matter whose car it is – is it possible that the assistant minister has the right to an official car of the state, it doesn't matter which institutions, immediately, how from Mr. Minister his chief of staff drives an official car and from every minister, I will not enter, individually, from every minister. How is it possible that counselors in institutions drive state cars? Who gives it more? Who approves? What are the rules? When's the ride gonna end? Deputy Minister, Minister, Okay, Chairman, all right. When the MPs don't have any, why would he be a consultant at an agency? I'm going far, and so is Mr. Bešlagić. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24468	Slavko, darkness, darkness!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24469	Well, the theme was this. Gentlemen, I always call for honesty, for honesty. We're not being honest. You will never hear from the Serbian MP that they will ask that Ilija Jurišić return, but we will ask him to be tried in Belgrade, because the prosecution here did not want him to be tried, so that the court can judge him, because he is, and I welcome her, and I will never oppose her, for this side that says he was the BiH defender, it is acceptable for them to return. It's unacceptable for me to come back. And we will never reach a compromise and we should neither try nor argue about it. We had one, so I mentioned it 10 times, but forget it, 10 people and then we go, what we're gonna do, Vukovic is everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24470	Slavko, theme, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24471	Well, Mr. Bešlagić was talking, so you didn't warn him. A 10-Srbin group is being tried in Belgrade, no, no one has said anything. Here, I'm going back to Mr. Vuković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24472	So I'm biased, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24473	No, no, Mr. Vuković's theme. Who knows the man is guilty? What's the information that he really did it? The other thing, Mr. Križanović, is now saying all the colleagues, the man had important functions. Well, you know who he met. Isn't it tragic for this country to have the first information come that he's been working with Gregorijan through the media. When we had a meeting in this assembly to get out the Minister of Security and say because of, not this case, anything, the current security situation is not good in the country, because it's consistent with the parallel system of work of these, those, by listening to illegal operators, these, those. The people are panicking. Why didn't anyone come out? I asked you here, here, I got consent, I see and you're doing something, if we're going to survive. The citizens themselves will judge us, so we won't need Vjekoslav Vuković or Jurišić. Obama gathered Congress right away and said, "People, America goes down, 800 billion, find money, day six." We in recession for 13 years, no one mentions anything about what will happen to the people. Vuković's just a clagworth. Remember, colleagues, what will happen. So Mr. Vuković had very responsible functions at the ministry. The Council of Ministers appointed him to those functions. A man of trust. Which means the check was done, so he got it. Of course, a man could've done it by system today. So you see what's going on, today normal, says tomorrow he killed himself because he was insane. How is it possible that none – the key is to this operation – that no competent institution, SIPA and other security agencies are delivering information to the Minister whether he really dealt in the area of this city. So here 74 can everyone come into the city area and enter Parliament even make a dharma, not that we don't know what our assistant was doing. Well, he wasn't such a meaningless person. If nothing else, many could see him as a handsome guy and handsome, because he was giving away the impression of an actor, not an official. So he was spotted. This isn't a joke. This is all, Mr. Belkić, our system that doesn't work. The system's not working, Mr. Belkić. Who's going to put this country in order? We got the information for the cars, so the newspaper announced that 1,860 phones are being used, the secretary, is entitled to 200 marks on the phone. When is this country gonna get on its feet? It's Vuković, it's me, it's Mr. Belkić, it's this parliament, it's the system. So we catch up with one story when this all happens. I repeat, many will be ashamed. We'll see, I won't judge whether he's guilty or not, I don't know, people. And I'd like to know what the information is, because he was in the Sarajevo area. What did he do? So it's not possible to accept this, and I'd very much like to do it. We can't. We can't. We can't. We can't. I can't take it from here. But I saw Mr. Vuković here in Parliament, I never hung out with him. Mr. Vuković will Tužiće this country, so he will pay as for many others today, which we have problems, which we have sinned without knowing what happened. Does anyone know anything today, we're not a court or a prosecutor's office, is Mr. Vuković guilty? Is there a service to give us information? I don't need it, I won't. I'm all the way out there on that commission, says protection of classified information. What secret information? As soon as the group knows five people, there's no secret. What secret are we talking about here? Was it a secret without Mr. Minister knowing what those agencies were doing? Could they have collected that he was going, here hypothetically, every seven days in Rijeka, and maybe he hasn't gone in two months? What's he going in there, what's that official vehicle using? Well, gentlemen, when I get to the border with my diplomatic passport, I take off my belt and my shoes, I take everything off, and I'm almost naked. Not like that, go through and tie something else. Our services had to have information, and that's the key to functioning. Not the minister who gave the information, not me looking for what happened today, no, it's Vuković's fault. This system, this country doesn't work. And that's gonna hurt our head, and we didn't think of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24474	We have a replica of Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24475	Well, this is the correcting of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24476	I'm sorry, the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24477	I would ask Mr. Jovičić not to speak in a way that he exclusively represents the entire peoples as he has now told us, "You will never hear from any Serbian MP." Mr. Jovičić can speak for SNSD. I don't know if he can speak for the entire entity. As for this BiH Parliament, the only legal representative of the Serb people on the 51% state territory of BiH in this parliament is Mirjana Malić, an SDP MP who also sought what she asked for, as did the other SDP MPs, in connection with Ilija Jurišić, as well as numerous Tuzlan Srbin, led by Dr Nada Mladina, the chairman of the Municipal Council, asked for the release of Ilija Jurišić, as we see for these two years in 75 Belgrade of dozens of witnesses. Everyone said he wasn't guilty or never heard or saw Ilija Jurišić. So we're not trying to make his position more difficult for a man who's in a difficult situation anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24478	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24479	Well, I may have, Mr. Bećirović, and I was wrong, but I didn't hear you say I speak for myself for Mr. Ilija Jurišić, not once, never. So then I didn't know if you were speaking for your party, whether you were speaking for Tuzlak or for NGOs, whether you were speaking for the people. Now, if I didn't do it all over again, I'm speaking for myself. I would never sign or ask, whatever function I am in, for Ilija Jurišić to return. The court will show. Of course you don't like it. And I welcome you for doing it like that. If it were the opposite situation, I would do so, because he is your BiH defender. It's not for me. He's committed for me, I don't know yet, the court will prove if he committed the crimes. Court, not me. But that's where he answers and we'll see. A lot of people in this country have been in various locations closed and proven their innocence and what happened? According to the folk bite, nothing happened, no damage, no people had fractures, no marital shipwrecks, no severe trauma. Who made it up to them? It's nothing. A lot's happened. We have never had such a debate in Parliament. So, we're having all these post-festum cases so that we can remember what's key, what I'm pleading, why this country's institutions don't function. Isn't it a shame? Someone mentioned the D.A.'s office. The prosecution took the case, so this man could say he didn't do it or he did it for Mr. Jurišić. Here, you had a case, what was going to happen, it could have been an international scandal, but the Hamat who confessed, when he asked Belgrade to be extradited there, remembered the federal prosecutor's office to question him. So what have you guys been waiting for for 10 years, he's been in jail for 10 years. Question me, anyone you suspect. Don't read Free Bosnia and avaz, they write best. But what are our agencies doing? Are we just gonna read the paper? I keep saying it, and I'm going to say it, this country and the agencies aren't working. We submitted an initiative on the parallel system this morning, and when the debate comes up, we'll talk about what happened there. Is it possible to turn yourself in or hand in without the minister knowing that he doesn't know that the director of the SIPA doesn't know, I don't know how many. When they come before this parliament to say, people, we are incompetent and those around me are co-workers. They're a danger to me, they're working against me, I don't know anything about what they're doing. Does one of the officials have to say, "I know and control my staff?" There's not one. Now, let's go around the building and see where the assistants are. With the official cars, everyone's driving. Who authorized them? And that's not one example.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24480	Replica, Branko Dokić. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24481	I'd like to ask all my colleagues and colleagues to help the chairman run the session, and we'll help him if we stick to the agenda. We've been discussing Vuković for almost two hours, 60% of the two hours we've talked about other issues. Well, it's like, through this question, we wanted all our differences and our passing through to solve it. And, on the other hand, we don't have to. First of all, let's not when we don't have a direct answer to a question that's on the agenda that we open our dilemmas to others, like we do, which we don't have anything to do with the agenda, but we don't even have anything to do with the jobs that we do here. And in the end, must every thing be replicated? And I want to remind you of one thought of dostojevski, which says, "If you go towards a certain goal and throw yourself at every dog that barks, you will never reach the goal." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24482	Thank you, Mr. Dokić, but you have abused me, too. You volunteered for the replica and did what I was supposed to do. I've asked for it a few times already. We still have a reported replica of Mr Bešlagić and I hope that in this way...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24483	I would only replicate Mr. Jovičić but very briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24484	If it's just? It's just at everybody's place, Selime.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24485	I would ask Mr. Jovičić to recognise this state and in fact confess to this state to judge the citizens of BiH. In my debate there was a question and a group from Zvornik. So, you see, I didn't say one, I said group from Zvornik, where the state was supposed to take up the procession in BiH, please. Therefore, I was talking here about the citizens of BiH, and in this context, I think it is the Council of Ministers' and this Parliament's task to fight to recognise BiH in its capacity. And does the D.A. do us any good, I'll tell you right now, I'm not happy either, and I'm supposed to be processed, nothing more. That's why I'm here, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24486	Mirko Okolić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24487	Thank you, Chairman. 77 Here, this item of our agenda is called Information on the case Vjekoslav Vuković and the activities taken after this event. Here, another piece of evidence, I don't mean to criticize anyone, but this is simply well-intentioned to all of us, as we hastily bring the name dots and especially those points that we run for the assembly itself. For many of these points, we do not need to go into regular procedure and run for office in the congregation itself. But that's where it's said... with a good explanation, but good. And here is a skillful use of the name of this agenda point by both the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. And to them, it's a great honor, people have acted the way they do to satisfy the point of the agenda that's called this. However, we have made a big mistake here, that is, the promoter, and there is no mention of the assistant minister anywhere, but of Vjekoslav Vuković, it is said. In my opinion, he should have been an assistant minister, because we should also discuss his duties and functions in this ministry and in this country, and the name Vjekoslav Vuković could have been Mehmed Suljkanović or Marko Marković. It's the least important. But what happens now? It happens that we've been looking for this information the way it is, and it contains the following, or should contain it. The information is whether Vjekoslav Vuković was arrested, and he did. He was arrested where, under what circumstances, what is placed on him as a reasonable doubt that he was arrested, whether he was in custody or not, was he released on bail or not on bail, whether he was returned or not? It is information about the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, an assistant minister. Everything else here has been turned into a policy, and at least we've talked about whether he's guilty or not. Is it the Minister's fault, the Council of Ministers or anyone else? If someone wants to question who's guilty here, let them, if they have so much courage to ask for it before tomorrow, let them set the stage of the agenda, I will never support it in that I'm saying whether Vjekoslav Vuković as assistant minister is guilty of his work now or not. It's a matter of court. I was interested in knowing as an MP, when I was asked tomorrow by representatives of information and citizens, was he arrested? Yes, it is. Where was he arrested? Is it true he was in custody? Yes, it is. Is it true he was released and now he's home? Yes, it is. Is it true that he did those duties? Yes, it is. That's what one of the information of this character that we've been looking for can contain. And now why he was driving the car, why he left without a warrant, why there's some xy still behind him, it should be the subject of another debate, and should whoever wants it, at this point after a court ruling or a court proposal to know, to run differently the question. And someone has suggested here, it seems to me Mr. Bećirović, that he will again ask the Council of Ministers, since last time it was asked for the Council of Ministers to deliver that information, to be signed by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, information under the same name. I appeal again and disagree, and I will never support it to be information about the Vjekoslav Vuković case and all of Vjekoslav Vuković's cases. It's a case, I guess here should be standing about... etc., it should stand, in my opinion, assistant minister of security, and then can be added the name and name of Vjekoslav Vuković, who is under the name and last name of such a minister. And we're discussing here the assistant minister, or we should discuss, not some citizen who's been arrested, not a citizen who's been arrested. This parliament should discuss if the competent institutions do not give it enough protection legally and each other, then parliament. If we are to discuss any citizen why he was arrested in any of the countries, then this parliament will not get anywhere. They'll take the information of those institutions that they need to discuss. And we will, of course, only do it in that case if his rights are not fully protected. 78 And finally, I think that this Parliament has matured, and you can see from all of these points, it's actually not from all of them, from most of it, here as it is from this, that we mostly go to those topics that hurt us, so at least we're talking about what's called the agenda point. Maybe initiate one item of the agenda, if no one remembers before me, or feels the need, maybe I'll start some free topics sometime, so it's called the agenda point, and then we'll start from who I remember to who Mr. Chairman remembers, so neither do I, Mrs. Milica, my dear colleague, or someone else, and then we'll take one thematic session and talk about it, is it? So go outside the agenda and finish one point in two and a half hours instead of 15 minutes, because that's the point we've been looking for, it's a waste of time for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24488	I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Information on BiH's non-permanent membership activities in the UN Security Council in 2010 – 2011 A little reminders, an initiative and a request were filed by an MP from Lagumdžija, who was regularly absent and presented at the 44th session, on 17 February 2009. The foreign ministry provided this information regarding BiH's bid for membership in the Security Council. Earlier, we also received the Work Plan of the Co-ordination Team to run a campaign for BiH's non-permanent membership in the Security Council. We also received a few additional information from the president of this coordination team on what activities are being carried out. We also received a request to run for a member of the Coordination Team, which unfortunately we haven't agreed yet, some have refused, some do not want to run, etc. Anyway, we have this information we've been looking for today. The Commission had a session but did not get to finish this job that was supposed to give an opinion. And here, I'm opening a debate on this point 17. Here, your will, your will, is there? Slavko Matić, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24490	Thank you very much. Here, in the opening part, when you opened this item of the agenda, you already said that the Foreign Affairs Committee had this kind of material yesterday, that is, the agenda point. And yesterday, in the late afternoon, we came to this point and in the initial discussions, we threw the emphasis on trying to find a solution to give the candidates a proposal so that the Parliamentary Assembly would also be represented with its member within the Coordination Team, but later we lost time in all these discussions and did not even discuss the activities that were led and therefore did not give an opinion on these activities. 79 But here, let me, as a representative, not on behalf of the Committee, say that I welcome all these activities taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Coordination Team, although in incomplete composition. And somehow I am convinced that BiH will reach its goal and become a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the period 2010. - 2011, especially after it happened in September last year that Poland, as an anti-candidate from this Eastern European group, has given up and has explained its resignation in a way that it is in favour of BiH and is calling on all other countries that have supported Poland until then to support BiH. This has greatly increased our chances, but it would be a good thing that the Parliamentary Assembly fills this place, given that all other institutions, such as members of the Presidency, have given their representatives from their cabinets, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. that they appointed the persons on the Co-ordination Team. Yesterday, the Committee came up thinking about certain names. Here, I'm going to say one that I firmly believe would have been unanimously adopted on the Committee, but we didn't get into it, because we didn't know if we had the consent of the person we were talking about. It is about Mr. Mladen Ivanić, who is an envoy to the House of Peoples, who has recently been off the post of chairman and would therefore have more time. The other variant, or other way of thinking, appeared as a proposal, one of the members of the Committee, I am no longer sure who, that this representative of ours, would be the person on the job of the Speaker of the House of Representatives in the period of time on the job. Which means when it got to the rotation, whoever replaced it would have entered the Coordination Team. Anyway, I personally think it would be a good idea for both colleges to deal with these at home. If it is not possible for you to meet, the College of the House of Representatives shall have that mandate and appoint any of the persons. I believe you can still talk to Mr Ivanić. If not with him, then anyone else. It is more appropriate to do so by the College of the House of Representatives. Give Bog and both colleges together than the Foreign Affairs Committee only one home. The people's homes have a similar commission, and I don't know where we get the right to appoint a person who should be representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in just one commission of one home. If we need some conclusion in this regard, although I don't think there is a need, here we could reach a conclusion at the House of Representatives today that we are looking for or empowering the College of this House to appoint a person who would be a member of the Co-ordination Team as a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly to run a campaign for BiH's entry into a non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24491	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24492	Thank you, Chairman. Since this is a very important issue, and I expected the minister to explain a few vague situations, here I am now going to remind you of the unclear situations. It is obvious that we have a great chance of having the support of our neighbours in Southeast Europe first, but also of some well-intentioned friends in the world. Obviously, a very extensive campaign has been launched and you have made a major contribution to this campaign. But there are also 80 obvious and two undisputed facts that can disrupt this successful start of these activities: it is a fact that BiH does not have full sovereignty with the presence of OHR and that it would be the first country to be a non-permanent UN member with the position of OHR in one country, and another indisputable fact that BiH does not have a single foreign policy or has a unique position on very important issues that are happening in the world, starting from Kosovo and not talking about the position of Israel and war and not saying the conflict in Ossetia and Russia, that I do not now mention a whole series of issues that we do not have a single position on. My question to you: 'If we quantify these two undisputed facts, how much this reduces BiH's chances of this campaign by 2010/2011. At best, it ends the way we all want it to?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24493	Mr. Minister, I suggest we listen, we only have two reports, and then we'll give you the opportunity to comment and give you information. Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24494	I thank you, Chairman. Here, we have this document in front of us and we should certainly thank the MPs who asked him to be the topic of this House's debate, and I think it's useful for all of us MPs to have it. The document is complete and I think that it fully reflects the state and the way we should enter into this process of activities that the Ministry has undertaken, in which all institutions should be involved, which resources are all needed, from those financial, technical and human activities plan containing. So, one document complete that, without much debate, I think we should show here as the highest home, as the most legislative body in BiH that we support our efforts to be an active participant in international politics, not only to be a subject of international policy observation, and this is an opportunity to through, not to demean the impact of our membership in some UN committees that have been mentioned here, to be, means one non-permanent member in the Security Council. What I would like, with the support I am giving this document, to mention here that, given that there are no proposed conclusions to this material, we see that one working group is being formed, a working team of 13 members who have the opportunity to expand their groups that would work on it, I would suggest that we, as Parliament's House of Representatives, adopt two conclusions with this information. The first conclusion is: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports the foreign ministry for the implementation of the Action Plan and the BiH Institute's Action Plan in the process of lobbying BiH for non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council for the 2010 Mandatory Period. - 2011. 81 And another conclusion: 'To charge all BiH institutions to comply with their commitments under the Action Plan. One of the obligations of the Council of Ministers is to provide certain resources to provide certain technical assumptions." I don't know how much of what was happening in the Republic of Croatia, which is currently a non-permanent member, that all diplomacy, as far as I know, has been involved, has been invested in these campaigns, and what we can least do is to support this team, to give it the obligations, to the BiH institutions, to make those commitments that should be made in this plan that are listed to respect them. In that sense, I've made these two conclusions and I'm going to let them in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24495	Denis Bećirović, replica. Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24496	Mr. Živković. Since we are talking about BiH's activities for admission to non-permanent membership, counterpart Živković said it could be a problem for us in the sense that BiH does not have certain or full sovereignty on the plan. I don't think BiH's sovereignty can be disputed in a legal sense because of the international community's presence in our country, through the BiH High Representative institution, because BiH, as well as any other UN member, has not been denied any right that belongs to it. It is very important here to say that the High Representative here is not of his own free will, but that the High Representative in BiH wills BiH. And on the day that this is a functional state, where everyone will want it to be as efficient and closer to the EU, then we won't need a High Representative. But therefore, in this way interpret the concept of BiH's sovereignty, I don't think it's simply standing. In addition, today the sovereignty of all countries in the world, not only BiH, is divided between different actors, both national, regional, international, and therefore BiH is no exception in this respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24497	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24498	There are many discussions in BiH about whether BiH has or has no sovereignty or whether it has full sovereignty, you can read about it in... consideration of the professor from Slovenia, who claims that BiH has external and no internal sovereignty. See only how decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court can be annulled by the second OHR decision, etc. However, my proposal, and then the entire Kolegijum's proposal was accepted, that Mr Lagumdžija be our member in the commission, was one reason to explain how this BiH with OHR, with partial sovereignty, could, in my opinion, be a non-permanent member.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24499	Azra Alajbegović. Eighty-two, and I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24500	Respecting the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24501	Is this a replica, Mr. Bećirović? Did I get a good look at this?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24502	It's not a problem. Let the colleague finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24503	I'm just asking if I saw right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24504	I would like to say that I do not think it is a good idea for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the House of Peoples of BiH to continue to extend the appointment of MPs or MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly or the House of Peoples in the Co-ordination Team to run a campaign for non-permanent BiH membership in the Security Council in 2010. - 2011 for a lot of reasons. One of these reasons is that, in fact, we exclude ourselves from this important process ourselves, and on the other hand very often very often we object to the Council of Ministers and some resolute ministries, in this situation it is the bearer of activity next to the Presidency of the Resolute Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the Parliamentary Assembly is in some way excluded from such important processes. So, we would have to show more consistency in our own work and that this process of appointing a representative or a representative in the Coordination Team is being implemented urgently, because a largely already co-ordination team is working and I think that only in fact on this entire team, that I do not now list all the institutions that participate in its work, only lack a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so that I ask the Joint College to, in some way, agree on the names and last names of representatives or representatives and to bring this process to an end in order for the Parliamentary Assembly to participate in the work of this Coordination Team in full capacity and, in some ways, to do, this representative, its respectable work. I hope we will choose such a member who will lead to a transparent, correct, quality and sincere fight for BiH's entry into the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24505	Thank you. Thank you, Denis Bećirović. Here, Minister Alkalaj. You have the opportunity to answer both questions and provide further information. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I think the information was complete and really all these issues of those activities that we've been doing and that's our daily question. Regular sessions and the College and reports of the Co-ordination Committee that works, let me say, in full capacity. I would be very pleased to get the name and representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of any home, it doesn't matter. But I think that in its foreign policy activity, the Parliamentary Assembly has a large and significant place and because of the number of meetings it has, we need to have that member as soon as possible. That, to say the least, is a representative who will be part of the team led by our ambassador, former ambassador, Ambassador Miloš Prica, a man with experience in these affairs, and I think he's doing well. So I'd like to ask you as soon as possible to get the candidate's name. Here, let me refer to these questions that the honourable MP Živković mentioned. The OHR and question: sovereignty yes or no? There is no written or other indication, let me say, that BiH becomes a member of this world's highest body and is elected to this place. Well, let me tell you, by joining the EU, you're handing over some of the sovereignty, if that's what we're going to do. What's different than the Lisbon Treaty? What is the European Constitution that needs to be... Therefore, I think that no candidate country that has a chance will be bothered by this OHR institution that will, somewhere in the future, stop working, move to the UN Special Representative. So it shouldn't be a distraction so we can say we're running. And to confirm this from my numerous conversations with the members of the great forces, the permanent members of the Security Council, I can, I'll just mention... The Russian Federation and the United States and the United Kingdom gave undisputed full support and expressed great satisfaction that BiH could become. Therefore, if the great powers can give such an approach, why can we, who are struggling to fight it, escape ourselves with a carpet under our feet. As for the single position, you see, the EU has no unique position on Kosovo, so they are also in the Security Council and they are discussing it. We will take the positions we will take. You had the countries Morocco and Algeria same in the Security Council, so the Western Sahara issue, they don't have a common position and they don't exactly match, so they're back on the Security Council. Here, I will point out, it is also mentioned in this information that BiH is a member of the UN Human Rights Council. We're doing great here, we've got the best of praises. We, in the largest number of resolutions, follow the EU and take positions, and therefore, let me say, we receive praise as one of the most active members of that UN body. So no moment has the OHR been mentioned as a distraction. And I would ask that, in all our conversations and in future, we seek support. At this point we have 60 written, we expect the next 10 to get the necessary 128 and the dynamics going, so we will have a large majority, and the fact is that we are the only candidate and, let me say, supported by our group, an Eastern European group of 23 countries from which one such candidate could run, that we are unanimously supported and I think we have great guarantees that we will become. And now this question, as Ambassador Nanić said, is a matter of funds. We asked the Council of Ministers for the support of 650,000 KM for a campaign that must be a promotional campaign, which is also the promotion of BiH. We have already started with one event in New York, a cultural event where BiH presents itself in another light, in one light of rich, cultural traditions, and thus, to say the same, creates a better and wider picture. 84 What can BiH citizens expect from this? One indisputable increased BiH's reputation in the world, one facilitating way, to say, and a greater reputation in the way of progress towards Euro-Atlantic integration and to say that it is starting to play a significant role as a country that is ready to help solve crisis encounters, not a country that will be subject to a Security Council resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24507	Thank you, Bog heard you. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Information on crimes against dignity of persons and morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings in 2006 and 2007, and on the first nine months of 2008 ... The Department of Security delivered the information. It was discussed by the Constitutional Commission. We got an information opinion on February 27th. The Commission has accepted the Information and recommends that we take it to our home. I'm opening a debate on item 18. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm going to point 19. Ad. 19. Information from the foreign ministry on the European Parliament Resolution on Srebrenica, Strasbourg, January 14th and 15th 2009.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered not with the intention to comment and to discuss this item on the agenda because this is as it was addressed in the Information Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the European Parliament Resolution on Srebrenica is actually set up as 'Information', as well as some previous information, and that, as far as I know and how I got the material, I did not get any written information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding this Resolution, but I got the Resolution of the European Parliament on Srebrenica and it was said, when I was interested, that it was actually: The Resolution is this 'Information' and we should get to know it. It is true that you said that in your previous session, the Commission received Resolution as an information material at its previous session and as a material that takes note. There was no debate on this material, but we took it into consideration only, and it is true that counterpart Bećirović also asked Parliament to get acquainted with this information. Therefore, the Commission did not conclude that the resolution was referred to the debate in Parliament, but that the resolution would be delivered to all MPs as a material to be met and to which it would take note. So I suggest and suggest that since we've all got this material and I guess they've all read it, we're familiar with it, to take it as a material that's being taken into account. Otherwise, if we open the debate on the essence of this Resolution, on what it says as accompanying material in that Resolution, what the European Parliament said, why were they who, why were those who were abstention or against, I think we will remain at that point in the agenda until midnight, with numerous discussions and numerous replicas that will surely follow. It's just for informing how it was... what happened to the Foreign Affairs Commission, whose member I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24511	Reminders for the sake of this, I believe that most MPs and without this commission are familiar with this Resolution. Of course, but here we have done as we have received the matter from the Commission and I believe and colleagues in the College absolutely do not think or have had the ambition to discuss the content of this Resolution. It is a European Parliament resolution and I do not see how anything in that resolution can be changed, because it is a document adopted. So we can just talk about what, take some conclusions, possibly propose some activities in the state, which, of course, should be made clear. I don't see any reason we have to stay till midnight. We'll talk like humans. There's no problem. Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24512	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak for a long time for reasons that I would not in any way challenge the replicas, because I believe that what will be in 10 years will not be the subject of replicas from anyone in BiH, but I believe that for some time... I believe in such a BiH where people will accept the truth about what was in Srebrenica and in a certain way and adequately treat it all. 86 BiH signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU and in a certain way accepted the standards, i.e. the obligations arising from all documents brought by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers of Europe. Also, all BiH politicians have a commitment when it comes to BiH's foreign policy goal of becoming a member of the EU as soon as possible, given the fact that the European Parliament has adopted this resolution with a huge majority of votes and that it is much more open to the European Parliament than in the BiH Parliament. But I will underline, I believe, that there will be strength in some future period and there will be power in this house from all the parliamentarians in this house in BiH to approach in a sincere way what is called Srebrenica and genocide committed in '95. the years and the judgment of the Court. So it's not a one-national, one-sided story, but it's the biggest court case when it comes to the verdict of what happened in Srebrenica. I'll read a part of the introduction, let me call it, this Resolution where one of the points in the debates is also a recognition of the responsibility of the international community for the genocide committed in Srebrenica. In addition, it was indicated that the adoption of such a resolution should contribute to the memory of the victims, honoring the victims, sympathising with the pain of the families, and contribute to reconciliation, because, as noted during the discussion, truth and justice are the preconditions of reconciliation. It also indicated that the resolution should aim to contribute to progress on BiH's path to the EU. The main purpose of the resolution is to strengthen awareness of the tragedy of Srebrenica across Europe and to contribute to public recognition of responsibility for the Western Balkans. In addition, we elaborate the most significant, and not to read in order what those who have spoken of this Resolution have said. The resolution refers to a country whose representatives we are here in this House and I think we're sticking our heads in the sand, who we all say we should take it to the knowledge. This resolution, in a certain way, will offer countries in Europe to mark July 11th in a dignified way. I believe that many EU countries will do so that have accepted the truth about what happened in Srebrenica. I call on this parliament to adopt today the conclusion that I delivered on the benches of the MPs, which reads: "It is the Council of Ministers' duty to refer to the parliamentary procedure a bill marking July 11th as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of genocide in Srebrenica throughout the BiH area." It is the least this Parliament, which this country should do in this period that is ahead of us and in such a way responds to the European Parliament resolution,... let me put it this way, because BiH has a tendency to be one of its MPs, or MPs in the same European Parliament and as a country that will be members of this body in the coming period. I think that these things should not only be received to the knowledge, but also to this Parliament of BiH and the Council of Ministers, and that it says that everything should be delivered to the Resolution, and to the entity parliaments, because it is necessary to find an adequate answer to all that is written in the Resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24513	I've got a move on. Denis Bećirović. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24514	I will not discuss these discussions during the European Parliament's meeting or the content of this Resolution. I guess you all got that text like me, that we all had a chance to read and prepare for this part of the agenda. I think that a clear message should be sent from BiH today, everyone, so MPs in the House of Representatives, that we are, above all, aware of everything that happened in 1995. This text without any problems, I think we can all accept today. And I don't think this resolution was adopted because we would just get to know her, to put her somewhere in the archive, she was primarily directed, among other things, to the BiH state for her future, but also to the future of the entire region. It is true that I have proposed this at the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting, but I must say that I have proposed it to enter the agenda so that we as Parliament would manifest ourselves against this Resolution, because I do not think there is any reason why we do not support this resolution today. In this regard, I propose three possible conclusions that I propose within this agenda point: '1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports the text of the Srebrenica Resolution adopted by the European Parliament at a session on 14 and 15 January 2009. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls, first and foremost, on the Western Balkan state to support the text of the Srebrenica Resolution as an expression of preparedness and the building of lasting peace and stability, so we are not already calling. 3. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly concludes that within 30 days of today, the text of the Resolution on Srebrenica will be delivered to all elected officials of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities at the state, entity, cantonal and municipal level." So every councilman in every municipality in BiH in the cantonal parliament, in entity to state authorities, should receive this text of the European Parliament's Resolution and be directly informed of what the European Parliament has concluded on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24515	Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think this Parliament has missed an opportunity to be in an active position than it is now, i.e. I think this Parliament should have adopted the resolution before it adopted the European Parliament and then it would have been a real relationship with what happened in Srebrenica, but since we did not, I think we should have a view of the resolution, and continue, in my opinion, to be such that we support the Resolution. To shorten the whole story, I fully support this proposal of conclusions proposed by my colleague Bećirović, so as not to further discuss. 88 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24517	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24518	I thank you, Mr. President. So I'm saying that we're not going back to whether we missed something or not, that here we still accept the importance of this Resolution as a House of Representatives, to get out of it, in my opinion, that one very round and complete document, so I'm just going to quote two messages to future generations: '1. The European Parliament remembers and honours all victims of cruelty during the war in the former Yugoslavia. 2. He expressed his condolences and solidarity with the families of the victims of whom many live today without final confirmation of the fate of their fathers, sons, husbands, or brothers. It calls for the institutionalization of the anniversary of this act of genocide." I think, we are directly invited by the European Parliament here, the countries of the Western Balkans, and I think that we should accept this conclusion on the institutionalisation of that day by this Parliament as a minimum of our relationship. And, third thing, not to politicize whether it's a question but to do what it says in Recommendation 4. Reconciliation as part of the European integration process, the importance of the religious communities, the media and the education system... and the trauma and injustices that happened never to happen again in BiH. And this should be one of the permanent specifics of this Parliament's work, a reminder strongly and I think and today's reactions here encourage me in the sense that there is no willingness to resist in any way, but we can also not only retain ourselves at accepting this to knowledge, but by affirming these recommendations and the continued relationship of this home to these recommendations from the European Parliament's Resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24519	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 20. Ad. 20. Information on floods in Pop's field, Krupa river and Hut's mud area, with the proposal for conclusions Let me remind you, at the beginning of the session when I was explaining how the agenda was encrypted, I noted that last session we had Martin Raguž's initiative to include this, but that after the debate we had concluded that we were getting additional materials. 89 Unfortunately, until this moment, we were unable to get the additional materials we were looking for in the way it was proposed, so we at the College, out of respect for the promoter, not to drag the matter away, put this back on the agenda. It's up to us today to make a deal. Here, Mr. Živković, not to say, some of his personal interventions came up with material directed towards the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Slovenia, but here, it is up to us today to see if there have been any conditions and whether something has changed in terms of the conditions we had at the last session, or whether today simply to postpone this in some way the debate on this agenda point. But here it is, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24521	I thank you, Mr. President. Due to my absence, I did not participate in the preparation of the agenda, but last time, I accepted the intervention of my colleagues, including Mr Živković and my colleagues from the SNSD, that we do not have a debate on this serious and responsible issue until they have obtained, as they have requested, relevant information. And the other thing, not only did we ask for relevant information, we have commissioned the Council of Ministers to prepare a certain kind of approach to this issue, which is not only about these floods, because it is shown that in many areas, this is one of the most important areas of life, there is neither prevention nor monitoring nor the possibility of responding to things in quality, and therefore we all have unanimously, I remind you, accepted here in the House. And, regardless of what I consider to be my information, the proposal for conclusions and all relevant documents very seriously prepared, I still think that this debate, if we have then concluded, should not be conducted without a document, or a Council of Ministers' provision. That would be wrong. If we had that principle last time, we can't go into another principle today: here, now I've brought my material and we'll discuss it. We were looking for Council of Ministers material. And let's stick to our conclusion. Maybe it wasn't enough time, we don't prejudge anything, we open a debate with what's in RS documents and all the relevant documents, but let's get one basis that will bring us into a serious debate. I think it's one minimum, and I suggest that we wait for the next session as a proposal for this agenda point. I think it's a reasonable deadline. If there is no response by then from the Council of Ministers, I will specifically determine myself on such a relationship with the Council of Ministers, and I believe this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24522	I think this is a correct proposal and I suggest we stay out of it. Here's a little replica, though, but it's not big. Let's postpone the debate, simple. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24523	The replica is because at first we don't clear things up and then we come into a position to accuse each other, and we think the same thing. Our intention to propose this point was because we didn't have an extended college yesterday, you know for what reasons. At the extended college, we could agree on this way to solve this point and postpone it for the next time. But I'm on insistence, my insistence was to put this item on the agenda so we can agree here that there are no agenda points and say we don't want to put it on the agenda. So, I'm thinking the same thing as you, Mr. Martina, think. But I was able to prepare this myself and it is stated here that it is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I expect them to give me some other information. I agree with you to wait until next session and there's no problem. But don't give me any criticism that we want something under the grain now, that we won't have a debate, etc., when I think what you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24524	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24525	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24526	No, I have to. It goes into a stenogram. Turns out, I didn't accuse anyone with a single word, I just asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24527	No one was accusing anyone. There was just a little misunderstanding. Here, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24528	No, here's the real deal, but from what I'm saying, don't. Here, Mr. Živković replicated to me, let the stenogram be looked at.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24529	Here, I'm sorry now. Mr. Raguž, I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24530	Please, have I ever accused Mr. Živković or anyone? I mean, don't. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24531	Mr. Raguž, here's my apologies for putting this on the agenda, or for not providing the material. And please, there's a general mood. Mr. Novaković, can you refrain from discussing? You, too, is it just a little bit? Is it just a little bit, Momo?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24532	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I have a business intervention and an MP. Namely, I have now tried and failed to find anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that members of the College do not have to report for discussion and replicas, I have not seen anywhere that members of the College write to report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24533	I've explained several times that we can't technically... have no button to push. We'll make it here so you can see everything, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24534	And secondly, there is no business provision under which a member of the College takes precedence over the MPs. So, the Rules of Procedure don't say anything except for members of the Council of Ministers that when they report, it means only for them. All of us here are completely equal, with members of the College coming out for a pay phone, and we're talking from the scene. It's a business thing. Of course, I don't mind changing our Rules of Procedure to make it different. This is just a little bit, by the way. So, as far as this agenda point is concerned, we had a agenda point last time, and the explanation was that we would put it on so that we could postpone the debate until we got the Council of Ministers' position. And that's how we did it and there's no need to put it back on to figure out what we did last time and we figured it out. Here I think the ultimate irresponsibility and inconclusiveness of the Council of Ministers and the relationship to this issue. I must say that because this issue is more serious... it may have more serious consequences than it seems to be sleeping between me and Mr. Raguž. And on that side, Mr. Raguž is right. So, I support this proposal. I agree with Mr. Živković, too, but I got up to say it because I thought I had answered the word before, Živković though we didn't press it, but it seemed to me that I did before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24535	Mr. Novaković, it was a replica. We can agree that we will come forward the next day, it is no problem, because we simply – just a little please – why are we wasting time on ourselves. The promoter made it clear that he was ready to postpone the debate and did not insist that we conduct the debate because we do not have the material. And why are we making things more complicated now, and why are we wasting time on each other? Please, we'll get back to you. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24536	The replica was when I answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24537	And it was a replica, it's true. But there's no problem. We'll raise our hands to see when we apply, no problem at all, no problem at all. So please, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24538	Thank you, Mr. President. This is all I wanted to demonstrate to Mr. Novaković, an esteemed colleague, that we are not equal. You, when you raise your hand or when you press the appropriate device, are immediately seen in front of the president that you have answered. And I have to whisper for 15 minutes, so you don't mind me speaking to the president, and I want to say something. So we're not even, but no, we're not more equal than you, but we're less equal than you. And I really didn't understand, and I'm not complaining about it. That's unfortunately, we're in a lot less equal than you, you know, to the fact that we're sitting here. I don't know what you wanted to say about this agenda point, whether it's the president or not. He's the president, and I've been in the chair a dozen times, so I explained a dozen times that we don't have the possibility of technically registering our application. And I don't see what the problem is now within this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24539	It's a good thing I don't make it too complicated. So, when we get to the vote, we'll vote on this debate at the next session. We're going to point 21. Ad. 21. Consideration of the Opinion on continued attacks on journalists and a journalistic profession, with particular reference to the threat of independent media reporting in BiH – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović This is exactly and precisely stated as MP Bećirović wrote. So, reminders are running, Mr. Denis Bećirović has requested inclusion in the agenda. We didn't have an entity majority. We've conducted the alignment procedure and we've reached agreement at the level of the College to include this as a part of the agenda for today's session. So at the last session, you received a proposal for this point, or a proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate. 93 Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I looked at these conclusions that my colleague Bećirović provided us for consideration and eventual adoption, and since it seems to me that in the proposal of these conclusions it was one-sided, so that it was seen from only one angle, and not from all angles and from all sides, a certain topic being treated in these conclusions, and that is why I had to say a few things about this. Although I think and believe that even my fellow Members feel that it is not very instructive and it is not useful to report that anything you say is not affirmative and is not positive when it comes to journalists and journalism, because it has become a well-established rule and in practice which is unfortunately imposed by journalists in BiH that they are untouchable and that whatever you say about journalists and their actions, in general, employees in public means of information, will be treated as if you are putting political pressure on them and interfere in their business and their activity, which, according to them, is inadmissible and you must not do so in any way. You may also engage in a debate on the Constitution of this country and on the executive and legislative bodies of the government and on the legitimate representatives of the people in certain institutions and state bodies of BiH, but it is not good to say anything, if you think in that section, in that branch or branch in BiH something is wrong and something is wrong. When we talk about the media and the state of the media, media freedoms and potential threats to the same ones, it is necessary to remind the public in BiH that we should actually ask ourselves: things should be set up and watched from the other side. I want to say that both the media and journalists in BiH can be seen as medals on both sides. Someone may view them as SDP, that they should be protected, that they should not be told against them, that, possibly, if something unpleasant happens to someone or someone says something negative about journalists and their activities, they should be called immediately, preferably sanctioned, and then called upon by a state body such as the body of the legislative authority, such as the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to determine it immediately and to take a position on it. It is also clear to all of us that in every democratic society, in which we believe that the Bosnian Herzegovina society, it is important and important that all information and all that is placed in public opinion in the public of a society is important to be objective, realistic and impartial. Are all BiH media realistic, impartial and are they in a realistic and objective way reporting and informing the public in BiH about various issues, and most often about the political and economic and social situation in BiH? It is, in my opinion, very discussionable and can be widely considered and analysed. According to media behaviour, and I am also free to say to media terrors of individual media in relation to citizens and public opinion in BiH, I don't think that's what some media have and haven't even bothered to be. When I talk about the media, in order not to spread this story too much, I will only focus this time on electronic media as opposed to printed media because I think that electronic media is much faster and in a much more efficient way, and actually make it perceptible to the minds of citizens all the things they place and what they present in public to the people of BiH. On the side whether it's objective, whether it's unbiased, whether it's positive or not, but the electronic media are in that advantage over other media, because they have that possibility and because our people, by their nature and 94 mentality, will rather sit down to look at the diary at 7.30 than they will take time today or separate the money to buy a newspaper and sit down to read the paper to inform themselves. It's just like that in our society, not just ours. When it comes to electronic media, I think they have more and more responsibility and obligation to be objective and to be impartial, i.e. to report realistically to the public in BiH, because they are in charge, in fact, the subject of analysis and monitoring of their work by the Regulatory Agency for Communications, unlike the printed media that have advice for the press which is also a kind of regulatory body, but which does not have that authority and that power of the Communications Regulatory Agency. The proposals, submitted by Mr Bećirović, require that this parliament be determined in the sense that it should take some media and journalists at all in BiH to protect them, that a position should be taken to say nothing bad to them, that it should not be commented when, for example, one media from the Federation of BiH stands up so public that all the public suddenly raises negative tensions and a negative charge is made in the general public. Do I now ask all of us whether the electronic media should and can have that purpose, no matter how much their need to report, to create negative tensions in one society, to lead to a situation such that actually acting media-specific journalists are called, publicly calling for a link towards certain, most often, political figures in BiH. In this way, they are giving themselves a role, as I would say, of certain...residents who would most like to be on their show or, I don't know, in their reporting, you can put Goli Island in order to get some politicians or any other public employees, whether they are from the prosecution, from courts, from, I don't know, the Tax Administration, from anywhere, to put them immediately on that naked island and to judge them. Is this a mission and is it a task of the BiH media, and can this be taken under their free and impartial action? I don't think it has anything to do with their freedom of work and actions in BiH, because, unfortunately, such journalists, at their own discretion, accuse, blame and condemn certain people in BiH, in fact so many people call and so many people accuse them often and unargued and unfounded, without any evidence, that this number sometimes exceeds the number of minutes their emissions. Not to mention what the show is now, you're all implying what it's all about. But it's incomprehensible and incomprehensible that such a negative charge can have on its own society whose part you are in and where you work and act. I also believe that as the authority of this state, the legislative authorities, we expect that our work must certainly be public, must be transparent and must be available to the media. But it is also important that, on the other hand, all those reporting, here I took for example our parliament, must have a level of accuracy and balance. They must have a level of impartiality, no matter what the journalist thinks about some information, some MP, some minister, this one or that one, but he is obliged to balance and inform the public correctly. Unfortunately, by some media, this is not the case in BiH. Some journalists act in certain media like they're just listening to themselves. That what they imagine and what they think should be presented, how they constructed it in their head, that it must be so. It doesn't matter what they think, what the public thinks, what people think about what some other side says, doesn't drink water, it's just what they think, and that way 95 are treated and treated, and that way in an unworthy way, and, let me say, the way deception is placed by certain information and, what the people say, it just works that way. I said all of this with the intention that we all think together and that I know that we all know this information more and more, and we know how the media in our country works, and we know that, as I have already said, it has become almost and dangerous to dare say what you say against journalists and against the media, because it will be interpreted in various ways, but I have spoken in general this time, and if there are opportunities and needs, I will talk about individuals in particular, so by name and last name, and all the information that disqualifies non-performing people, in which way negative energy is created at all, and, let me say, disinforms the general public in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24542	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24543	That's why I think, here I'm going to end this one-sided approach and this kind of biased attitude towards what is proposed and being treated in these conclusions, we cannot support us from the SNSD Club because we are tired of some political party or individual from that party being able to get a certain media house or certain journalists to favour it in whatever way he wants, to give him their car, to give him their salary, their house, whatever he wants, but he can't ask this Parliament that if some media, some journalists extend a certain political party – and in what way, whether they are paid, whether they are sponsored, what happens, I don't get into it, although I know something about it – there's no way that the whole parliament can stand behind such conclusions and that it applies in that way. So I suggest that we reject these conclusions and that if we need to draw some conclusions then leave some time and agree together, but I'm not in favour of supporting these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24544	Momčilo Novaković. Let's get Lozančić ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24545	Mr. Chairman, I will certainly be much shorter in my debate and concentrate on the issue on the agenda. It is not today's agenda to discuss the media, but rather to consider attacks on journalists and a journalistic profession, with a particular reference to the threat of an independent media reporting in BiH. If we open up the topic about the media, then each of us is a little 10 minutes, probably, that's what the debate is about. That's why it would've been good if my colleague Milica had been more limited to this question. I mean, it's not here, at least today at the agenda point, about whether or not it's against the media, but whether it's good for the media to resent someone. So here's actually the accent on attacks on journalists, and that's why I'm only going to be limited to that part, that's a few sentences. 96 First of all, I would like to be able to sign some of the findings of the distinguished fellow Milica, which talk about the objectivity and need for the objectivity and stretching of certain parties in the media, especially in public services. I would really be happy to experience during this power to sign one of these findings. Of course, it's all about the position from which you're looking and, as one of my friends said, the seat determines the view. So it depends on where you sit around and act like one. As far as the proposal for a conclusion here from the SDP Assembly Club is concerned, I will, I am prepared to support these conclusions on condition that we change, and therefore I propose that the Proposer accept the amendments in Conclusion 4. I don't think it should be limited to the last attacks, because... this issue is currently not only backwards for a month or two but rather for a long time, and therefore I suggest that the fourth word 'last' is deleted and that it reads: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly estimates that the attacks on journalists', then deletes this 'treasures to journalists of the magazine 60 minutes, bombings against NTV Hayat', means this is a barrier to erase, but to 'attacks on journalists, attack on media freedoms and the rights of journalists to free work.' And now, of course, this last sentence remains. So, simply so that the question is not specifically related to some shows and some journalists, because it is something that is, unfortunately,... more often and refers to more journalists than just those mentioned here. After all, the media at the RS Public Service are under the siege of the opposition and the constant pressure of the opposition, you see, so here it would not be fair if they didn't find a place here, and they could be found if we deleted this, so if they are meant to be under terrible threats and pressure. As for the rest, I don't really see anything controversial about condemning all attacks on all journalists doing their duty fairly and objectively. This isn't the conclusion of bias. I understand, of course, and here it has been said several times to talk about objective journalism, so I mean objective, alternative journalism. So, journalism that has the courage sometimes to say the need to say what real public services or public service journalists, or public service editors, are not in a position to release in their programming schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24546	Bakir Izetbegović. Excuse me, Lozančić. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Replica, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24547	Well, I don't know why Mr. Novaković had the need to comment on the fact that I appealed and pleaded to the objectivity and impartiality of the media and journalists and where he found himself in the story, since he and the party where he had almost been on more media than some SNSD representatives in the media in RS. But if you listened carefully,...I said and focused on certain media in the Federation of BiH, the show that you just mentioned, that's not me, I'm grateful that you mentioned that show. So in this context, I have spoken 97 and I do not believe that you, as a politician, do not expect impartiality and do not expect objectivity and do not expect complete professionalism when it comes to the media in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24548	Here it is, Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24549	I didn't find my coworker, I found you there. When I was talking about the objectivity of the public service, then I found you, not myself. So I'm not there and you don't have to worry and I won't be there while you're the one controlling that public service.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24550	A little patience. Replica, Žiković. You see, Momo, how you get a line before Lozančić, twice the minimum.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24551	But only for the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24552	Thank you. The replica is that he stated in the previous discussion and now in this replica that anyone here is controlling any media. It is obvious that in BiH, everyone has their own media, and when you look at the agenda point, you should literally quote how it was written and how you see that there are signs of interference here in connection with continuous attacks and remind you of a time when in the RS it was in the power of the SDS that these same journalists had serious consequences for life and for other functions and that it was not at all to be discussed in this way. We are open and we are in favour of protecting media freedom, but it is not to say that it is happening now in BiH. Long before that, it was in a much worse form. We are also for media objectivity, and that's why we opened this point. We didn't think this problem should be approached on the one hand, and this, in my opinion, big problem on the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24553	It's a little Lozančić. Mirko Okolić, replica. There's no way a man's coming.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24554	Replica to Mr. Živković. I don't think anyone today has debated anything about this item of the agenda, nor caused a replica, the least SDS MPs they're talking about. So, Mr. Živković, did he make up or accidentally transfer the replica to the SDS and its rule, or did he want to do something different, I don't understand, so let me explain. If he really thought it was SDS, then we'll move on, probably with the replicas. If not, then we'll stop. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24555	Replica, wait a minute, Živković. Replica, look for a man's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24556	An explanation in one sentence. Mr. Novaković was a member of the SDS at the time, and now it is up to you to defend that SDS policy from that time on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24557	Mr. Lozančić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24558	I thank you, Mr. President, for having the opportunity to address me only after several interventions and after you have persistently given your advantage to the respected representative Novaković. Today I really want to join those who have experienced this point as it is called in the agenda of today's session and I don't think we are discussing at this session either the media or the editorial policy of any media, or the competence of any editor, journalist, or the courtesy of any journalist, etc. Today we are discussing a proposal for conclusions about, here, expressed feelings about the threat, I would say, fundamental rights and feelings of uncertainty of a part of the people who work in a very important activity called public information. As much as we disagree in the grades of such, here, those from Europe, from the world a little bit and a little bit, remind us that they know better than we do, and I'd like to really, mean un-loaded by this previous one, which we're not having a discussion about today as the most legislative body of this country, we really condemn all those behaviors that affect the freedom of the media. It's impossible for anyone here to be against these kind of conclusions that are against the intimidation of journalists. It's impossible for anyone to approve threats and physical attacks on journalists, no matter how verbally they say they express themselves. It's impossible to approve any behavior that means and a threat to the naked life of someone who's here to me or to one of us or to someone outside this hall doesn't like it. There's a lot of people reporting in ways I don't like. There are a lot of those who think that the media space in BiH is polluted, but we, who are the most often involved in these media, are also very often complained about. So, I join the effort to condemn all forms of intimidation, all forms of pressure, all forms of disabling free reporting, free media, and I believe that one such gesture of this home will contribute to all our media being more objective and indeed serve the purpose for which they exist, to ensure one correct, true and impartial reporting of the Bosnian Herzegovic public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24559	Bakir Izetbegović. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24560	So, the SDA will support these conclusions and I think that the attack on journalists is, therefore, the phenomenon of having one of its physionomys and that it cannot be ignored and that it is necessary to react. We suggest that instead of point 5 of the proposed conclusions, because its content is covered by point 2 to enter the conclusion of the following content: 'The House of Representatives warns that freedom of speech and freedom of opinion must not be misused and used for propaganda purposes, imposing their own political and ideological views. The media, especially electronic media, for which citizens have a legal obligation to pay a monthly subscription, are obliged to provide viewers and listeners with true and complete information, as well as an impartial and professional commentary. The dictionary and qualifications used shall not be contrary to the Code of Broadcasting of TV programs, business courtesy and good taste." So, I think when we talk about protecting journalists, we need to protect them from the bullyes, but Bog knows we, and from them. I had a recent conversation with a journalist from Free Dalmatia, I did an interview with her, and she tells me there's no such journalism as in BiH anywhere. That this is not the case anywhere, not in Serbia, not in Croatia, anywhere. It's just that instead of the truth, half-truths, untrues, instead of information, some kind of attitude. So it's not up to us to express our view of an event for our own money, but to impose their views, their ideological views, our views on the world. So they have protected parties and leaders of protected parties. They have some others to which, in the absence of real arguments, lies and lies are presented. So, I think we should protect both citizens and the profession of journalists and journalists themselves, because the reaction to that is this kind of... reaction to physical assault. No matter what the press wrote, I was very often, yesterday I was the victim of lies on federal television, no matter what they wrote, they don't deserve to be attacked physically. But we are obliged to recognize, I say, the physionomy of something, so we recognize that there are attacks on journalists, to protect them. We also recognize that it has gone beyond what certain media are doing. To protect the citizens from it. Well, people, we pay for those services, they're obliged to provide us with information and nothing more. So I suggest that these conclusions be adopted, here, along with this amendment, with this addition, the amendment proposed by the SDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24561	Replica, Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24562	The replica to Mr. Živković is very short. While the SDS was in power in RS, it was quite normal and popular for the media to be favored by the opposition, which is also normal and popular in the world, as journalists will not likely praise the position, but will attack the position to help the opposition and citizens to bring it down as soon as possible. And that was perfectly normal, I speak in most media. There's something else going on right now. Now we're in opposition, and SNSD is in position, something's happened 100 around these journalists, and there's no more popularity. Now they're prone to position, and they're not prone to the opposition, which is a little strange, mostly. So I didn't tell everyone, but mostly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24563	Denis Bećirović, discussion. May I have your attention, your patience? Denis Bećirović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24564	I would like to say, firstly, on behalf of the SDP Club, that there is really no sentence in these conclusions that, for any reason, could not be supported today in Parliament. What are we doing here? 1. To strongly condemn frequent attacks on journalists, 2. To ask the competent authorities to urgently conduct detailed investigations into this matter, 3. We are calling for resolution of the European Parliament, 4. We say that freedom of speech and freedom of opinion are fundamental principles of a democratic and open society and that any endangerment of these principles is a direct attack on freedom of speech, and 5. We are in charge of the Ministry of Security to provide us with finally one real piece of information within 15 days of the state of security of the country's media. And this parliament deserves to finally have such information after the bombings, after the death threats and other various threats to journalists in the country. But I want to say about this subject. We want to go to Europe. This is the strategic commitment of BiH. And on this issue today we will show whether we are going to Europe, by saying whether we care about European assessments, European conclusions, European recommendations, and here I have a European Parliament resolution. We didn't open this question, so we're clear on that. The issue was opened by the European Parliament and it pointed to the problem of media intimidation in BiH. We, according to that fact, which the European Parliament has marked, can be defined in one way or another. Everyone will vote, first of all, on their own conscience. I would like to remind you that on this issue, we are not the first level of authority to be manifested. Already a number of municipal councils in the country, as far as I know, and an entity parliament has already reached conclusions similar to these. I must say, I expected some responsible institutions to react much clearer and much more sharply before this Parliament. Unfortunately, they didn't react at all. We, and if we wanted to, can't hide some facts. And the facts say that in the capital, bombs fall on certain media. The facts are that we have a journalist who is threatened with death. Can we ever react in time? Should there be some kind of death case and then we should schedule an emergency session, warn us people from Europe, etc.? 101 I think that we do not always have to have negative grades from the European Parliament, that sometimes we can warn things and make a much better picture of BiH than it is from BiH today. With regard to the proposals on these conclusions, I must say that in Article 4, i.e. point 4 of these conclusions, where this 'last attacks' is said to erase 'last' and that we have listed in brackets '60 minutes' where, let's not lie, there are really death threats to these journalists, as well as these bombings on Hayat, we can throw it out of the bracket, let this score stand, because there are probably more media that could indicate that I am not now referring to alternative television in Banja Luka, BN TV and some, and many other media in the country. When it comes to the proposal, as I understand it, the entire SDA Club in point 5, that this point 5 is deleted or that it is possibly formulated in point 2, we do not accept on behalf of the promoter this addition to this conclusion, since this is the only concrete conclusion that requires the action of the competent authorities in this regard. I disagree with Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, who has now said there is no such media in the conversation with Free Dalmatia journalist. My opinion is, I have the right to my opinion, that there are no politicians like BiH anywhere, not the media.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24565	Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24566	I don't think it's a good discussion of Mr. Izetbegović if we want to send the right message, because in his essence, he's actually looking for reasons to justify these huge threats to BiH journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24567	Wait a minute, we're going in a row. Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24568	So it's much more precisely contained in attitude 2 where the authorities are asked to catch the attackers as soon as possible than the Minister of Security to give some kind of attitude, some kind of material to produce about the attack on journalists, some kind of elaborate. So, and it's contained in point 2 of what you're looking for. And secondly, these are your conclusions, your resolution for now. If you want it to be ours, then let us all support them, then let us bring in what we believe should be brought in. And I'm not covering anything up, Mr. Denise, or Comrade Denise, any of my hidden motives. I say clearly, the press has crossed every step of the way with their lies. Yesterday I was charged with ugly things on federal television, but I don't think anyone needs to physically attack them for it. 102 So, I think you also... are overly exposed to attacks, that it should also be condemned. Every phenomenon whose physiology we recognize, we need to criticise and seek cure for it. And don't you interpret what's in my head. I've got a pillow, so I can say it on my own.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24569	Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24570	I have to say this is Mr. Izetbegović's exposure. First of all, to respect the European Convention on Human Rights, every man and everything prescribed in that Convention and other acts of human rights are sacred to me. That's number one. And when it comes to this discussion of the last Mr. Izetbegović, I want to say that it should be principled. Now it's just a problem, is it, when someone says something about Izetbegović. So if you'll excuse me, please, if there's a single political party... that's more satanized than the SDP. We're even charged with a coup. So what? Is there a problem? So we have to have a principled relationship with all the issues, and point 5, here's what we've taken all the constructive proposals in these conclusions, and at point 5, we can't accept it, because that's the only concrete measure that's looking for an answer. And point two is asking the authorities, there's no deadline, and here's the thing, in my opinion, it's an emergency. And I think that today we need to react in a clear and unequivocal way, to show that there is security for the country's media, but to send a message to the Council of Europe. So to be precise until the end, if this doesn't go away, here's what I'm saying publicly, the text of the European Parliament resolution and these conclusions as a contribution to this resolution, I'm going to call on all my fellow Members to sign and deliver to the Council of Europe, first what they have warned us about and to deliver to them the listing and the results of how we treated this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24571	Let's move on. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24572	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will try briefly just to mention that I am sorry that one good idea, one proposal, relatively, really good conclusions, took this form even during the debate, and even from the promoter himself. I really have to react to my colleague Bećirović. First of all, you've been chasing the Council of Europe and the European Parliament a little bit. It is true that both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe mention the attacks on journalists, on profession, independence, etc., but it is also true that the Council of Europe resolutions are more binding than the European Parliament resolutions, at least by membership in the Council of Europe, if nothing else, at least by membership, although I am not talking about the specific weight of one and the other. 103 Second, I'll just remind you. The moment you referred to the proposal for a conclusion in the procedure they became the proposal for a conclusion on which this parliament would be declared. Therefore, each other's authorised promoter has the right to reach conclusions and also the right of each of us to be aware of all of this. So, the promoter can't accept it or not accept it. We'll all accept something here when we vote or we won't accept it. I mean, this is just correction one. I just want to mention that I am sorry that such a good suggestion of conclusions, of course perhaps with some corrections that, perhaps in my opinion, even get at a specific weight and the strength of the conclusions themselves, have taken these proportions, because most of the discussions were in terms of, I must say, perhaps especially the first, in the sense that they may have earned some journalists to be attacked. And I'm sorry that it is, I just want to mention that I'm sorry that one debate, or debate about such conclusions, has taken on these scales that she has taken and to the extent... [[Common discussion]] I'm just saying it's not my cell phone, here it is again, since you're looking at me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24574	I want to help you discuss things in peace, but it's obvious that somewhere where the microphone is turned on, that's where he reacts. Please, please, just a little attention, let her continue her colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24575	You see, here's what I'm going to do, of course we're going to support these conclusions and we're going to support every conclusion that condemns attacks on any profession. I have to say it, because we went a little bit into discussions of content and the idea itself. There is a need for us to especially support those professions that characterize independence and freedom of action and freedom of the media, freedom of words. Therefore, the expressions of unbelief, deception, bias that we have heard here today do not stand when it comes to the subject of this kind, because, I will only remind you that there are some institutions that maybe someone doesn't know about. We have for electronic media regulators whose reports and we adopt here, etc. There are mechanisms to, when it comes to electronic media, possibly biased reporting that is unworthy to be in some way sanctioned, but I'll also remind you that there is an adequate commission when it comes to printed media. But that's not the point. I just want to mention that I'm sorry that we left the fact that we're condemning an attack on any profession, any individual in this country. And I would especially like to remind you that it is not on this House to talk about editorial policies and the content of individual interpretations etc. There are mechanisms and addresses somewhere else, and at least on this parliament and by parliamentarians that, eventually, they refer to discussions of such a kind as if someone deserved any kind of attack. Thank you. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24576	Replica, Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24577	I don't want to do this, but, dear colleague Bećirović, I highly respect you as a brave man, but sometimes with your attitudes you are a funny man. How can you say... that you will deliver the text of the European Parliament's Resolution to the European Parliament with a list as we voted. Once again, this is a completely incomprehensible principle for me in the concept of democracy. Furthermore, as you advocate in this House, that you will accept someone's position, you will refuse someone, so he cannot be a part of it. And you know that here we have to have a majority to vote on. I want to tell you, don't change the thesis in terms of protecting human rights and freedom, I speak first of all to the press. I must say immediately that, unfortunately, BiH has very poor journalism. If there's a barrier to it, so I'm opposed to any threats, any journalists in this country and anywhere in the world, and, if the barrier is what it is, I need to say right away that we should strongly oppose it. But there's not one more thing to forget. There should be a responsibility in this country for the publicly spoken but also a public written word. If we do, therefore, one consensus in that, as a conscience of this society must be journalists, as someone who points out what publicly elected officials are doing in this country, that it should be better for the citizens of this country, then we cannot be satisfied with the proposal of a list of officials. I am convinced that there is often a strong abuse of the position of public officials, unfortunately, in relation to the media. But unfortunately, I want to realize that we don't have any analytical or investigative journalism and that we mostly use semi-information as part of an approach, so using, even, often using public service for those purposes, and then creating a completely one confusing situation. So, I'm against any attack on the press. That's why I'm that they have absolute protection in society. But I'm against journalism being in the position of anyone in the sense of depraving any person, especially by calling criminals, irresponsible, it's no excuse for any attack, immediately, because I would never attack journalists for such lies, but it doesn't benefit journalists or this society. And I am convinced that if disputes were conducted before the European Court of Human Rights, journalists would get such disputes, but would also get public figures that are often exposed to unargumented attacks that create negative public opinion in this country. We have such journalism... So I invite you to work together,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24578	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24579	I will end the chair, I call on you to draw conclusions that will create independent journalism in which the absolute European Convention on Human Rights and all the laws in BiH will be respected, but also to protect the public, i.e. to prevent the abuse of publicly spoken and written words. 105 That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24580	Thank you. Replica response, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24581	Every MP has a right, including his colleague Lazar Prodanović, to tell him what he looks like. Of course, I'm right about that, too. And you, my colleague, have to say, you don't look comical, you look tragic to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24582	Please treat your colleagues with respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24583	Certainly, with the same text, even a little bit lighter than he came to me, so you can intervene in principle. So now I'd like to ask my SNSD colleague what his boss looks like when he tells a reporter he's gonna knock him out. What does his boss look like when he tells the chairman of the Council of Ministers he's a fool? What does his boss look like when he tells the whole parliament what he says, etc.? It would be good, consistent, so he can honestly tell us what his boss looks like in those moments!? And to talk about it, I'm done with this, and I won't even answer for the discussion anymore, so make any conclusions you want, you have a majority, you have the right to do that, but talk here in this House and by any BiH politician about some bad journalism, and that's what politicians say, that's like that saying to a folk mockery is complaining about the wrong tree.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24584	Here, now you'll hear what it looks like. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24585	I didn't tell you you were comical, your attitudes are funny, your attitudes are so funny. I'm sorry if you've taken this so offensively. But you can't be delivering a list of someone you often do in this Parliamentary Assembly by putting out some facts. But right now, when it comes to calling, I need to tell you right now that I don't have an institution as boss as you do. And to talk about what my boss says somewhere, you should ask him. But when you hear from me that I've ever sided with something that offends someone or someone else's personality, then you can say that. But you can't set a model that you think is perfect and only right. So I want to, I respect your conclusions, they're mostly acceptable, but you have to participate in the debate to come to a common conclusion. So, please, when you hear 106 that I'm asking someone, then ask me in this House, I bring, here's the truth, in this House I bring attitudes and opinions to my head, and you have to, don't think it's just bad, and often when someone's reaction is in a certain sense, it's not a justification, it should be caused by some opposite reaction or some kind of provocation that's otherwise unique in our communication. I want us to talk normally, and I think without any pressure on how it's going to be, I want us to come to conclusions that aren't just yours or the SDPs, but this Parliament, they can't go any other way. You have five votes like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24586	Thank you. It's a replica, Reverend Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24587	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, although I intended not to put oil on fire today on a few hot topics, but it is obviously impossible, especially when it comes to Mr Bećirović who is leaving, but well. And I don't know what it means to him – if it were there, I would put these assessments together for him if it were tragic what he's doing in this Parliament – his concern for journalists. All the time, he won't tell us what reporters. I would like to hear from Denis Bećirović what he means by journalism in BiH. Does he think they're unique? Do you think there's talk of a unique profession, which clearly says what it wants, as people would say, which side it's going to go to? He's not talking about it. Don't talk about what journalists think, think about each other, and we don't, and I'd like an opportunity here in this House or somewhere else to tell us journalists what they think of each other in BiH. Is it possible that nothing works in BiH, just works on journalistic freedoms or journalistic professions and that it is ideal. Has the division of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society found its good environment among journalists, who discusses the same event in the middle of Sarajevo... the same two journalists, one is talking about humanitarian action, the debt is talking about the biggest crime. Same people, same eyes, same events, same everything we talk about. And it's quite clear, here's what I'm saying and I'm against, that we understand each other, any attacks, any dark work, threats and all, but I guess you have to understand if... one journalist, editor or whatever you want on 20 shows you call someone a jerk, why don't you give him back. What's to stop him from quietly, slowly returning that he's both an idiot and an asshole? How are you gonna stop a man? I'm not into assault, I'm not for anything. And how are you gonna stop someone? He's got a conviction, got him in court, and this one's still abusing the public media. Now we expect him to respect journalistic rights and freedom, to sit in front of a screen in a chair and watch in the evening as this one calls him an idiot and an asshole. So where did we come from? Is that what we're defending? If we defend that, it has nothing to do with journalism. I don't have a problem with journalists that kind of stuff you're talking about, about assaults, but a profession can say anything. He knows okolić the papers in RS, that famous finger and the rest that went on for 10 years, it had something to do with the freedom of journalism like last year's snow. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24588	Time, Drago!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24589	Here, I'll finish. We should talk about it on that side, too. If Mr. Denis is referring to his group of journalists, I agree that you don't have to protect all journalists, I'm allowing you to protect those you're interested in. And that's okay. _________(?) We want everything. Please, so I told you, it's okay. And another thing, about my leader. So imagine what your leader is like when he was the only one who beat my leader. Then you know the relationship.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24591	Time, Drago! Nice to meet you. Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24592	You know who the leader is and who the boss is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24593	Branko Dokić, discussion. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that no one in this House, not only in this House, can stand behind possible attacks, threats to anyone, especially...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24595	I'd like some attention from the Mixed Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24596	to independent journalism. And now, in order not to further explain, in this context, I fully support that part of the discussion that has spoken to the esteemed chairman, co-chair, however you wish, Niko Lozančić. This is a serious issue, and when it comes to proposals for conclusions, it could also be acceptable and voted, so here's the 1st point, and the 2nd point, and the 3rd point, and the 4th point, with the minimum correction of what counterpart Novaković was saying, and the 5th point is indeed, I must agree with MP Izetbegović, that it is unnecessary, in addition to the 2nd point, because the 2nd point is wider than this one. SIPA should deal with all cases in, I'd say, the same way and there's no need to single out any cases on this matter. 108 But I would also say, and that is why I answered the discussion, that within these conclusions... must be found at least through one point of conclusion the relationship between the media and individuals from the media, which is why Mr Izetbegović tried to propose, because I think this is incomplete and there is no one else to be excluded here. Here we should not only call public service for which citizens pay, as he said subscription, but also all others, and alternative media, and printed media especially, because there is some kind of control over electronic media. I mean, I say what kind of a thing, I say it all, and there's no control over the printed media. And if we didn't call this, then we could say, well, you know, like we're told by politicians, and politicians are the most on the attack, and you know why. I want to remind you that more Confucius, 2,500 years ago, when asked what was most important for a country, said the military, food and trust in politicians. And then they asked him, here, if he had to give up something, something to give up first, he said the army, then food. So how they feed, people will die. Yeah, he's gonna die, but he's gonna make it. The people who lose their trust in their politicians are lost people. Here someone from BiH and outside BiH is very skilled at using the media to discredit politicians, to make this people a lost people. We're told to politicians, and not only politicians but other politicians here, well, you have ways of getting attacked, so these are attacks that cause both mental pain and material damage, etc. - you have the courts to solve. We could say today and the press have the same path to solve it. You know what the road is. I've only ever sued two newspapers in my life. I got both of them. One of them hasn't finished the procedure yet. And you know how long it takes, from 2003 to today-- it's not over yet. What I was going to say. I've broken my personal example, maybe that's not good. My proposal that following the completion of the discussion on this item of the agenda for the next session, we propose conclusions which would, behold, respect a lot of these conclusions here, suggestions from discussions, but also in any case one point in this sense, as the SDA suggested, where we would call on the media and individuals of the media for the spoken word, truth, because they were all obliged, alternative, whether commercial, whether public, to truly inform, and not to slander and thus inflict great damage.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24597	Did anyone answer for a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24598	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24599	Jerko Ivanković. Here, now you're in second place, now you're in second place.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24600	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I will give an example of a story that can in a picturesque way show the media's attitude towards us or us to the media. There were two brothers at school and one was a great student, and the other had all the units. And the end of the year came and one passed with a great one, and the other failed for a year. And now who's going to go tell their parents it's been a year. Now my brother goes by with a great one and says, "You know what, Dad, my brother's been a waste of a year." And he said unto him, Where wilt thou sayest that he is fallen a year, six 109 months of banning going out into the city, where thou shalt say unto thy brother that he is fallen a year. And He punished him who had spoken, and he who had failed for a year was nothing to him. We often use practice to criticize and punish those who say something happened, and those who did it pass... And it's about journalists and those who have an obligation to say what happened and that's why they're being punished, and those who really caused the problem don't get sanctioned for it. I personally don't think I have the right to judge journalists and the media whether they've said something incorrect to anyone, whether they've spoken a slander or not. I don't think anyone here has a right to do that, because there's a bill of slander, there's a court to determine.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24601	Let's hear from each other, please, your colleague is talking to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24602	...and, if anyone did it, he'll be punished, whether it was a medium, whether it was a journalist. And I think that journalists to politicians are very mild, given all the indicators in our country, when we see deficits, unemployment, economic development, and now I don't repeat what we've often said here and when we look at the media, journalists look too mildly at it. Unless politicians are satisfied with the Defamation Act, they have the opportunity to change that. So, here in the Parliamentary Assembly, the ruling six has a majority, it can pass a new law of slander tomorrow if the existing laws are not functional and anyone who defams someone to sanction this slander adequately, so that no one else will be slandered. So I don't think we can blame the press in any way. If we are not satisfied with the Defamation Act, the proposal tomorrow on the agenda, the session, adopted new and according to the law, journalists will have to implement the truthfulness of the information. And I don't think it's acceptable that we, on a flat-rate basis, evaluate any of the journalists, because journalists should always have much more information than we do when they bring some information to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24603	Jozo Križanović, prepare Martin Raguž psychologically.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24604	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, since it's been told a lot, I'd really like to be very brief and as clear as possible. So, on the agenda there is 'A consideration of the proposal for a conclusion regarding the continuing attacks on journalists...' So today we opened an unnecessaryly very broad discussion on freedom of the media, on the position of the media etc. This is about... a proposal for concrete conclusions and therefore a conclusion because we have one phenomenon, a social phenomenon, a dangerous phenomenon, an attack on journalists, a continuous attack on journalists, death threats. And in connection with 110 these are concrete conclusions, my people, to be seen as Parliament as we see this situation, again in the interest of the protection and freedom of the media and freedom of the journalists themselves. So here it was possible to intervene with a concrete amendment to the proposal for conclusions, to correct a certain conclusion, without now creating a general debate. Maybe we should open a discussion once about where the borders were crossed, whether the RAC is working, this communications control agency, if it's doing a good job. She's our agency, she's our institution, we can legitimately open the question. So here I suggest that we do not waste any further time to more concretely consider the proposed conclusions, if there are any other conclusions or to change these, add new ones etc. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24605	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I want to make it clear on behalf of the HDZ in 1990 that we are ready to support the concept of these conclusions because it is on the agenda. So, on the agenda, what Mr Križanović has already said is condemning continued attacks on journalists and a journalistic profession, with a special reference to the threat of independent media reporting in BiH. Independent media is the foundation of every democratic society. And today, I am only in doubt whether these things that some colleagues have opened, and about how this role of the media is achieved, which is also the legitimate right of Parliament, are at all related to this item of the agenda or in particular. And I'm going to make a statement right now. I am for special consideration and I think we need more time and arguments, because the way the media plays a role in this important process for this country and for all its citizens may be in the same level as the role of politicians. And here, I just don't agree with Mr. Bećirović that from the category of politicians we take full responsibility for ourselves in relation to the creation of that picture of all of us, I don't think that there's any less responsibility for the media. But I would not, and therefore, preferring that today I stick to what is on the agenda, which is concern about the climate of intimidation of the media, it is clearly stated in the European Parliament resolution and it is asked of us to recognise the significant role of independent media and NGOs, also in this resolution, which is also very important. I am today to support the redefined conclusions, but I support the essence of the conclusions, so without singleing out any concrete media, because I believe that the media, as a profession and as a pillar of democracy, are on the line, in general. And secondly, I think that point 5 should be deleted, because some of the colleagues have already said that it is incorporated in point 2 much wider and more precisely. And thirdly, to discuss other issues that have arisen, we leave for another time, and to say here once that we are able to send a message that as the highest legislative authority we are prepared to protect the freedom of the media and their independent role and condemn any attack. I think it's big and here's what I think the proposaler's initiative is going that way. And all of this that opened up after 111, in a way, shows how far away we are from knowing priorities and criteria and standards for which things need this condition. Therefore, support for these amended conclusions, modified, sophisticated conclusions in the way I said and the proposal to leave the debate on the role of the media, their professional skills and responsibilities, which should also be legitimately opened, for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24607	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 22.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24608	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24609	I'm sorry, Zlatko, you should have checked in. Here you go. Before that, we have a reported replica of Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24610	Mr. Chairman! Every politician's goal is to fight for independent media. But if we don't lie, I keep pointing out that, as politicians are divided, as the nations are divided, the media is divided. I believe it or not every day, regardless of the press-clipping we get, I buy eight, nine newspapers. And in one newspaper I read, he says, "The biggest problem is the Nightingale, lobbying for some sugar company." I've never heard of it, and I've never been threatened by security. I'm called by others who import, and they say, "What are you lobbying for this company, man?" My compromised security that someone wrote that I was lobbying, and I have no idea, I've never heard of a company.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24611	Slavko, darkness!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24612	That's the darkness.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24613	Sugar?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24614	It's the subject of me being threatened by such writing. And it's always like this in some newspaper when it comes to me. So, what does this finger mean? That I need to be pierced through tiles or Parliament, depends on how I understand it. So, I'm fighting for media independence, for the objectivity of 112 media, but we're really never gonna make it. If anyone says on the TV criminal association without a conviction, the charges, I don't know what, so you know how the public gets up. I don't fight here for me, let them write what they want against me. Do we have hearing what people say by watching TVs all over the place, reading various newspapers? So, I condemn the attacks on journalists, condemn the attacks of journalists on honest people, condemn the unargumented attacks of journalists against politicians without charges, convictions and all, I charge everything against them. But I repeat, I pointed out here that I received thirty threats a day from different people, thanks to the newspaper that they wrote. Well, that's not true, people, like this one on that sugar that made my life miserable. Instead of sweetening me up a little bit with coffee or coffee, whatever you want, it's a bitter life for me. My life's bitter with it, because it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24615	Slavko, darkness... darkness!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24616	So please, Mr. Belkić, someone wrote there, and I know which newspaper, I lobby for someone. I've never heard of it, and I'll never lobby. I even said that everyone who calls me to lobby will turn them over directly to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24617	Well, we've got a vote on tariffs, so we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24618	It's a bit of a tariff for me, Mr. Belkić, I'm threatened, what a tariff, if I'm going to live to see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24619	Wait a minute, Mr. Bešlagić, wait a minute. So, in the time before the conclusion, we have a reported discussion of Mr. Lagumdžija, who missed this button, but no problem. Slavko Jovičić took advantage of his and I beg the others, because we have concluded the debate. _________(?) /No microphone turned on Well, we've closed the debate. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24621	No microphone 113 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24622	So we include yours, I'm not opening any further process, I'm including your intervention. Here you go, I've got the point, and Slavko's checked in before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24623	Well, if Slavko heard from you before, Mr. Chairman, I don't want him to, no, no, there's no reason. A colleague, Bešlagić, answered after a replica of him, could not have known that after Slavko was concluded, whatever Slavko said. But no problem, that's not what we're thinking, okay. I didn't hear you, Azra. [[Common discussion]] Is that what I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24625	Don't get settled. Go ahead. No more replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24626	I'm pulling the line if no one can replicate to you. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24627	Zlatkova's the last one, we've been waiting for him to come.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24628	Eh, I haven't been to this kind of temptation in a long time. I'm kidding. Me first,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24630	First, at the end of my presentation, I will suggest that you allow yourself to conclude by chairing that the replicas are allowed, because I would not want my freedom to limit the freedom of anyone else, or even those who...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24631	Not even a new session to continue, Mr. Zlatko, with the same agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24632	I see you missed me. I'm sitting there on my computer listening to what's going on here. You're gossiping about me being gone. I mean, it's my place here, Mr. Belkić, but 114 thanks to the technologies that you've introduced, to which I understand little, I can be present for the debate and to the extent that you're going to be more flexible, is it, that you're looking at me less. I want to cut the story short. Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to say something. I would just like that before this proposal to conclude and determine according to the conclusions proposed here as a complement to our conclusions, respecting everything that counterpart Bećirović has already said and who has accepted practically that these examples instead of expanding them with new examples, here is the office, and we will not have these examples in brackets and we will not limit ourselves to..., but to attacks at all, and that is fine. But offered by a proposal for a conclusion that suggests, apparently with the right, that point 5 is seemingly excessive when point 2 already exists, we think point 5 is the key point of this, because today this should not be an invitation to a declaration of something, but an invitation to action on something. And point 5 is actually the only active point that allows this to not die in Parliament today, however we conclude. If we only accepted the proposal for conclusions from 1 to 4, then we would amnesty ourselves to worry about this further. And point 5 is a capital point for us, because it actually allows everything that's heard here today and all the other examples that possibly exist, along with these exact examples that are listed here in the brackets, to get them involved. That is why it is very important for us to vote on the whole of our conclusions, respecting what counterpart Bećirović said. Besides, I'm joining those, and I'm especially glad they're colleagues, is it, from ruling parties like Mr. Raguž and others, that it's good to go back to the subject? We had ideas, when we were making these conclusions, we had about eight, nine conclusions, as I recall, among other things, we felt that the issue of the Public Service should be re-reacted here, the question of not naming the Director of the RAC and the attacks on the independence of the Regulatory Agency. We also thought it would be a good time to talk about the financial situation in the Public Service and the non-organization of this corporation. We thought it was also a good opportunity to say something about it here. We also thought it would be good to talk about, to put it this way, what social and other economic conditions some of today's state and public media are doing. But we have chosen to narrow it down only to a subject that speaks most literally of a physical threat, a physical threat to some journalists. The more reason why we opted for it is, to remind myself, what we have been insisting on for years (sometimes some of us, sometimes some of us, depending on the situation), are against the law of confiscation and we have always insisted on reminding ourselves about the fact that the most successful example of Ireland, which we have often mentioned, was actually initiated when a journalist was killed after the threats that are happening here. So that we wouldn't be the ones who, if any unpleasant event happened, were someone who didn't look at her and let it happen, that's why we focused only on threats to them. And otherwise, as is already known here and said, we of the SDP have had experience with these codes of conduct. And we've been trying to, we fully understand those... That you have media, by any chance, right? Had some Sarajevo media Radovan attacked 20% like me, he would have surrendered long ago, he wouldn't have had to end up in The Hague after so many years. But that's how it doesn't occur to me that in similar situations, I'm now opening up those other topics that talk about a single information that doesn't fit what's a civilized norm that we want to pursue. But in order to get media representatives to look into their eyes tomorrow and tell them, here, we have some objections, some suggestions, something we don't like. However, we are obliged, as the largest legislative body, to show full responsibility to protect them regardless. I repeat, no matter how they behave. We're the 115s who have to make the first move, not media representatives, even if we need to correct ourselves. We cannot condition our correction by correcting them, even if it is necessary and to the extent necessary. And in the end, we have just opened this freedom to the Council of Ministers at point 5, that the Council of Ministers in this information points to other aspects of this problem, so that we can talk about them too. I'm sorry I may have taken a little more time than you expected, but you certainly didn't expect me to, so whatever I said, it's probably too much for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24633	I assure you that we were expecting you, and we knew that you would come. But I also assure you that the conceiver is 90% of what you've already said. You may not have followed, but well, not bad twice, not bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24634	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24635	Not bad twice, that's right, okay. So, here's the deal. Here comes Mr. Dokić. Mr. Bešlagić, here you go, replica. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24636	I'll be very brief. We here seem to be having a whole discussion of this proposal that we politicians are threatened too, and since my esteemed colleague was talking about a Chinese politician who said what he said, I experienced another story, which is from Tunja Filipović, a professor. And he says, "I'm going to Sarajevo and I'm meeting a lady and she's asking if you're Mr Filipović. And I say yes, joyous all, and she spits at me. And now we all expect what will happen, what will be the reaction, and he says, "If I'm a politician, I've wiped out and moved on." Gentlemen, we are politicians, and we must be subject to such attacks in fact. If it's about the rights and obligations of journalists, let's open up another resolution and bring it as such, and today let's bring what it is, with what it is, the amendment phase, acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24637	Replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24638	Well, Mr. Chairman, I still had to answer now given this discussion by my colleague Lagumdžija, who claims that point 5 is more important than point 2. I can understand him 116, but I can tell you that all these four points with the corrections at point 4. I can accept and I will vote for them. It doesn't have to be extended this issue of media relations, and as they report, we can raise another question, but if there is a point 5 left, I won't be able to vote for the conclusions because the competences of the SIPA exceed what we want. We here, I hope, think of all the media in BiH and entity and state and regional etc. The SIPA has no jurisdiction over all this. The second point really covers everything, it includes the SIPA, among other things, in the areas in which it is in charge. So I wanted to be clear here until the end. So with point 5 as it will not be able to get my support of conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24639	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't know who the replica was, Mr. Dokić, if it was a replica at all. Is it up to you? Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Come on? Here you go, Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24641	So he goes down the street and he crawls his tongue and insults people, he calls them all the names, and 99 people don't react to it, and the 100th pulls out a knife and stabs him. Are those two separate phenomena? Should we just talk about that lunatic who pulled the knife out and hit him or should we talk about not having to spit, insult, lick their tongues or just what he pulled out of the knife? It's two related phenomena. We don't defend us politicians from journalists, let them write about us whatever they want, normal, true. I'm talking about not having to write the lie, that you don't need to impose your views etc., you don't need a dictionary that doesn't allow the code to be used. So these are two related phenomena or one phenomenon. We don't justify the people who attacked the press.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24642	Replica, Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24643	I didn't hear you let him talk. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24644	I'll give it to everyone now, and as long as you want to keep going, it's very interesting, I can tell you. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24645	Well, it's very interesting, the man mentioned the knife, I mean, I didn't get it very well. But, Mr. Dokić, we don't deny point two from other points, but we just consider it, and I said it very clearly, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24646	I'm sorry, is that Dokić or Belkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24647	I'll do it, Dokić. So point 5, which Mr. Dokić has pleaded not to suit him, and these other points for us don't make sense if only they will be adopted, because then we end up with this, we don't have the obligation to, to say the least, to continue, or to get an answer to an action that should follow from the institutions under point 2. That's one thing. And the other thing, because of what Mr. Izetbegović said, with all due respect, I don't know if I understood it very well, but to be clear again. Not mentioning who stabbed him with a knife, here's the problem with the fact that point 4 is talking about the threat to the press to rip their head off, their head to rip off.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24648	Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24649	And in point 5, proposed by the SDA Club, I've now figured out which of whom, it's here that people should be polite. So, all of this is offered by the fact that people, who need to be the foundation of democracy in this society, who belong to one profession, are physically threatened with their heads being ripped off and bombs being placed on them. And it can't, even assuming this is appropriate to put journalistic behavior in this same resolution, it can't be on the same level. _________(?) It's not the same subject. Not only is it not the same subject, but it doesn't have the same weight to charge Lagumdžija with a coup like I'm threatening to rip his head off. He's right before me even though he doesn't have an accusation based on the truth. But let the issue of decapitating, and here the journalists are literally bombed in front of the newsroom and threatened to take their heads off, and you know why. Because someone in the interview said that these journalists here, as they say, have a dictionary of qualifications that is contrary to the broadcasting code. And now you're saying, you accuse the press of not working in accordance with the code, and then some of your... says I'm gonna rip your head off. Now, we are to unilaterally condemn rhetoric, which is only a step towards what this rhetoric is, which ends with 118 brutal physical bargaining with journalists. And here to be perfect, we therefore insist on our five conclusions, respecting what counterpart Bećirović has accepted to throw out concrete examples,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24651	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24652	to make those five conclusions known in the package. You don't have to be in, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24653	Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24654	I think it would be a good idea if my colleague Lagumdžija hadn't explained anything, because now he's brought me into a dilemma that I said I would support all five, with a change in that fourth conclusion. We obviously have different looks motives. I thought we had the same motive: to protect every journalist in this country, not just two journalists. So some are threatened to rip off their heads, others to break their legs, thirds, and I don't know what kind of threats this country has made. That's why I don't think it's good that we're ultimate in this sense. I don't see, even, be careful myself, so I don't see even the reason, here, to erase that 5, but I don't see any reason and not add a sixth conclusion that speaks of some responsibility and journalists themselves, you understand. Not in the sense of responsibility for calling something true, but in terms of responsibility for calling something that is not true. So, that's why it would be good if the SDP Club, perhaps not today, someone seemed to suggest to me, until the next time it looks at all these discussions, I think Mr. Raguž suggested it, looks at all these discussions and says, "Okay, here's our five conclusions with this correction, add the sixth conclusion of the SDA Club, and from the other discussions we draw a conclusion, we give it up for adoption, we suggest that it actually adopt. It seems more logical to me than insisting on these five only if we want to achieve some goal today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24655	Martin Raguž, business intervention. Martine, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24656	Mr. Novaković, there may be a misunderstanding. So, we accept, the Proposer accepts that point 4 deletes the "last" to apply to everything, to delete all of this in brackets. So that's deleted. And then we're all going to make a statement. And we don't argue to make a statement to each other about any further conclusion, but for us, so we're the only one we insist on, we appreciate the suggestions that it's not one, two, or three media. So to erase it, so it's about the last attacks, at point four, to erase what's in the bracket and then to make these five things so... we make them known as one. And then, we agree to declare each other's additional conclusion. 119 So, if I was clear, since I realized a little bit that I was different, and I'm sorry if I was inaccurate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24657	Just tell me where the injured Rules of Procedure was, I mean that you intervened. Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24658	You see, Mr. President, some are patient and do not use business interventions for replicas, but here I think. I want to say something about Mr. Lagumdžija's previous debate. Not in a way to dispute, I have supported and understood very positively this desire for Parliament to determine all the attacks, but if we are talking about scaring the media and creating conditions for independent and professional journalism, then taking down the head is just a radical form of threats. And there are a number of other sophisticated and developed networks of institutions I don't want to talk about here, but we all recognize them, the way in which the media is influenced and prevented. And that's what we need to talk about, too, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here, that's why I called in my word. And secondly, don't take this conclusion exclusively for yourself and for your party, it's wrong. I make my own conclusions and other parties as a contribution that we all contribute to making this phenomenon the most serious from this home, and so I have experienced the initiative of the gentleman. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, okay. But if you don't accept this 5, it's worth nothing. I think that from these four conclusions one solid basis on your initiative can be accepted and said we have succeeded all together in reaching a democratic position in this body, according to what is objectively evil, cancer, cancer. I know, I'll tell you a series of examples where people, if they write one free word, cancel sponsorship contracts and bring to the brink of the existence of journalists and entire editorials and lists. And for me, it's also perhaps an even bigger attack than, even though this is a directly endangered human... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24661	Now we're going to a new series of discussions. Slavko Matić, mistake. Jozo Križanović, is it a mistake? 120
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24662	Well, actually, Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24663	Actually, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24664	No, it's not a new discussion. Indeed, I have nothing new to say, but I wanted to say that it would not be good if, after this much debate and concrete conclusions, we were looking for a delay and a demand for new time for a new formulation of some new conclusions. I think it was quite enough time and opportunity and even until adoption, is it, until the vote to formulate here some conclusion that anyone likes. Of course, it is a perfectly legitimate right for Parliament to define such conclusions. So I'm saying, here, we'd be in favour of today, after spending all this time of debate, concrete conclusions, today to determine ourselves on this particular proposal, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24665	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on this agenda point, of course, with the possibility that anyone who has a conclusion, a proposal, an intervention, should deliver it before the vote. We're going to item 22, final item of the agenda. I suggest we hold the debate on all the points practically. So it's about "Ad." 22. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on a military grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, (b) Bilateral Agreement in the field of education between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro, (c) Agreement on preferential trade between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Iran, (d) Memorandum of Understanding on the future of the health network in Southeast Europe in the framework of the regional co-operation process in Southeast Europe. The Foreign Affairs Commission at yesterday's session discussed these agreements. She gave positive opinions. You've got your opinions. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports, I'm closing the hearing. And, this way, we practically crossed all the agenda points. We have to make a deal when we vote. So it's 18.10. We've had enough for 20 minutes? Please, in 121 these 20 minutes anyone who intends to intervene some conclusion etc. Have him deliver it to the Secretary of the House. So we're here at 6:30. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24671	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24672	What, Mr. Bećirović? Mr. Bećirović, let me run the session. So let's get to the bottom of this. We have the first proposal for a conclusion by Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: 128 "It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to refer to the parliamentary procedure a bill marking July 11th as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of genocide in Srebrenica throughout BiH." Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (26 Federation, two RS). We don't have the consent. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (26 Federation, two RS), 11 "against". I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not passed. We're going to the proposal for a conclusion by Denis Bećirović. There are three conclusions. '1st. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives supports the text of the Srebrenica Resolution, adopted by the European Parliament at its session on 14 and 15 January 2009. 'years.' Would you like to make a statement at the conclusion or should I read all three?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24673	It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24674	At your service, Mr. Bećirović, just say the word. Please prepare to vote on the conclusion of Mr. Denis Bećirović. Vote now. 28 votes "yes" (26 Federation, two RS). There's no consent. Let's go out in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 27 total (25 Federation, two RS), 11 "against". I find that no conclusion of number one has been accepted, so to speak, Mr Bećirović. Please be patient, let's make a statement on conclusion number two, so to speak, Denis Bećirović, which reads: '2. The House of Representatives calls, first and foremost, on the Western Balkan countries to support the text of the Srebrenica Resolution as an expression of the readiness to build lasting peace and stability as soon as possible." Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 129 Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, we vote. Jozo, we vote. Mr. Lagumdžija, we vote. Well, well done, I thought you missed it. 28 votes "yes" (26 Federation, two from RS). We don't have the consent. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 26 votes "yes" (25 Federation, one RS), 11 "against". And this conclusion didn't get the necessary majority and it didn't go away. And we have conclusion number three, also Denis Bećirović, which reads: '3. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly concludes that the text of the Resolution on Srebrenica will be delivered within 30 days to all elected officials of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities at the state, entity, cantonal and municipal level." Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 28 votes "yes" (26 Federation, two RS). There's no consent. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote, we vote in the second round. Vote now! 27 votes "yes" (25 Federation, two RS), 11 "against" from the RS. I also find conclusion number three. Denis Bećirović did not get the necessary majority. That means it wasn't adopted. Let's go to point 20. Information on floods
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24675	We'll skip for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24676	This is about the flood. The proposer proposed that it be postponed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24677	Yes, that's right, we've decided. Proposed and delayed. We're going to 21. Discussing the Opinion of Conclusions on continued attacks on journalists and a journalistic profession, with particular reference to the threat of an independent media report in BiH -- a proposer: Denis Bećirović. So, let's vote first on the conclusions of Proposer Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24678	Is it about individual conclusions, is it individual? 130
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24679	Please, wait a minute, we're going in a row. I know everything, Šefik, what we've got, we'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24680	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24681	That's what you want us to vote for first.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24682	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24683	Wait a minute. So you insist that this is not a special conclusion, but that it is an amendment to the conclusions. Great, great. So, Mr. Novaković, you, as far as I'm concerned, you've agreed to something or you haven't. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24684	Did you accept his?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24685	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24686	And accepted. That means we have changed the text of conclusions. That means that you, Mr. Novaković, are then withdrawing your proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24687	It's no use.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24688	Okay, okay. Then we only have an amandman to the proposal for the conclusions of Beqirovic by SDA and Mr Jerko Ivanković, I don't know if you noticed, and at the last minute he also suggested a special conclusion, which is not related to these conclusions, and we will especially plead on it. Please prepare yourselves. 131 [[Common discussion]] So, here's the deal. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Proposer Denis Bećirović. We have an intervention, i.e. the Amendment at point 5, as I understand it, points 4 of Bećirović's conclusion by Novaković, which the promoter accepts. And we have a proposal for a change or this amendment... from the SDA relating to point 5. And you have that text in front of you. If you want, I'll read it to you. So, we plead... but from Mr. Novaković we do not need to plead, accepted. You did not accept this correction to the SDA and we will make a statement about it, and then we will enter into a statement on the text of the conclusions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24692	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24694	This is the first time in this House that we treat conclusions as laws, where we treat new conclusions as amendments to conclusions, please. Don't say that. You, gentlemen of the SDA, can suggest completely, you can take our four conclusions and suggest instead of our 5th to go to 5th, but you must make a statement about our five conclusions that we have proposed, respecting, not individually, we have sought in the package. Wait a minute, you can refuse but you, therefore, Mr. Belkić, which is a business procedure. We accepted in our fourth point of change and suggestions that were.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24695	And you don't accept these. 132
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24696	Wait a minute. So, we treat it so adjustedly as a whole, and we ask that we make that clear. The SDA can say afterwards -- we have a new proposal for conclusions -- that's this four of you with the modified 5, but that's something else entirely, and that's yours. You can't vote first... our five with your amendment, because you treat conclusions as a law which simply...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24697	Wait a minute, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here, we've held consultations, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24698	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24699	You're right. So, we've been consulting and you're right. So we're voting on the conclusions proposed by... [[Common discussion]] One at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24701	In the package, Denis said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24702	Please, we'll make a statement. Wait a minute, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm trying to do this correctly. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24703	Excuse me, Mr. Belkić. We're the promoters. You may have a third set of conclusions, those five one at a time, but you may choose to plead our five as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24704	So, you agree differently than saying about your five as a whole and give me the text now the conclusions that occurred after the intervention. We'll take five minutes off. Please pause for five minutes. I want the text of the conclusions after Novaković's intervention, to be precise until the end. Just intervention, write it down for me to read in the record. 133 [[PAUZA]] Please hurry up. Please take your seats. Please, Mr. Dokić, Nanić, Lijanović, Milorad, please take your seats. So we're going back to point 21. Consideration of the proposal for a conclusion (proposed by Denis Bećirović) regarding continued attacks on journalists and a journalist's profession, with particular reference to the threat of independent media reporting in BiH. The final text of the proposal for a conclusion agreed by the promoter and the correcter: '1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives strongly condemns frequent attacks on journalists in BiH as well as any attack on the press profession and preventing public information. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is demanding that the competent authorities conduct detailed investigations and take legal measures to sanction all perpetrators of the attack on journalists in BiH. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on all BiH authorities to take seriously the European Parliament resolution of 23.10.2008 expressing concerns about the climate of media intimidation and asking political leaders to recognise the significant role played by independent media and NGOs. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives estimates that attacks on journalists are an attack on media freedoms and the right of journalists to free work. Freedom of speech and freedom of opinion are the fundamental principles of every open and democratic society and any endangerment of these rights is a direct attack on freedom of speech. 5. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the Ministry of Security at the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver information on the state of security of journalists in BiH to the House of Representatives no later than 15 days." I hope it's all clear now. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! 33 votes "yes" (25 Federation, eight RS). I understand that the conclusions were proposed by Denis Bećirović. In the context of the debate on this item of the agenda, we also have the following proposals for conclusions. The SDA Club, on the agenda item Considering the Opinions on continued attacks on journalists, etc., proposes the conclusion 'The House of Representatives warns that freedom of speech and freedom of opinion should not be misused and used for propaganda purposes and imposing their own political and ideological views. The media, especially electronic media, for which citizens have a legal obligation to pay a monthly subscription, are obliged to provide viewers and listeners with true and complete information as an impartial and professional comment. The dictionary and qualifications used shall not be contrary to the Code of Broadcasting of TV programmes, basic courtesy and good taste." 134 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 30 votes "for" (18 Federation, 12 RS). I also find that we have adopted this conclusion proposed by the SDA. And we have the conclusion proposed by Jerko Ivanković. If you don't, I'll read it. 'The BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to implement the laws on defamation in BiH and, if,' finds that they are not adequate, it proposes a new law on defamation in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.' gospodin Ivanković, this can only be an initiative to make a law of slander. So there are provisions of the BiH Penal Code on Defamation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24706	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24707	He can't break the defamation law if he's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24708	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-04-0.u24709	So why should we deal with the team? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! He's got it all, adopted this conclusion. So, something that does not exist in BiH at BiH level will be analysed. ... I'm giving you a little patience. Please, Mr. Ivanković has the right to propose. The man suggested, I warned, the man insisted, we pleaded, the MPs adopted. [[Common discussion]] Please let me finish. Now it's everyone's assessment whether it's a mess or not. Please, point 22. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement. Shall we vote in the package, so I can read them in the record...? Do you agree? Thank you. So: (a) Agreement on a military grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, (b) Bilateral Agreement in the field of education between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Price Gore, (c) Agreement on preferential trade between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Iran, 135 d) Memorandum of Understanding on the future of the health network in Southeast Europe in the framework of the regional co-operation process in Southeast Europe. Please prepare to vote. We vote in the package. Vote now! 36 votes "yes" (23 Federation, 13 RS), without a vote "against". I find that we have given consent to ratify all these agreements that I have listed. Two or three sentences just to remind you. The next session, so 48th, is 18th this month. I ask once again that the Presidents of the Commission do not waste time and that they schedule their meetings on a timely basis so that we have reports for everything that we have taken off this session because of the non-maintainment of the session. I thank you for your cooperation and your happy journey to those who travel. The seat is closed at 19.25 hours.
