ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24711	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, there are 22 of us. I'm opening the 48th session of the House of Representatives. So, I say hello again. We have scheduled the session at 9:00 for the reason we have limited time due to tomorrow's seminar that will be held here and please make us as expedient as possible so that we can finish by 5:00 today. The absence from the session was justified by Jovan Todorović and Mehmed Suljkanović for health reasons. A number of MPs announced that they would be late, and here some have arrived, so that they can conclude that we have a quorum and that we can work and decide fully. So, in accordance with the practice we have introduced, I want to inform you about the materials, or your initiatives that we have received so far. So, regarding the liberalisation of the visa regime at the request of our commission, we today have also on the agenda this material related to meeting these conditions. In addition, the Interresor Working Group for visa liberalisation negotiations submitted a report on the work of the Interresor Working Group, a report on the implementation of the visa liberalisation dialogue with the European Commission with a review of the current state of compliance with the visa liberalisation requirements of the Roadmap. I hope you got these extra materials, too. You have four contributions to this report. It is an extensive material, so we have also informed the clubs and the Joint Commission on European Integration that these materials can be looked at, or made an insight into, the Office, and can be delivered in electronic form as required. In accordance with your initiatives and requirements, we have received materials from the Council of Ministers called 'The first quarterly review of the implementation of activities from the Action Plan for the Implementation of Priorities of the European Partnership of BiH document' and 'Development of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Interim Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement' and 'A report on the state of implementation of the Interim Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement'. So this is also about the material we asked the Council of Ministers for the Joint Commission for European Integration initiative. So this material will, after the procedure of the commission phase, also be here as the subject of our debate. 2 When it comes to the Council of Ministers' report on the work, the Council of Ministers, although late, carried out its commitment and delivered the Work Report, but our commission did not complete the work. All four commissions discussed this report, gave opinions. I once again warn the presidents of the committee on their obligation to consider and give an opinion on this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, so that we can include it at the first next session of the House of Representatives. And, in the end, something about the agenda. So the points 9 and 10 have been removed. I'm talking about those earlier calls you were getting. It is about amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH. The reason is that the Joint Commission for Defence and Security has submitted a request to the College for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the report. It's about the first request, and the College has granted it. For the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour and Employment Act, the Constitutional Legal Commission has again requested an extension of the deadline, and for this reason we have downloaded the 5th point of the draft agenda, and, in accordance with Article 111(6), we have included a statement by the House on a request for an extension of the deadline, which is now the 9th point of the agenda. It's a business thing. Three points have been included in the agenda that have met the business conditions for consideration. It is "The Martin Raguž and Vink Zorić's initiative to form a working group for the creation of the text of the new Constitution of BiH", "The Plan for Action to meet the European Commission's recommendations on the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the visa regime for citizens of BiH", and "The appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals from the Order of Administrative Law Experts". He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. And the last point is expanded. We have set up three other agreements that came after the call was sent and the committee responsible for foreign affairs has placed its session on the agenda, which was held yesterday, and I hope you get opinions on the benches. And we have a change of order. By mistake, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH was put among other readings and it is the first reading of this bill. Please appreciate this, of course, with an apology. On the benches, hopefully, you got the final look of the agenda the way I tried to explain it here. So I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm finding that... 48th session of the House of Representatives has the following
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24716	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, I have a comment on these two answers I have received. The first is a commentary on the question I received from the 46th session of this house, and this is about the UN-Sancan gasification project, and I would like to commend the efforts made by BH-Gas on the realization of this project. That's the answer I got, and I'm happy with it. 5 But I also asked the Federal Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining the same question. I didn't get that answer. I'm staying with that question and I'm asking the department for an answer. The second comment is on... the answer to the question I raised at... session, and it is about establishing an operational body that will have the authority to approve state aid programmes or support from BiH level as one of the conditions for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I have been given the answer here and I want to conclude one condition that this ministry has not been prepared after the formation of a working group two and a half years since the establishment of a task force, which was tasked with preparing a bill, and this law is not yet prepared, and this working group in this or in which it is constantly repeating its mandate. I find this inadmissible, and I appreciate that this is a direct threat to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to our obligations arising from this Treaty, with the fact that this response can indeed show that there is one blocking of the adoption of this law by individual members in that working group, and on the Council of Ministers, it is up to the Council of Ministers to remove these things. I hope that, as it is here and mentioned, in a recent period, it does not say which, once again, will call the task force and offer... a proposal for this text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24717	Lazar Prodanović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24718	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, all present. I am pleased with the answer delivered by the Council of Ministers to my parliamentary question, and it was about the status of the Department of Law of the University of Sarajevo – Department of Tuzla. But I'm not happy with what's been done in the context of what's been presented in these answers from Tuzla Canton, the respective ministries and Canton of Sarajevo and the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo. So I insist that this agreement, signed in September 2006 by the University of Tuzla, the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo and the Government of Tuzla Canton, is fully respected. The agreement was scheduled to take place on 2007 from school 2006 to 2008. Sarajevo Law School in Tuzla will not enroll students. So there's no excuse to continue (for two school years already) enrolling in that department and any interpretation of this higher education institution and the Canton Sarajevo Science Ministry, no justification. There is no need for two higher education institutions belonging to public institutions, in this case the University of Tuzla and the University of Sarajevo, to have two identical universities in the same city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24719	Denis Bećirović, commentary. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24720	At the 44th session, I asked the Honorable Chairman, the question: "Is it true that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Nikola Špirić, bought an expensive car in the time of the difficult economic crisis that has affected more BiH and how accurate the price of that car is?" This question has been answered and I am dissatisfied with this answer. Among other things, the answer states that the said car, which is in response, did not buy the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but was carried out by the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers for the needs of the chairman. I don't think he should answer to MPs like this. This is truly tragic and comical what answers we get here at Parliament. However, my question specifically asked is this answer: "There have been three suppliers in the tender, and the most favourable bidder who has offered the lowest price has been selected." I repeat, my question was 'what exactly is the price of that car', and here in response, again, here comes the answer of the 'lowest price' type. So, I'm renewing the question and I'm asking to be publicly told how much that car cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24721	Šefik Džaferović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24722	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Council of Ministers: "When will the draft law on bond relations and the bill on property-legal relations finally be referred to in the parliamentary procedure?" The answer to the question I have received and I can say that I am satisfied with the answer to my asked question, with what I would like to say only briefly that I really expect, in the first half of this year, the law on bond relations to come into parliamentary procedure, and that by the end of March, his version will be completed with a comment and given in the public consultation phase, as stated here in response to the question. And secondly, that I am saddened by the fact that I learned from the answer that neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Council of Ministers have a plan in their work programme to draft a law on property-legal relations. I invite them to put it into their work plan immediately. Here is Justice Minister Mr. Čolak, a law that is necessary for BiH, and here I propose to him, immediately, if this home should stand behind it, to move forward with the activities of making a law on BiH's property-legal relations. Without the law, as well as the bonding law, there is no single Bosnian-Herzegovina market, no free circulation of goods, people and capital. That Minister Čolak as a minister of justice, an excellent lawyer, certainly knows and I pray that he enters these activities immediately. That's it, thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24723	I don't have any more comments to make. I am concluding my comments and opening new parliamentary questions. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24724	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I briefly point to the BiH presidency: "Why is he late for the appointment of six ambassadors?" It is about positions that, according to the agreement, belong to persons from the Bosniak people, when it is known that the DKP network is not working very well, and I think these personnel, especially in countries like Serbia, China, Pakistan and other countries, would be welcome. So I want to know why there is no appointment of persons, and six ambassadors from the Bosniak people?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24725	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24726	I thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the question today, i.e. to ask the entity ministry, more specifically the Ministry of Transport and the links of the RS. 'By means of information, the public is partly familiar with the project of building a network of highways and fast roads in RS. Given that the unsko-sanski-Sanski canton and Lebanon are mostly bordered with the Republic of Croatia and the territory of the RS, and that through the territory of the RS is the closest communication towards Sarajevo, I ask the rest of the ministry to provide me with information on plans to build highways linking the Unsko-San canton with Sarajevo and other parts of BiH, and especially that part of the road that Bosnia and Herzegovina Novi or Novi City connects with Banja Luka to Doboj continues to be linked to the Corridor Vc, as well as the construction plan and road connection between Split in the Republic of Croatia and Banja Luka via the Lithuanian Canton." This is information that the media has been able to hear about the way the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plans to do a project of highways and fast roads, and given that they are significantly touching, bordering the territory of UN-Sancanton and RS, I want to initiate and connect the activities that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing with the governments of the Un-San-San-Canton and Lebanon canton, in order to do better and faster to implement these projects.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24727	Mirko Okolić 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24728	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, International Organisations, NGOs, information funds and dear guests, more than three months ago, in particular 9. 12. In 2008, Doboj Municipality sent an act to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. to the State Property Commission, proposing to exempt state property from a temporary ban. The reason for the same is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Doboj Municipality signed a Programme of Housing Care for the families of the dead fighters and wartime military disabled from the first to the fourth category of Doboj Municipality. With the signed programme of Doboj Municipality, it took over the obligation to secure the location in the urban part of the city and to approve the construction. In the process of issuing the building approval, it turns out that of the total area of land on which construction is planned is one small part of only 130 m2 of the area owned by the Slovenian Railways... All right. Therefore, it is necessary that this commission, as competent, exempt the mentioned 130 m2 of land of state property from a temporary ban and thus allow the issue of a building permit. The issue of construction permits and the start of works is already very late, and the population that should finally get a roof over its head is still delayed by obstruction. How to justify the response of interested parties that, despite the urgency and legally envisaged deadlines which have long expired, there is still no answer from the Commission. How do I understand their questions, I quote: 'Is it because housing is precisely for this population by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Doboj Municipality, right in Doboj Municipality, and would obstruction occur if the same thing were done in one of the municipalities of the Federation of BiH?' I know and understand that the Commission has its hands full these days on the basis of a Prussian task, but that is no reason for life in other segments to stop. A team before the Commission can resolve the same in a few minutes at its regular sessions under point. My question to the Council of Ministers of BiH: 'When the Commission is thinking the same thing, the Commission is going to consider and give an answer, as well as a request for the Commission to do the same as soon as possible, which is the essence. I am looking for the answer in writing and after the Commission's decision is made on the urgency of matters (although it is not in the Rules of Procedure, although it is not mandatory and common) I am asking that, if possible, I be informed by phone or email. In addition, I submit a letter to the Doboj Municipality and a copy of the Commission’s competence under which it is obliged to grant this exemption.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24729	Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24730	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests, I have two brief questions. The first is addressed to the Council of Ministers, or to the Ministry of Security: 9 'I request that I be provided with a systematisation of posts in the DGS or the Border Police with numerical performance indicators, with a special reference to the national structure of employees, and in particular management posts, including advisers.' The second is to the Director of the Border Police or DGS: 'The Deputy Director Alagić has been suspended for 15 months, and no one has even called him for any conversation, and according to the current regulations, the suspension can last up to 12 months. The question is, what is the Director of the Border Police intending to do about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24731	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24732	Thank you. I will ask a question again for the Council of Ministers, and I think my colleague Jovičić will, too. 'When the Council of Ministers, on the basis of Parliament's conclusion and the conclusion of the College, will prepare and send to the House of Representatives a point which we have initiated to be a plenary session, we later agreed to be a session of this House: recession, the global economic crisis, the impact on the BiH economy and measures to overcome the crisis. Reason: You know that we sent it, Parliament adopted the conclusion, the College gave it to the Council of Ministers, I don't think there's time to wait. It is time for urgent action, citizens and the public, believe it, I know that the Council of Ministers held a session, that it has adopted some measures and that the Central Bank has also brought two, but I don't think that's enough. There's a drastic situation in the field. Believe me, the crisis has entered every inch of BiH's space and is being implemented daily through the fall of both domestic and foreign investments, the drop in exports, the decline in production, the drop in remittances. I work at the post office. I know that the drastic downturn is from abroad. We know what the revenues are from abroad every year. Unemployment, poverty, surplus. Incomes fall at all levels, VAT, budgets are lower everywhere. Unfortunately, poverty, misery, inflation, unemployment, debt, deficit, cost of life, and even an increased number of suicides in BiH due to the economic crisis have been increased. I think they need urgent measures from BiH authorities, and it is still unresponsive. It should be the session to be called by the Council of Ministers and the Fiscal Council and the entity prime minister, that was the conclusion. It's risky to wait, I'm afraid the fire doesn't strike, it needs to be extinguished in time. We MPs bear responsibility. Our citizens are asking and I believe that executives should prepare this point as soon as possible, wait a few months, and the citizens ask what you're doing up there, we get worse and worse every day and there's a company shutting down. That's it, thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24733	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24734	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, and guests, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues, well, Mr Bahtić has already explained the essence of what I was looking for five months ago, but in this country you can look for anything in the interest of what we say will not happen to people and citizens. So today I'm just gonna say it again,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24736	I will continue, well, I will repeat that the President of the United States called Congress eight days after the inauguration and said that America is in serious recession, in serious trouble. Unfortunately, we don't have Obama, we don't have anyone to call Parliament in this way, as we ask, but we have bigger problems than America. So do you gentlemen really read all of us together, do we read the papers? There's gonna be no pensions, there's gonna be pensions!? What's going on? Shall we? Here, five months as I submitted the initiative, no one at all. I'm not scaring anyone. I'm a guest on BH TV tonight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24737	I'd ask you to turn over there a little bit to look, not me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24738	I turn around all the time, and I meet them all the time. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, I have no authority to order you to come and prepare this, here I have no, but I beg you as friends I respect. Tonight I am a guest of "These Days" on BH TV and you know what their theme is: again, pay MPs, and for the sixth time I have participated in this topic. So the focus is just what we do as MPs. With this topic and the initiative that I have submitted - and I thank my colleague Bahtić for finding a common compromise that this goes together because it doesn't matter who submitted - I add another: the security of the country. So two main things, most important for each country, are how the people will survive and whether the people will be safe. I never mention this first one, because it is the most important and it has no slow road to Europe, Euro-Atlantic integration. But first, people, I repeat, survive. So I asked you as friends if anyone has a cell phone other than me, if this poor girl's calling to ask what's going to happen to us. If we're gonna wait here, and it's over and that folks' saying house is on fire, Grandma's coughing. The house is burned down, the house is gone, the house is burned down, and the grandmother is combed. What about Grandma? Someone must put her back and load her up again. Laugh all you want, I speak the language that the people understand me. I know how to learn a phrase here and a little bit better, so you know, if we're looking through the prism of the region, this recession in context, what did I just say? You know, I don't want to make a joke out of Parliament. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24739	Give me that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24740	Well, I don't want to make a joke, but please, I don't know any more ways to get our institutions to get rid of this. I am going to a session of Parliament, 50 people: "Will there be war, slavuj, war?" I return from Parliament, "Have you made any decision, will we be better, will we survive?" What else am I supposed to answer? That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24741	I hope when it comes to war, you tell them it won't be. I failed to say, in the introduction, that on several occasions we intervened, sought, worked out that the Council of Ministers finally provided the basis for this kind of debate. So one type of material, one type of analysis of the situation and a proposal for measures. We in the press hear exactly that there's something going on here, but we still don't have that material and I'm really asking, the chairman's gone, but here's the deputies, to get this whole thing serious. As far as this other material is concerned, he's also on schedule. The initiative exists to be considered here, however, we still haven't received any relevant material from the competent commission that would be the basis for the debate. We will re-invest, Mr. Jovičić, additional efforts, ask that the two very important things be discussed here as soon as possible. Next question: Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24742	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one brief question from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Defence, which reads: 'What are the problems relating to reporting and meeting BiH's international obligations within the UN and OSCE and I would like to ask that I be provided with an accent in response to the co-ordination related to this reporting by these two resolution ministries.' And secondly, a very short question from the Ministry of Civil Affairs: 'What was the legal basis for a legislative framework for establishing a regional centre for co-operation on mental health from the BiH authorities, since the same declaration did not pass the certification process.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24743	Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24744	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished guests, on the recent statement by my distinguished colleague, Adem Huskić, given in a Sarajevo daily of 12, which Serbian MPs voted against the adoption of the Arms Act in order to allow the arming of paramilitary formations, I feel the need to ask the Ministry of Security, the competent agencies and the entity interior ministry: 'Do they have knowledge or information about the existence of paramilitary formations in the territory of BiH and RS, and if these formations really exist which actions are taken to combat them?' After receiving a reply from the competent institutions, I reserve the right to comment on a statement by an esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24745	It's Lazar.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24746	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, my question has been addressed to the BiH State Service Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24747	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24748	I want to be delivered: 'How many employees in the past year were received through the competitions of the Agency for State Service and in which institutions and how many of them had previously worked at the jobs for which the competition was later called?' In fact, there is often some information in the public, or perhaps it is not true, that a large number of places in which the competition is formally called are previously even a few years or a few months old, employees who are on a designated basis, are then translated through a formal competition, so that those who compete are often deceived by this way and procedures. To remove this dilemma, I would ask: How many of the total number received last year through the State Service Agency's competitions were found in these institutions in those workplaces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24749	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24750	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions. The first question is the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What is the number and what is the issue of the personal and other structure of the lawsuits brought against BiH before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and how long is the processing of these lawsuits on average?' 13 I ask this question for reasons why different data are presented in public, even from the official representatives of BiH institutions, and which is not subject to serious data analysis that BiH belongs to five countries in the world whose citizens and legal persons mostly sue their country for the protection of human rights. The second question is the minister of justice in the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What is the number and what is the financial value of BiH's powerful judgments on the burden of the Budget institutions of BiH at all levels, whose execution has been delayed in accordance with the established entity laws on the postponement of enforcement of powerful judgments and unsustainable legal innovation if their execution threatens the functioning of the institutions of government? How many human rights and legal systems have been compromised by this delay in the execution of powerful judgments in BiH, and to what extent is the danger of the abuse of such legal provisions by BiH authorities?" I am aware that the Federation of BiH has passed a Law delaying the execution of BiH's powerful judgments with a famous legal structure: if their execution threatens the functioning of the institutions of government, and I assume that a similar law has been passed in the RS. Personally, I see these laws as unconstitutional and devastating by human rights and the BiH legal system. Such legal improvisations, not only violate rights and legal norms, but provide an opportunity for abuses and a new vision of the borrowing of the BiH state that is already out of control. I know with confidence that only on the burden of the Budget of the Unsaniscan Canton is the financial weight of the powerful verdicts with a delayed fact of over 20 million KM plus the corresponding interest that is twice the bank's. Taking into account the further trend in the lawsuit, all levels of government in BiH, on whose burdens the execution of judgments and the corresponding interest on that basis, are estimated to be already the weight of these rulings several hundred million KM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24751	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24752	Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I have two questions. They are directed to the Council of Ministers. The first of them is: 'What does the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries do for the acquisition and completion of all the necessary preparatory activities at the completion of the project documentation and the resolution of property-legislative work on Corridor Vc, the provision of highway construction and the operational availability of promised funds of cca 400m euros from the EBRD and other sources?' And second question: "Is the Council of Ministers a elaborate and accepted model of financing highway construction on Corridor Vc?" I will briefly explain: So, building a highway on Corridor Vc is of great importance for BiH, and especially its importance is even greater if we have in mind the fact of this moment, i.e. this economic situation, 14 or general recession, and I think this is the right and appropriate time to ensure that what has been promised or in some way already is ensured by the means to build this highway to be put into operation as soon as possible and that the Council of Ministers, unless it has worked out and accepted the model of funding for the rest or most of the highway building funds on this corridor, to do so as soon as possible. That, of course, he will carry out all the necessary consultations, preparations, etc. and inform the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, because I believe that what has been started and done is good. However, I also think that the dynamics that do all this together are not satisfactory and I don't really understand what's going on this long and why the works aren't being intensified. I think this is a subject that is very interesting and, behold, it is now additional and current and I think it would be good for the BiH Parliament to get acquainted with all these activities and also to hear what the plans are and when we can expect to really step up these works, because it is known that not only our builders but otherwise many businesses in our country have a lack of jobs. This would, I'm sure, work apart from building operations and much wider, and that would still be one significant mitigation of these consequences of this current situation, which is now current, but I'm afraid it won't be so short-lived. And, certainly, this would be a great contribution to make, however, one injection through investment and employment of domestic capacities.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24753	Adem Huskić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24754	Thank you. I have a very short question for the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers: 'Mr. Chairman, since you have stated that there are parallelisms in BiH institutions, please answer me which institutions there are parallelisms, who is behind these parallelisms, how are they manifested and what have you done with the goal of eliminating all parallelisms in BiH?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24755	Azra Hadžiahemtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24756	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, here, allow me to have no parliamentary question but I have a parliamentary initiative, briefly to launch an initiative to sign two acts: the signing of the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention against Corruption (it is about the Council of Europe document) and the signing of the OECD Convention on Economic Co-operation and Development on the fight against bribery of foreign public officials. Reason: The signing of the two international documents, among other things, is listed as a condition for visa liberalisation and stems from the European Commission's recommendations on 15 Roadmaps for the liberalisation of the BiH visa regime. Since Parliament can play a role in this domain,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24757	A little quiet, please, give the press a heads-up. AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24758	: Given that Parliament has a role in the field of international conventions or an initiative or ratification of that final act, here I initiate the signing of these two documents which are a condition for further proceedings, among other things, whether or not the liberalisation of the visa regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24759	And I still have Mr. Lozančić on board, and this is how we end the term for today's parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24760	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I will ask a brief question to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH: 'When will I get answers to questions raised at the 45th and 47th sessions of this House? And one more short question. How have they not yet answered the question of how and on the basis of which regulations and criteria have from all the main positions in the courts and prosecutors of BiH and entities excluded people of Croatian nationality, I am now asking the question: 'What is the national structure of all the courts and prosecutors in BiH, including the basic, or municipal, cantonal, or county, entity, Court and Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and is this structure in accordance with the BiH Constitution?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24761	Here, so I repeat, we are done time for parliamentary questions. Let's move on. Point 3. Ad. 3. Declaration on the BiH Aviation Law Proposal (second reading) Let me remind you. At the last session, we delayed the plea. So the debate is over, no debate. This is what I say reminders for. So we'll vote when we vote on all the other points of the agenda. 16 Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Declaration on Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in the air navigation of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24764	You didn't say anything wrong. Since we talked about the reasons last time, I would only have one proposal for a conclusion that would have been stated before the vote on these two laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24765	Tell me what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24766	'The House of Representatives requires urgent access to the implementation of the conclusions of the BiH Council of Ministers from the 60th session, held 25. Nine. In 2008, which was adopted under the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of services in air traffic between BiH and the end of the legislative procedure in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." I would only ask that before the vote we make a statement on this conclusion. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24767	So, in the time of the vote, that before we vote, the House will decide when we arrive on time. Here, Mr. Kalabić has announced that he will have one proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24768	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24769	The debate is over, I agree, Mr. Novaković, but here's what I thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24770	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24771	Well, here's what we'll discuss. The debate is over, right. Okay, I'm asking for patience. Here, we'll see how things continue to develop. I'm just reminding you when 17 is about point 3 and 4 as we have concluded, and I don't think it's a shame that I gave Mr. Kalabić the word. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions (Second Reading) A little reminder. It's about the law in the second reading. It was adopted at the 45th session. We got the report on March 16th. The Constitutional Commission, you could see from the report, adopted 10 amendments, and they, of course, became an integral part of the law. In the plenary phase, two MPs, so Milica Marković and Vinko Zorić, defend two amendments to this law. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Here you go. I have a report: Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24773	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, since the Constitutional Commission in resolving the issue of a large number of amendments that were very different, so to speak, has appointed one group in which Mr. Prodanović, Mr. Velimir Jukić and I, and I have led that group, and we have carried out these adjustments, I think it is necessary to give some clarifications about what was happening before and before these renewed amendments. Therefore, the intention of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions was to improve and shorten, in a certain way, the procedure on employment and the selection of staff and improve and advance the selection of human resources, i.e. human resources planning, labour assessments and the management of personnel in the state service and, of course, compliance with other laws adopted in BiH in the meantime. These were all the reasons that were seen as defects in all these areas during the application of the Law, smaller or larger, and as a need to remove these shortcomings, it was the result of this law. When it comes to the approach of this working group, we have sought to take care of the objectives for which this law was adopted, so this promotion of employment, monitoring of impact, moving by institution, to preserve what this bill has achieved, but at the same time to preserve, as much as possible, the standards of transparency in employment in the state service in BiH and to agree, of course, as high as possible with existing laws. That's why we agreed, about, as a working group, I have to say that we have agreed as a working group of these 10 amendments. We did not consider a number of amendments for the simple reason that they were submitted to the members of the Law which the Amendment Law does not treat. Well, in accordance with the rules that we have on making legislative documents, 18 simply, and in accordance with earlier practice, these amendments have not been considered. The other amendments which therefore treated those members, which are allowed to treat the amendments, were treated equally. Some of them, as you can see, have accepted some of them. In short, we accepted amandman I. and amandman III.. and amandman v. relating to the alignment of this law with the Law on Gender Equality. These are the amendments submitted by Mr Zorić. These three amendments improve the text in a way that is consistent with the existing law. amandman II. – so I am talking about the amendments as to how they are sorted here in this report – amandman II.. which we adopted as a working group refers to Article 3 because Article 3 has changed the relationship in the employment committees, the relationship in favour of the institution in relation to the State Service Agency. We have suggested that this relationship be returned and that the existing relationship be maintained in favour of the State Service Agency. In Article 13, Article 13, we've changed. Article 13 provides for the introduction and recruitment of trainees at a certain time which has been largely defined and described in a way that it is possible for a trainee without a competition, after the traineeship has expired, to be employed in the state service for which we have estimated that it is not in accordance with the standards achieved, so Article 13 has been amended in a way that employment has been regulated at a certain time. In doing so, as a group, together with the representatives of the Ministry of State, we have formulated this amendment, which actually enables employment for a certain period of time where it really is necessary, requires that an opinion be sought from the Agency for the State Service, that the Agency assesses whether there is really no possibility within the institution of covering business. And in this way, we appreciate that a certain order and a certain recording of the situation in the area of employment will start to a greater degree of quality. Then, in Article 14, we proposed to delete the position which proposed that an employee civil servant on probation could not apply to other competitions that arise in the meantime, estimating that this would nevertheless be some kind of violation of fundamental rights, so that it could be controversial. And these are the basic characteristics of this amendment. There has been another amendment concerning this gender of positive areas and the Law on Gender Equality, which proposed that gender-based harassment be included in the member who treats violations of official duties and discrimination, and violence based on gender or sexual orientation, gender-based harassment, with the provision of fines for the act. We have assessed that it would not be good for disciplinary infringements, so the violation of duty, the violation of official duty, the acts of violation of duty and those characteristics to be mixed with acts that are in other laws or will be in other laws that are incriminating as criminal acts, that it would not be good to change, to interfere because of possible problems in court practice. Finally, just to conclude, I think we have succeeded from what the amendments have been offered to compromise in favour of the quality of this law. And we have concluded and we have proposed to the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is what the Constitutional Commission has accepted and that a number of amendments submitted and for these procedural reasons could not be considered to indicate, that there is a need for this process to be further improved and that there is a need for some of these amendments to be followed in this further harmonisation and raising the quality of the law. 19 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24774	Mr. Genjac, here I understand that you have practically explained the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. There's one conclusion here on the Constitutional Legal Commission about the Justice Department, so I'd like to ask the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who signed up to explain whether he expects the House of Representatives to provide this enforcement obligation or whether this commission will do so directly with the Ministry of Justice. But here, let's go back... All right, let's go back, here's the applicant for the Milica Marković amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24775	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I have submitted amendments to the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions on the basis of Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Given that my amendments have been rejected, I have submitted the same amendments for today's plenary session, in accordance with Article 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this House. In principle, the aim and intention of the Council of Ministers was to increase the quality of this law, which determines the positions and functions of civil servants who perform important and high duties in our country, that was also my principle and criteria, and therefore I have tabled two amendments to the members already treated by this Act on Amendments and Supplements, which is Article 3 which speaks of the exemption and in application, that is my first amendment. The second amendment relating to Article 15 relating to the assessment of the work of civil servants. I believe you all have these amendments ahead of you, but for the sake of the public, I will only say what it is. ... with the first amendment, I asked that Article 3 in the exception of the application, in the position (2), state officials who are excluded from the application of the law: 'Home Secretary, Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH', so behind that sentence to add: 'General Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, Secretary-General of the Presidency, Secretary-General of Ministers, Assistant Ministers and Directors. The selection procedure, mandate and other necessary details relating to labour engagement and status of the right and obligations of the person referred to in point (2) shall be laid down in other acts." And the second amendment refers to the labour assessment and... in the position (8) I asked that it be changed and that it reads: 'If during the total duration of the employment twice the labour rating is negative, the civil servant and the managing civil servant shall be relieved of his duties.' Since we have already heard that the Constitutional Commission in considering the amendments was also intended and had as a criterion to increase the efficiency, productivity, professionality and finally transparency in the work of these civil servants, here we go in order. When it comes to 20 on the effectiveness of civil servants, which I have asked for to be introduced into this law, so their position and appointment and choice, I believe it is in the practice so far, it is a well-known thing, that in certain ministries the arrival of new ministers or whatever in the Presidency, in other state institutions of BiH, it is known that the arrival of a new minister finds a certain set of ministerial assistants, finds the secretaries who are simply convinced of their position in the place where they are presently and that simply the minister who has come, who has left, their position is unquestionable, they know it and they act so. This sometimes results in an unprofessional relationship in their work and a relationship that does not correspond to one state ministry, and in this way the public impression is that people who are once placed on such high state functions can stay there until retirement, no matter how they do their job, whether the minister was satisfied, whether Parliament is satisfied or not. So these are all things they don't have for them, they don't think about it at all, and I think that we as a BiH Parliament should also take care of it. When it comes to transparency, I also believe that this group of civil servants would be required and desirable to have extreme transparency in their appointment, which means that they are brought through the competition institute and that, when they are set up, they were simply appointed through the competition to monitor their work and the results of their work. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. The very fact that in BiH it is known that the Institute of Competition exists for the directors of a primary and secondary school, which means that the director was warned: the day he was appointed that in four years, someone would appreciate his work, his results. If he has not satisfied them, he has fulfilled them, someone will take certain measures and bring another person to that position. So, for all this, my view and the opinion that the Constitutional Commission did not reject my amendments for procedural and formal reasons, but for fundamental reasons, and therefore I again tabled these amendments, thinking that this amendment did not come out of the framework of the amendment, given that we heard from Mr Genjac, who said that according to the Single Rules of Procedure, it is possible to act on amendments only to members who are subject to amendments and amendments to the law. The subject of amendments and additions to this Act is both Article 3 and Article 15. I asked that these views explain some things, to be precise, to simply introduce a new practice to the purpose of quality, transparency, efficiency, professionalism and all that is improved. So I think that the Commission did not do well, I don't think it should have rejected my amendments and that in this way, in fact, there is one legal acrobatics shown to avoid the essence of what is required by this amendment, which is that at all costs some people who have already been placed and brought here are appointed, who are already doing the work, which can be the subject of analysis and discussion, to keep them there, that no one from there can move them, or in any way create new conditions and the possibility that, perhaps, some younger person, some person who cares about the state office and the state service in the state institutions can make a greater contribution and greater results. And I have tabled these amendments and I believe that Parliament should today declare these amendments. I also have a proposal for one conclusion for the Council of Ministers, if the amendments are rejected, so here, you can tell me whether to announce it now or when it is. I ask that if Parliament today rejects the amendments that I have proposed, in this sense, I propose the following conclusion: 'The Council of Ministers shall be obliged to refer, by 1 May 2009, to the parliamentary procedure under the shortened procedure, the Law on Obligations, Rights and responsibilities of the appointed persons, which will include 21 secretaries-generals of the institutions, secretaries of the ministries, the assistant ministers to whom those persons will be appointed by the Council of Ministers for a period of five years.' It's a proposal for a conclusion that I'm going to ask us to come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24776	Let's move on. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24777	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, except for the original text of this 2002 law, this is the ninth amendment, as far as I could count. The law has been living in BiH's legal system for seven years. It was organized by the state service, not only at the state level but at all other levels of government, because the entity laws in this area are laws that are in line with this law, it was one package. And, I mean, the main thing to say is that we should try to improve the state service on the concept that it's been based on since 2002, not to put things back. Thus, the overall meaning and spirit of the original text of the Law and all that came later as its amendment must be viewed. It is true that they were amendments that were not acceptable to the Constitutional Legal Commission, because they differ from these basic principles and principles on which it was based, otherwise, the basic, original text of the Law,... not accepted. Some of these amendments are amendments to a distinguished colleague who spoke before me. And about the other things related to the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission with a lot of details, you were informed by a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Mr Genjac, who led this subgroup, who worked to agree on the overall text of the amendments, because it is true that there are some solutions that might be accepted, but because of the unique rules that do not affect members of the basic law, if they are not in amendments, as well as because of the fact that some amendments, because of the need to make the matter consistent in the overall legal system of BiH, here I am primarily referring to some crimes and violations, and this concerns Mr Vink Zorić's amendments, they need to be trained and included in order for the matter to be legally consistent in the right place. The Justice Department has been following this closely, so this debate, I'm sure they will. As for the question that you have asked me, Article 37 of this law is prescribed to authorise both committees of constitutional law, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, to make up a consolidated text of this law and we will do so. We already have the Department of Justice in charge, counting on us to get home's authority in the law itself, because Article 37 prescribed it, to make a consolidated text. There's only one need, and that's why I'm the one who started talking about this: the very text of the law doesn't say that this change, which we're going to make today, should be part of the consolidated text. Therefore, the consolidated text should also apply to this amendment, not only to those of the preceding ones that are numbered. That's one thing, then. And, it doesn't mind to draw a special conclusion that this is also a change and to be in charge, of course, of the one who should be in charge, if the House needs to, if it isn't enough to just do so by the Constitutional Commission. Here, I say let's say it's not enough, let it be the conclusion of the House, 22 we are stronger with the conclusion of the House than only with the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, although I don't think there would be any problem with any of that in communicating with the Justice Department. We have indeed one extraordinary communication with the Department of Justice. And, the third thing I wanted to say about this is that it refers to your opening statement at the opening of this session, Mr. Chairman, when you asked the commission to present their reports as soon as possible so that the House could work. I agree fully with you, I would just like to inform both you and Dom, or to remind you just that when the Constitutional Commission gets the text of a certain law, it does not easily drop it out of its hands. We've seen, so we've seen, if we drop it and leave it to a simple vote that it'll experience a fate like it shouldn't be here in this House, and we've decided to use every opportunity to have some text that's acceptable and that could pass here in the House, so I'd remind you that's how we ended up. So we're doing something we might not even have to do, but we could just leave it to the tech and let it go to Home then. But I would remind you that the Law on Higher Education was passed, let's say, after a great effort by the Constitutional Commission and the Resort Ministry, the Law on Medicinal Products, the Law on juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences, the Law on genetically modified organisms. It's all the laws we've been looking for and extending the deadlines to finish this job. And that's why I'm asking you to be observant when we're looking for an extension, because we're looking for these reasons. We could put the Labour and Employment Agency Act on the agenda today, formally do our part of the job and make it fall. Law on law, especially. There's one small percentage of the opportunity to bring it, as far as I see it now, and we want to see if it's possible to take advantage of that percentage too. And in that context, interpret what is done when the Constitutional Commission submits a request to extend the deadlines. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24778	I didn't think for a moment of such circumstances when I was speaking. I hope we fully understand what I was talking about. I was talking about the lack of quorum, the lack of frequent committee meetings, the use of time, etc. That's all I was talking about. Absolutely supporting efforts, etc. It's not forbidden to sit three times a week, there's no problem. Velimir Jukić. Mr. Jukić, I apologize, the first replica today is Mr. Novaković, I, I apologize, have just skipped by giving the word to Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24779	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I would like to replicate my colleague Marković. In fact, much earlier, we have defined the way the amendments work on individual legal solutions, and then we have clearly identified one interpretation that can only be applied to those provisions that are subject to the law. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, amandman, I. and Feed, They are not subject, your attitudes were not subject to the law, which, of course, gives a colleague Marković the right to propose that law on amendments and amendments to the laws that will treat these provisions and then to deal with these 23 provisions. This is what I am saying about the fact that I refuse every innuendo that these amendments have been rejected because someone wants to stay at work or because someone does not want to be admitted to work, and he is young and wants to be in the institutions of BiH, nor is that motive, at least, for me as a member of the Constitutional Commission he was, nor will he be, but simply an interpretation that is binding for all members of the Constitutional Commission, and not just members of the Constitutional Commission but also for all of us Members here in Parliament. So there were no other motives besides the ones I'm talking about. And, accordingly, I believe that these amendments cannot be the subject of a plea at today's session. So I can't be the subject of a statement at all, because it just doesn't match the interpretation we've had since the last term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24780	Replica, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24781	Well, it is clear to me that counterpart Novaković is asking that this law does not change in terms and context that I propose. It's party stuff. I'm not going to talk about it right now, but I want to say that we just heard it, and I listened very carefully to each other, Mr. Genjac, when he spoke on behalf of the Constitutional Commission. He clearly and decadently said that the subject of the amendment may be members who are subject to amendments and additions to the law. Here, and Mr. Džaferović confirms it. I said the subject of amendments and additions to the Bill of Law was amendments and additions to Articles 3 and 15, which I asked for amendments to be submitted to, and that they fit. You're now saying that I can't be the subject of an amendment to the views of those members, which is now contradictory. I want to believe what's in the Single Rules of Law, which is that the amendment can act on a member who's subject to change and supplementation, and you're now talking about attitudes. So now we can go and if you interpret it that way, then even when we get to the point of view if we agree that it can be an object, then you'll say, well, now can't that syntagma, so these rules say. Only this syntagma can stand in the amendment, and no other one I or any other MP can suggest. I mean, don't, take it then, so it's obvious that you didn't read these rules well, or you didn't understand them. And I am still behind this, and I find that my amendments have been rejected for fundamental reasons, not procedurally formal and that it was not a good will to accept these amendments for a variety of reasons which are now not the subject of this debate and the discussion being conducted. But in case these amendments are rejected, and I'm in a position to propose some new law that treats this matter, then we're going to talk about these reasons when I explain why I propose this law, what are the motives, actually, that preceded some previous law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24782	Mr. Novaković, before I give you the opportunity to replicate, let me remind you that... from the report we did not see that Mrs. Milica Marković's amendments were van of the poslovnik of Procedure. They've been considered, she's just repeating them at the plenary stage. So, here you go. Replica, Mr. Novaković. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24783	I'm really sorry that we're going into this kind of debate right now, but if a colleague takes Article 3. The law, so now reads, will then see that there is no attitude (2). So what it works on in this law when it doesn't work on what it does here, so there's no such thing, you can't act on something that doesn't exist. That's why it is such an interpretation. So it's simply not possible to act on something in a law that isn't within the law. That, I guess, should be clear. But, of course, here, it doesn't matter, I've said my position, I've expressed what we've taken care of so far and I personally, even, and if these amendments are the subject of the plea, I'll be against these amendments. Not because I don't think they should be the subject of discussion, but because I don't really agree with these amendments, especially with amandman I., which, for me, is absolutely unacceptable and I'm sure I won't support the conclusion that my colleague Marković suggested here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24784	Let's get back to the discussion order. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24785	Well, here, I'll say a few words. Working as a member of the Constitutional Committee but also in this subcommittee on these amendments and in talks with representatives of the Agency for State Service and representatives of the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Justice, we have actually come to a lot of conclusions. I'm just going to say some of them here and comment, and I'm going to propose one conclusion at the end. So, the Agency for State Services, no doubt, is doing a very important and responsible job and it is really in a position to conduct through the procedure the selection of civil servants. The ratio of the Commission to 3:2, or 2:3, so 3 from the Agency, and 2 from the institution in which it is elected or vice versa, as proposed, seems very important and important to me. In fact, it's about who will eventually decide which of the candidates will be accepted. This is about a very high level of discretion from these board members. In order to facilitate at least part of this, and to facilitate as much as possible objective criteria, measurable criteria, and as less subjective as possible to the assessment of candidates, I think it is necessary that the Agency for the State Service and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the RES, the Ministry of Justice, do an additional effort and review all sublegal documents that regulate all the issues from the reception, the selection of reception, the reception of officials, and try to install as many objectively measurable criteria, parameters and that subjective part of consciousness to a minimum. I think that this would ensure greater objectivity in the evaluation, reduce subjectivity in the same evaluation, make the overall process more transparent and I think that we would then have, I'm sure, and ultimately a better choice. I, in the last maybe several months, and before that, have been asked several times by some candidates who have applied for a certain position and have not passed, and they, each of them, but their subjective assessment is possible, and possibly, in part, not satisfied with the way in which only the candidate's assessment is conducted in the contest. And I don't think that for no reason 25 are unsatisfactory and that we should do that in a certain way, I said, here's the way, improvements and repairs. And here I am, and my colleagues have agreed and noticed that there are still some things and questions that need to be changed in this law. And, of course, it's our obligation, but it's also our job, our opportunity and our chance to act on these new amendments and amendments to the law in the coming period, and I expect that there will be such proposals. But here, I now support this as agreed on by the competent commission and what this subcommittee has proposed and I propose one conclusion: 'It is up to the Justice Ministry and the State Service Agency to do sublegal acts or to supplement existing such solutions that will ensure consistent respect and application of the highest standards for objective evaluation in testing the knowledge and general ability of candidates to join the state service. The aim of the consciousness is to make subjective assessment of the minimum measure, and to make the procedure for the reception of candidates more transparent and more objective by means of measurable parameters."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24786	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24787	I submitted five amendments in the amendment phase. Three amendments have been accepted by the Constitutional Commission, and two have not. These two amendments have been renewed and both relate to the existing articles of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements, and I do not see any justification, no respect, or non-compliance with these amendments, by the fact that this will sometimes be covered by some other law, i.e. amendments and additions to any other law. I suggest that the House accept both these amendments and when this matter is incorporated into other laws, so if some other laws treat this same matter, then let the Constitutional Commission propose amendments and supplement this law and let it erase these two things that I have proposed in these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24788	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24789	I thank you, Mr. President. I answered, now at the end of this debate, for two reasons. The first reason is that some amendments, which have been submitted by fellow Members and colleagues to these amendments to the law, have been rejected by both this Commission and the Working Group on Consistency with the call not to touch the articles of the laws contained in the amendments and amendments to the Law. I think, as far as I'm concerned, we've been given an interpretation that the House has given such an interpretation, a sort of conclusion in the last term. I think it's unsustainable, because we've spent time and debate and irrationally, here's whether it is or not, we've been having a debate on these amendments, and I don't know why we would go on and on and on about changing and supplementing these 26 laws. If one moves to change and supplement the law, then it should be possible to intervene all where it is necessary and justified, justified, that this can be done. And, formal rejection, I mean, it doesn't work out for us, and here, we see it from every procedure, and I think we really need to change that in the future. And secondly, I think this law and what we've done is a pretty good job, and we need it today, no matter what, I think, it could have gone a step further into change and addition. That these 10 agreed amendments should be supported and adopted by amendments to the law. And these additions and this way that Mr. Zorić was talking about, you see, here was the obligation for all the laws that we are making to agree six months from the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality in all other laws. We have to stick to it, we have had a serious debate on the Constitutional Commission and at the end of the vote the result of the vote is such that these two amendments are not accepted, and it doesn't matter, I respect it, but I think, until they are settled, and if and when these things are settled by other laws, then this practice should be respected by then. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24790	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask those who have indicated that they will propose conclusions regarding this agenda point to be delivered in writing. We're moving on, point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment (Second Reading) At the 36th session, this law was adopted in the first reading. On three occasions, an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the report is requested. For the first time since the College and twice this house has approved an extension. On 11 March, we received a report from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and, as you have seen, adopted the proposal for a law with two amendments adopted on the Joint Commission. At the plenary stage, we didn't get the amendment. I hope that this delay, which Mr. Džaferović spoke of, will bear fruit. I'm opening a debate. Šefik Džaferović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24792	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, there has been a long debate on this law, amending and supplementing this law, on the Commission for Defence and Security. It was the subject of reconciliation, the Council of Ministers asked for an opinion. You see that there are adopted and amendments, and this is something that, as far as I know, has been unanimously passed down on this committee. I suggest that Dom adopt it as an amendment to this law. That's it, thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24793	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions (first reading) It's about first reading. Council of Ministers' proposal of 25 February. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 16 March. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. We received the opinion of the committee responsible on 17 March. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. I don't have any applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24799	Therefore, the SDA referred to a similar initiative that is more comprehensive, more precise, and where the formulation of a new constitution is not used, but rather the making of amendments to the Constitution. In a conversation with the drivers, Mr. Raguž, so with one of the initiative's drivers on the agenda today, I have found that these are compatible two things and that we can include in the walk what the SDA suggested. So, I don't think there's going to be a need to put our initiative on the agenda in particular, but to bring these two initiatives in line now, during the procedure itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24800	Thank you. Perhaps I failed to convey the impressions, or convey reflections from an enlarged college where something similar was discussed. I thank you for reminding me of these things. Is Martine a replica because I have a report of Remzija Kadrić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24801	No microphone 29 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24802	Let's go in a row, let's go, yeah. Remzi, I'd like to ask you, Martin as a proposing, one of the initiative's drivers. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24803	I thank you again. A warm welcome to all honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, all present. Here, for a little while. The initiative is therefore submitted in accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 20. The college forwarded it to the Constitutional Commission. The ustavnopravni Law also unanimously assessed that it was submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it was in line with the legal and constitutional system, and the initiative was, in the same way, forwarded to the House of Peoples of this Parliament. What is important is to say: we are aware of the fact that Parliament is the place, the only place, the only institution where, according to Article 10. The Constitution (Anex 4), can and should be done either by adopting a new constitution or by amending this constitution. Secondly, we are aware of the limitations and necessity of constitutional reform. Dayton did, from the aspect of halting war and cataclysm that was unprecedented, a historical act but definitely no longer needs to spend much time elaborated on its limitations and the necessity of a democratic consensus over the most important act in every country. We also call for the declarations of the largest... organisations in Europe, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, on the necessity of constitutional and structural reforms in BiH. Then we welcome the political arrangements of the parties but we have experience of the processes so far where, if they are led outside the institutions and not transparently, we know how they ended up and it is time for the political talks to be channeled to the BiH Parliament in some way. In order not to overlap certain types of activities, since the constitutional committees of both homes have certain powers towards the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, around the Constitution, we have also suggested that the Joint College of the two houses of the BiH Parliament establish the composition of this working group where there would be no restrictions, because in the existing constitutional committees not all political options within Parliament are represented, we think there should be both positions and opposition. And not only the position and opposition, but also the experts of both domestic and international, and that within a reasonable period of time, and this is not an election year, it goes into this serious business, because there are also expectations of the public and our friends outside, and the right of this country to a democratic constitution cannot be challenged, and the time to realize it. Then, this initiative does not close any other initiative. Here, we heard from Mr. Izetbegović and I really think this is the box one in which you can and should incorporate all the serious intentions to go into this serious business. And I call on fellow MPs to support this initiative. I especially invite the presidents of all parties' clubs, because these days we've been visiting together, say, Bundestag, where we've been given clear messages that we're expected to do a significant part of the job. And if these messages are sent saltily from the outside and if some of the key political actors in BiH are constantly called on to be willing to take responsibility and that we do not need another 30 dominant international intervention role on this issue, here is the opportunity to testify to this credibility and support this project and that we are all going in this direction. And in this way, here, as the 10th point, all complaints would be avoided that the process is not conducted transparently, outside the institutions and far from the eyes of the public. And I think it's time for one of these steps, and I think this is a flexible enough initiative that hasn't prejudged any constitutional solution yet, just to encourage us all to get into this process. I think it deserves support, and about the modes, the work and the way – this can be done especially through the College's conclusions and through a possible debate on the relevant committees. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24804	Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24805	I thank you, Chairman. So this is about one important, probably most important initiative within the Rules of Procedure, Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I'll support the Initiative. I believe that, as the introduction said, we should therefore do these things within the framework of BiH institutions and, above all, what the working group should do in this initiative, to create the text of a new constitution as a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring self-sustainability, stability and the European future of BiH where individual and collective rights of constituent peoples and citizens should be addressed in a standardised way. So, not to go broadly, I think this is a significant issue and I expect MPs to support this initiative as one of the beginnings in the construction of a new BiH constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24806	I had a reported Mirko Okolić. Sir, are you staying?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24807	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24808	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24809	Thank you very much. I only have one small intervention in the last paragraph, he says: We suggest that the number of members from the working group determine the Joint College of both homes, and the Working Group should certainly be entered by the College, etc. I would suggest here instead of decrees, because it would be logical for such a serious composition to confirm this parliament. In that form of intervention, thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24810	Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24811	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will be quite brief. I think two of these initiatives, as far as I could read the last initiative of the U.S.A. because it came two days ago to the MPs, actually, that these two initiatives are not identical. I will support that initiative that goes on the variant to discuss changing the Constitution as a whole, not partially and only parts of that Constitution. And that is why I would like to join and support this initiative... which is on the agenda today, certainly with the desire to include representatives of all parties, regardless of which, in fact, parliamentary parties, whether they are in position or opposition. That's one thing. And, secondly, partial solutions to the Constitution and how some people like to speak step by step are not in my vision... of the Constitution. And I believe that the Constitution must work as a whole, especially if it is done within Parliament, and that would be the best solution. We should try and I'm convinced that we can insist on changing the Constitution so that we can all be happy together. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24812	Next is Jozo Križanović. I hope we don't open a debate about the Constitution. Here you go. It's about the Initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24813	I'm mostly on the agenda. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I find it difficult today not to support this initiative, especially because it comes for the first time in three years when we discussed here the Constitution of BiH. It is difficult not to support in particular because the ruling six years ago also promised constitutional reform two years ago as one of its priorities and it is difficult because the constitution is indeed a serious problem for BiH, that however certain problems are eliminated, it all comes down to the Constitution. So we will certainly support this initiative, but I think it would be good – although, as the promoter said: he did not want to prejudge any of the things – so that this would not remain at the level of some's resolution. However, in the end, I would offer an additional conclusion to this initiative, which would actually aim at, in some ways, working out this initiative in terms of and forming a working group, working methods, well, I would dare say, some deadlines and the need to report this home on the progress of work on this job. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24814	Adem Huskić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'll say the shortest sentence I've ever said. This initiative is legal, legitimate, timely and welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24816	Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24817	I'll just talk about the Initiative for a little while. So, this initiative and today's debate on this initiative, I realized that we would only declare ourselves: whether we support the initiative or not, and that at one of the next sessions there would be a point after the Collegia, or possibly together with the House of Peoples, to form a working group. I support today's first debate by fellow Izetbegović, who was clear and I also support everything they have made, although in the form of a decision. The two things are: it's the same matter and I don't think we should, with all due respect from fellow Ekrem Ajanović, discuss it this way. This is about an initiative for a new constitution. A kolega Izetbegović, or SDA Club, did not call it that, but in a debate that can be under the same agenda and under the same working group, we will very easily agree on what it is and why it would not be a new constitution, just if it overlaps and a lot of what is contained in the existing Constitution. In the end, BiH deserves a constitution adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not to work, for 13 or 14 years, under the Constitution, which is an Annex to a Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24818	Sadik Bahtić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24819	I'll do the same for a while. I support the initiative, and I am glad that finally the Initiative for the adoption of a new constitution came to this parliament, meaning legal institutions, and I believe that what the six-point-three are saying, has proved in practice that no restaurants, gudures,... settlements, dikes, can't bring, are not serious, can't, means, however, that only those whom the people democratically chose to have the right, both the position and the opposition to debate, because it's an act of all BiH citizens, and we leave the cafes in the afternoon. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24820	And I still have a report, there's Momčilo Novaković, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I see they have two replicas, two replicas. Šefik Džaferović. So we're on our way to a constitutional debate. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24821	We're not going to the constitutional.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24822	We did, we did, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24823	I'd just, uh, I'm not gonna say anything, I'd just ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24824	Just say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24825	So, don't be offended in Parliament. Here, I tell Mr. Bahtić I won't say anything else, but just let us be dignified, don't insult each other. No Niko was in the crowds either, no one was anywhere for themselves, but to do good to this country in an attempt to do good to this country. And don't, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24826	That's a little out of Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24827	When we were supposed to be, we were, yes, that's right, Salko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24828	So, he wasn't mean, it went a little off, we won't move on. Sadik Ahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24829	I've met a lot of people,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24830	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24831	I met a lot of people in Bosnia who were born in rubbers and were other good people. This country of Bosnia was made, so Bog gave it, that the country is both a gourd and rivers and mountains, and every inch of it is part of BiH, and there was blood in every inch of this war when it comes to BiH and I don't see it that way and I don't think it's appropriate to communicate in this parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24832	Azra Hadžiahmetović. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24833	First, let me...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24834	Replic, same replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24835	May I, the chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24836	I'm not defending you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24837	Thank you. Well, I mean, you're communicating with others, too, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24838	They're all communicating, everyone with everyone, I don't have the strength to handle it anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24839	Okay. First, I have no intention of interpreting what some writer was going to say, but let this issue and this controversy and debate and calls and understanding or misunderstandings only mention that we are on several occasions, and as a club of MPs, and in this Parliament, and in public, we have highlighted the importance of discussing this kind of institution. So Parliament and this hall and other institutions are the place to discuss, debate and make important decisions for BiH. I'm asking you to understand the story and the discussion and the intervention that you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24840	Here, I'd like to ask Mr. Bahtić to wrap up this geography so we can move on. Momčilo Novaković, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24841	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I have to say that I wasn't present on the Constitutional Commission when we discussed this, but of course I'm not going to take that time, now, I'm going to be very brief. So, when it comes to this proposal, there are certain principles in this initiative that are acceptable to me, the principle of participation and positions and opposition. I believe that the way the talks on constitutional changes are now being held does not provide any guarantees to support these constitutional changes, and therefore the Constitution must be the subject of all political factors in this country and on this side, therefore, that principle is acceptable to me. 35 The principle that the debate is being held in institutions, not in cafes, is also acceptable, and I agree here, means that really debates on the Constitution should be drawn up in institutions. But what I don't agree with in the Initiative is that it's an initiative to create a new constitution. Namely, this initiative that something else has been formulated and talks about constitutional changes would probably lead to a different way of making my statement about this initiative. However, the initiative's promoter felt that a new constitution should be worked. I believe that the Constitution needs to be amended by constitutional amendments, meaning not that there is a new constitution, but that the existing Constitution is done to the extent that the necessary majority can be provided for its adoption and for that very reason alone, I am not prepared at this time to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24842	Martin Raguž, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24843	I thank my colleague Novaković for this discussion, but I remind him that the procedure, either for the adoption of a new constitution, or for the amendments to the Constitution, was defined in Article 10. The Constitution. So we can call a new constitution, it will happen again by the procedure provided for in this constitution. So I don't think that's a strong enough argument to say that it's not supported because we're formulating it that way and I don't think that that kind of argument stands, because whether it's a new constitution or a constitutional amendment, it's going to have to do with a procedure that predicts Annex 4 of the Dayton Constitution. So it is important to agree on the content of these constitutional solutions, and as we will call them, I as a proposing, here I could accept responsibility in this sense that it will not be an obstacle if one serious agreement and consensus is reached. I think it should be clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24844	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24845	If that's not a problem, then here's the motion to change this initiative and then it's no longer a problem. So I said what was the problem with my statement on this. So if the Proposer changes the Initiative in the way I said, then we can talk about it further. I'm speaking from my position. It is clear to me that the Constitution will change or make what is agreed. And for that very reason, I would like to say in advance what is the obstacle to the agreement. So the obstacle is to create a new constitution, it's the first obstacle, not to talk about the many obstacles that will occur in the meantime and, therefore, if it's not a problem, then the promoter can make a change in the name of his initiative, and then we can discuss this, or we can negotiate further procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24846	Denis Bećirović, discussion. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24847	When it comes to the position of the SDP, I want to repeat our principled position that we will always support any changes to the Constitution that this country needs to make more functional, prosperous and more efficient. In this regard, we are the first political party to offer its vision of the BiH Constitution in the Parliamentary Assembly, and we have also participated in other attempts to make certain changes to the BiH Constitution. So, regardless of being an opposition party, we will never be in a position to obstruct the process of constitutional reforms and the process of bringing BiH closer to the EU. However, regarding this initiative, I want to clarify a few questions. Namely, the first question, i.e. the finding. Here I have an agreement on the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, an agreement establishing the current majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and the agreement has been signed by six political parties, here are the signatures and leaders. After that, programme objectives of the ruling six were signed, and one of the main promises made in autumn 2006, now in 2009, is that this parliamentary majority was committed, quote: constitutional solutions that will establish a functional and modern BiH with European standards. I recall this programme promise from the ruling coalition in BiH and I wonder what this initiative means after the fact that we have this promise as one of the fundamental promises of the ruling coalition at the state level. Is the adoption today of this initiative a defeat of this 2006 promise or the renewal of this agreement and its concreteisation – that should be clarified here? This agreement is still in force, and that is how it should be observed. No Niko since the ruling six parties at the state level has said they deny or withdraw their signature from this agreement. Therefore, things should be put where they belong, which is that there is already a solid foundation and the possibility that the ruling six raises the issue of constitutional changes, which is what the citizens of BiH expect, and the SDP as an opposition party is perfectly natural to remind and warn of this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24848	Replica, Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24849	I would ask my colleague, Denis Bećirović, not to mix pears and apples. By signing six parliamentary parties, it has nothing to do with acts in BiH institutions. And this is about the biggest law, the biggest act in BiH. And we don't need to ask if someone pulled the signature or not. It is not a question of this House and this Parliamentary Assembly. We are interested in this initiative that BiH as a country that has no constitution, it is Anex, not adopted in parliamentary procedure. So we want him adopted. Will counterpart Novaković, 80%, overlap 70% with the old Constitution? Of course he will. All those things that have been trained in the existing Annex 4 of the Peace Agreement will be prescribed. It is clear what things in the Constitution must be experienced by reforms, but our wish and our initiative is that BiH can have one solemn moment when it says: we are in parliamentary procedure, of course if this working group is agreed, 37 if one consensus is reached, then let us say: today is a solemn day for BiH, in parliamentary procedure, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the Constitution of BiH was adopted. And fellow Bećirović, please do not make it clear that the presidents of political parties have signed this initiative. This initiative is much more serious than the signing and negotiation of political parties that formed the parliamentary majority. We here want to return constitutional matter to parliamentary procedure, and that's the only point. Of course, I repeat once again, I accept all the initiative that counterpart Bakir Izetbegović said in today's first debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24850	Replica, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24851	Well, I'm afraid my colleague Zorić is trying to tell us that we distinguish apples from apples. The fact that the HDZ, among other things as one of the six political parties, signed and committed itself to this parliament and to the citizens of BiH, together with the other five ruling parties at the level of the BiH state, is clearly to be reminded here. My message to you is very clear. There was no obstacle to you working on this plan for the last three years. We have lost three years and if this initiative and this decision means something to you in the sense that you will speed up, that you will try to make up for lost time, again we from the SDP tell you - we will not be an obstacle to you on that path and we will always support everything that will create a functioning BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24852	Milorad Živković, discussion. Is it a replica, Vinko?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24853	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24854	Correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24855	So, what Denis Bećirović is talking about, I'm not going to elaborate again. It's not about three years, it's two years closer than three years.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24856	Discussion, Milorad Živković. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24857	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, I don't belong to those people or that stranger who wants to brag here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24858	Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24859	By being the first to initiate or... just because of the exclusiveness of it, I am more to those who belong to the people who will boast of the work that has been done in the way that it is possible in this country. Therefore, I think that if we talk about the initiative, we should first discuss whether conditions have been created, i.e. the preconditions for constitutional reform in this country and what is the turn of the move and who has the political weight to launch this serious reform. My view that the political preconditions for constitutional reform in this country, and we saw yesterday as a public debate here in Sarajevo, were not created for a more serious constitutional reform, and in particular it is not the order in which this initiative came here to Parliament from a political party that has, indeed, legitimacy and legality and according to the Rules of Procedure and by all means to propose this constitutional reform, or initiative, but certainly has no political weight to enter into one reform in this way. Therefore, in order to separate policy from politics, I will specifically say that the SNSD Club is not for this initiative because we believe that conditions are not created to discuss this in the way it is proposed here, in particular we are not going to adopt or discuss the new constitution in the first paragraph, where indicated. You know our position on this and the attitude with the people with whom we have signed certain agreements. In those agreements, we also wrote a series of steps that we should take. I know that some other initiatives have come here to Parliament and we will have some answers to these initiatives and we believe that the order of the move was the way the budget was agreed, the Brcko District, the state property, the census and then a relaxed story of constitutional changes in what we agreed, the way we should do it. At the same time, I do not see where Mr Novaković saw that this initiative stated that the opposition would be represented by the commission, because I do not see it from this document in the Initiative. I see it was assigned to the College. Please, don't give the College any assignments that way, but specify in the Initiative what, who, when and how to do it, to get this job serious. So from all of this and much of what I didn't want to make, that we don't open this debate in a direction where it doesn't currently have the space to be expanded, we're not going to support this initiative the way it's proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24860	Here's Mr. Živković to the debate. There you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24861	The minimum I can do now is replicate, and I will replicate because it is not the first time that Mr. Živković takes a cantar and measures someone's political weight. I don't know what the groundwork is: political credibility, relations to this country or any other criteria? What is this criterion that gives you for the right? If the criterion is credibility, then your peace implementation president said that he and the SNSD were both personally for root constitutional reform. The recent agreement in Banja Luka presented it as history, and then in Mostar he said what he said, but I will not discuss it and I am not in the Initiative any word of the daily policy. And I did not, either, or my colleague Zorić, in any sentence in this initiative, prejudge the way within Parliament, nor the contents of the constitutional solution, but rather – the initiative to return the situation to Parliament and also the position and opposition to say what they think about it. And we have not set a limit to which it is possible to go and should go into constitutional changes, nor have we brought any right constitutionally or any other question. So, colleague Živković, your statement was extremely inappropriate about this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24862	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24863	I think, Mr. Raguž, that your relationship to such an important issue was extremely inappropriate,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24864	Very serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24865	'Cause the way you came
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24866	Let's just listen to each other for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24867	with this initiative here to be commended among the media and others, who are following this important thing in BiH, that it is only your initiative and the very way it has been submitted. Therefore,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24868	Please, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24869	You didn't ask for support from other MPs here in this, you went alone with the Initiative, even though you knew that it had no basis for the principles that you suggested. My party president 40 said literally, and that in all documents there is, that the amendment can change the Constitution, he has not said anywhere that a new BiH constitution is being adopted and that is why we are against it. In addition to being against the way this initiative was put forward, we are against what you want to go about changing and adopting a new BiH constitution, and I think that's the answer to that. And some others here have also submitted initiatives for the replacement of the Council of Ministers, and you know how much support, weight, and according to these cantars and these standards, I have also assessed that political weight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24870	All right, thank you, we're going on a discussion. Sefer Halilović. Excuse me, Martin Raguž, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24871	This is the last time I answer for a word. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24872	Mr. Raguž, you've already had two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24873	I won't answer again, you know I don't replicate, I won't answer again. We haven't found out in one word that this is our initiative anywhere, and that's why I have to pick up, we never claimed it was exclusively our initiative. She has a majority, just to tell Mr. Živković, she already has a majority within this parliament, because she doesn't have your party that's your right, but let it be known and it will remain registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24874	I beg you, please, do not abuse me, so Rules of Procedure, two replicas, no further.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24875	Does this initiative have a majority or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24876	There's an unnecessarily increasing atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24877	We'll check most of it when there's a vote. So, I would not prejudge that statement of yours, and the very relationship to this initiative will also show our relationship with all the initiatives that are put forward in this House. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24878	I'm asking you to come back, so please, let's get back to the subject. We have the Initiative, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, everyone has the right to speak their mind and everyone has the right to declare it as he thinks it should be. So there's no need for big words. Sefer Halilović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24879	Respect, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my opinion is something different from the previous debaters. I think the Initiative is legal and legitimate and we will, of course, declare it with our own heads. I think it is the right place to discuss this new constitution or to change the existing Constitution Parliament, and not some place – cafes, restaurants, excursions, etc. - and there is absolutely support there, but personally I think that the issue of amending the Constitution or adopting a new constitution, that everyone in this room knows that for now there is no political will, nor political consent, and that this story of changing the Constitution or the new constitution will serve only to start slowly heating up now to get a fake picture of the situation in BiH again in the coming election year. I think that this initiative should be supported, but after the 2010 elections, because everyone here is known that there is no political will so far, and those who attended public debates, here is the amendment that has received plebistar support in Parliament, you see how many problems there are from Mostar via Sarajevo to some other cities in BiH. So, I don't think we should, that we should bring in moratories to not discuss the Constitution until at least 2010, because political parties will use the story of the Constitution to put in a completely different way recessions, economic crisis, unemployment, protection of domestic production, social issues, martial arts and hundreds of other issues that the current Constitution does not make any obstacle for us to solve and, as you can see, we are not solving them, but we are now going to talk about the Constitution so that under the company of the wolf, we leave the main problems that BiH poses. So, I'm against talking about this and I think that we should put a moratorium in order not to discuss this at least by 2010, until this frustration is over with the recession and the economic crisis and everything that we have with a series of social, economic and political problems, because everyone in this room knows well that there is no political will now neither to change the constitution nor to adopt a new constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24880	Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24881	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, we in the People's Party Work for the better welcome the initiative of colleagues from HDZ 1990. We think that the minimum consensus which the ruling six and the opposition should also have – is to form a committee that will work on further constitutional issues. So this is a process that is necessary for the needs of 42 peoples and citizens of this country, and also for the purposes of joining BiH, we will have to change constitutional arrangements in these two processes. We will support this initiative, and we think it is a minimum and, as counterpart Bećirović said, the commitment of the ruling six-member who took over when the chair was divided into the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24882	I don't have any more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (second reading) You saw from the report that we didn't achieve consent. We'll vote in the second round on the bill I mentioned. Please, please let me work on it. So, I'm passing, please, Mr. Živković and Mr. Džaferović, so I don't have any applications for discussion and I'm closing the debate on item 11. Let's go to point 12. Ad. 12. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Sefer Halilović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24885	If you allow only two or three sentences as an explanation. We are on the commission: one of the five conclusions was to make, to propose on the Commission to propose an amendment to this law, which was found to have been passed by BiH among the first countries in the region, but that no safeguard measures were provided for to implement this law. 43 We have commissioned the Professional Service to make a proposal for this law and the truth is that we did not discuss on the commission whether it would be an emergency procedure, whether it would be a shortened procedure or a regular procedure. It's one of the mistakes that we might have made and it's possible one of the mistakes that I made when I signed this bill. But please, because the Commission of Investigation will not be able to do its job effectively if Parliament has brought and formed an investigative commission to do this job, then the law should also be passed. Whether it will be in a regular, shortened or normal procedure, but this law is necessary to bring as soon as possible. Of course, I'd most like him to be adopted today. If not, then let him go in a short procedure, we just need this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24886	Here, I gave Mr. Halilović a word for the simple reason that he didn't have a chance when we discussed it for the first time and I hope it didn't bother him, it was useful to hear it, but here is Mr. Živković – when you start to open the debate, then...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24887	I just want to warn you that this is already the second item of the Commission that has not been adopted. We have proposed, you know, on the Commission ourselves, how to secure resources for work and that it has not passed on the Administrative Commission, so that we will have to sit on the Commission and see why our proposal on the Administrative Commission has not passed, and I suggest to Parliament today not to support the 127 request, to go to a shortened procedure 126, to consider whether we will punish anyone, in any library that does not give information, so to the dragons' penalties. The point of us in the Commission was to get information from those who keep information from us in terms of donor means, but we will be in a position to use our intent well to punish people for not getting information in some bizarre places, and that is why it would be better to think about 126 to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24888	Well, here it is, though it may not be the hottest opportunity, but it's good we heard this. In fact, this parliament when it sets up a commission and gives it a task, the Ad hoc commission, etc., must indeed be followed by logistics. It's incorrect, as they say, to have a baby and let it rock itself or to carry it away. So, both around access to information and about logistics support, we need to respond to these facts and these demands. Did I get a good look at this? Azra, did you sign up for the replica? Wrong. Okay. I'm closing point 12. Let's see just a little work schedule. We have, I've already announced, space to work until 5:00, because technically some things have to be done for tomorrow's seminar that will be here in the White Hall, an important seminar. Let's see when we can take a break. Are we going to be taking a break early 44 at 1:00, say, so by 1400, we'll have a break... So, from 13.00 to 14.00 breaks. We're working until 1:00. Please, let's go to point 13. The point was formulated the way we got the name of the material, and otherwise they were initiatives in the sense that we get the execution report and where we are, what's left unfinished. Ad. 13. Action plan to meet European Commission recommendations on Roadmap for visa liberalisation for BiH citizens In short, at the 45th session of the Joint Commission on European Integration, she submitted a proposal to the co-workers of both homes to put an end to the agenda called The problem of implementing the obligations defined by the Roadmap for visa liberalisation in connection with the non-confidentiality expressed by the EU representative in the system of personalisation of travel documents. On the occasion of this proposal, I have sent a request to the Council of Ministers to deliver the relevant material to discuss this issue. In the introduction, I said what kind of material we got. The committee responsible is the one who launched this initiative, so the Joint Commission for European Integration. On 16 March, she was on the agenda of this material and you have the opinion that she supports the Action Plan and proposes that the Council of Ministers be asked to... explain the reasons behind the delay in implementing certain measures and to propose acceptable ways of resolving disputed measures from the Roadmap. So no one here at this time from the Council of Ministers has any. I will ask the service to inform the Secretary-General, or the head of the Interresor Group, of the debate on this agenda point and that Parliament expects, or the House of Representatives, to expect some further clarifications. But here, we have a large number of people reported. I think it'll be possible to realize. The man's name is Samir Rizvo. I ask that it be called if it is not on the way or that the Secretary-General is consulted upstairs in the Council of Ministers – who could be the one to answer the question of MPs. I do express my dissatisfaction with the dissatisfaction and the ministers who are directly involved and the head of the Interresor Group, but here we have a large number of reported, we go in line.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24890	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24891	Jozo, pick up your word so I can hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24892	All right, I'll get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24893	Well, no, you're intervening something, what is it, what is it? 45
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24894	So I intervene. Excuse me, the Commission concludes that the Council of Ministers, not the group manager, is looking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24895	Mr. Križanović, when I provide someone here, then you will express your opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24896	So it won't be enough just Mr. Rizvo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24897	Well, I believe it won't be enough for you to bring in three council ministers. Here you go, Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24898	That's what I'm gonna say if it's enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24899	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24900	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, of course, for putting this issue on the agenda. Although the formulation of the point is somewhat different, it ensures that the Commission's conclusion on European integration on where we are in this area is quite satisfactory, too. I'll have some preliminary notes that I think are necessary and for some chronology, but also for general consideration of the importance of this issue. Among the latest polls, which have been conducted, 80% of BiH citizens are unreserved for EU integration, and when asked what they see well: out of the eight issues offered, the largest number of them answered to see freedom of movement. This issue, the importance of this freedom and the sense of freedom of movement, is particularly strengthened in the context of threatening economic problems, existing recessions, etc., so that this can be an additional reason, along with all of these, the freedom of movement of BiH citizens,... the reason for increased social tensions. That's why I think an extremely important question and a question to whom attention should be paid to quite the opposite of how the Council of Ministers did it by doing so – the point is getting closer, the fewer representatives of the Council of Ministers are at this session. From the presentation and from the reports you've had, the contribution and what I'm going to say in the introduction, I think it'll be quite clear that here at this point, when we talk either today or at some next session, we have to have the capacity of the Council of Ministers. Why? 46 The Interresor group was already appointed in May last year and when a map of the road map was announced, and the map of the liberalisation road was presented in July of last year, very briefly, the European Commission then asked BiH for a preparedness report and the Interresor group produced a preparedness report in which around 120 questions answered what BiH could do. After that, the Interresor Group proposed, the Council of Ministers adopted the Action Plan in the 7th month. In the 11th month of last year, the European Commission considered after the talks and watched the opportunities in BiH provided a document called BiH Road Map Implementation Assessment. So they looked at what was done and assessed the implementation, so it was at the end of last year. On 22 January this year, the Council of Ministers discussed the Implementation Assessment, also discussed reports by the Interresor Group on a dialogue conducted with the European Commission, etc., and there are around 52 issues focused in the process. Out of 120 there are 52 issues that require additional measures, enforcement, deadlines and resolution. The Council of Ministers tasked the Interresor Group with doing so and the Interresor Group has made the Action Plan for implementing recommendations from the European Commission's Implementation Assessment Map. The official document is called the Action Plan for implementing the recommendations set out in the Implementation Assessment document. Now, this Plan of Action is today's topic of debate, so we just have in mind: The map of the road is a document that is far wider and in which a good part and is done or found a way to do it, and this plan of measures to implement these recommendations is a document that we are talking about today and it is up-to-date, and it is up-to-date and we need to see about each group of questions about what to do. One group of issues has been resolved, there is no dispute, there is a way of resolving, there are duties, there is quite a degree of consensus, and I would not stick to these issues. However, the two groups of questions are interesting and I think the benefits of this debate will be that if we offer some answers to these two groups of questions or at least draw attention to that problem. Namely, one group of questions is about which the Interresor Group has requested the Council of Ministers' position. So they asked for the political position of the Council of Ministers, because the Interresor group cannot resolve it. This is not a large number of issues, but a number of very significant issues that the Interresor group has no political capacity, and for these issues there are major political considerations, the Interresor Group has asked the Council of Ministers for a position. The Council of Ministers adopts the Action Plan drawn up by the Interresor Group and does not say at all about the issues the Interresor Group is looking for. So, we adopt the Report, we pass it on to the Parliamentary Assembly, we ignore the issue, and these issues are therefore interagency co-operation in the fight against organised crime. So, among all the agencies, we have that in several places there is a fight against crime and each one in its own way, but there is not enough interagency co-operation and the European Commission is looking for a strong link to know what is going on in one place. Improving statistical instruments to measure the level of crime? Every police force, and we know how many of them there are, has its records, its criminal records, and the European Commission wants to know in one place what is going on and who is entering the EU with the Bosnian Herzegovic passport, what is related to it in that criminal record, and not that after months of checking what is at stake. 47 There is further demand for harmonisation of legislation with international legal instruments in the fight against corruption, etc., where there is a particular issue of interinstitutional arrangements to combat corruption and establish a specialised body. The recommendations of GRECO and these conventions and these standards require a central anti-corruption body. And this central anti-corruption body that we have had the opportunity to stay, a larger group of MPs in Vienna, some time ago in the organisation of the European Parliament, so the central anti-corruption body that each country has and which is established under the law and whose role is not to have investigative powers in our country, but to record, suggest, coordinate, etc. and to be established under the law, because it cannot otherwise carry out that activity. It's been on the Council of Ministers for eight months, simply not allowed to get rid of it. According to my latest information, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has sent a proposal to the European Commission for a team to coordinate on a voluntary basis. Of course, from the European Commission, there will be an answer that does not satisfy the principles, we will lose time and we will have to do it right again. Then a political stance is required on the law, further police reform laws related to fragmented telecommunications systems and fragmented databases. As I said, every police force has its own databases, it's wanted in one place to increase the operational co-operation of police bodies to be in one place and records and unique telecommunications systems. On these issues, therefore, which I am in short, that is about six issues, the Interresor Group has asked the Council of Ministers' position, a political stance on what to do. Neither this plan nor the accompanying text of the Council of Ministers nor a word of this. There's got to be an answer to what we're gonna do. It must be answered how we should work, because this year is about the European Commission's commitment to the Balkans and is called the European Year for the Balkans. Political preparedness, if not, and political decision, I would dare say, that visas are lifted in the region, but the condition is very specific things, very concrete things that are not harmful to anyone, things that are useful to all peoples and to all citizens of BiH, simply to be done or not done. There's nothing in between. That is, therefore, one group of issues on which the Interresor Group sought a political stance. I think the Council of Ministers must answer these questions. What's the problem? What's the problem? Well, let's see what it is, why there's no answer and what's the problem? What's he like, whatever the answer is to hear him and see what we do? Another group of issues that are interesting in this plan, which is interesting for this state of liberalisation and our process and which is interesting and in terms of this plan is one group of laws that are decidently prescribed in the Map of Ways to be adopted in BiH to discuss progress. It's the Border Control Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24901	Hurry up, time, Mr. Genjac!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24902	I'm sorry. Law on border control, then application of UN Protocol 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24903	I know it's important. We don't have a quorum. I'm gonna take a break now, I mean, it's really important. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24904	So, in addition to the Border Control Act,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24905	I'm just waiting for the Genjac to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24906	The implementation of the UN protocol on the ban on illegal arms trafficking, and it is simply an obligation for BiH to pass the Law on arms and the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters. So these are simply obligations under protocols that are simply valid for us. Then, the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. And now you see, lastly, in this evaluation of the implementation made by the European Commission, we had an assessment that the Law on Border Control is in parliamentary procedure. We had an assessment that the Arms Act was in parliamentary procedure. We had an assessment that the Law on International Legal Assistance was in parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24907	They're not anymore, we know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24908	And now we have a condition that all these laws are down, you know. Now, look, I wouldn't want to open up some now fierce political debate and some controversy, but the facts speak. So, we've accepted the Roadmap, we've defined ourselves to liberalise the visa regime, we've defined ourselves politically unanimously for European integration, we know in the Roadmap what is stated, what dots are and then we come here under egide or under the assumption that it's not the jurisdiction of the state, but that's the jurisdiction of the entity. We have MPs who vote against these laws, who are explicit as conditions. We need to open this dialogue. We need to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24909	Time, Mr. Genjac!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24910	So, to conclude, today's debate will probably only be to draw attention to this issue and I think that it should be put in place monthly during this period and certainly secure the Council of Ministers' position. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24911	Break 10 minutes. Break 10 minutes, call the MPs. I'm taking a break for 10 minutes, Mr. Bećirović. [[PAUZA]] Here, Mr. Jovičić helped us have a quorum. You weren't, we were deciding something about pay, presence, next month.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24913	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24914	All right, all right. And you might hear the first one, too. So please take your seats. Mr. Matić, please take your seats. Selim, here I hope to free him. So we're going back to work. I'm really asking for patience and presence. The break's at 1:00. In the break, we tried to provide competent men from the Council of Ministers. I have to admit, there are technical problems. We only placed this item on the agenda yesterday because we have just received the Commission's opinion, so the Council of Ministers has some argument as to why it was not notified in time, etc., but here we will see, it will probably join us. So, we have a large number of discussions reported, we're going in a row now. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24915	Thank you, Chairman. Here, at first let me mention just that I listened with attention to the exposure of my fellow Genjac, who, I must say, perhaps in the sea of important things he mentioned about this point was a little lost specific weight, just turning his attention to key problems relating to visa liberalisation. Here, and to mention a couple of perhaps observations, the corrections that the team was highlighted, that is to say, some findings, among other things, why there is no Council of Ministers here. Here, I'll mention at the very beginning that if we're going to, for example. The plan of activities of this kind for such an important area just to determine, evaluate, criticise, conclude something that will not have a specific weight, etc. and not seeing yourself and your role in all this, then it doesn't matter that there may not be a representative of the Council of Ministers. 50 To mention, my colleague Genjac mentioned the Interresor Working Group's activity plan, which was submitted to the Council of Ministers, etc. I'll just remind you that this is the plan of action adopted by the Council of Ministers. No matter who did it, this plan of activity is the Council of Ministers' Plan, and as such it came to us in Parliament. Listing and reading this material with great attention, knowing the specific gravity of the issue of visa liberalisation, I was, among other things, trying to differentiate or indicate Parliament's obligations, which I must say was very difficult. Of the 56 areas of activity, I think that a fellow Genjac has mentioned such a number, I have indicated 16 here where I have seen the possible role, more possible than the express role of Parliament or Parliament's commitment to visa liberalisation. Let's say the two clear obligations of Parliament relating to Parliament, or I can refer to Parliament, in terms of initiative or completion of the procedure, I, to remind you, initiated this morning. And these are the signing of an international convention and an additional protocol. It is a very clear obligation, to say, to Parliament, if nothing else, it is in the final phase of ratification. The rest of this, I must tell you, has been very difficult to see at all where Parliament's role is. I, of course, saw the role of Parliament as a Parliamentarian. I have not seen the role of other institutions, ministries, Council of Ministers, state agencies, etc. However, I must tell you that the general impression is next. Here, which or which structures are abundantly rich in this Activity Plan: it is necessary to improve. Here you need to get a good dent to see if that promotion means, for example. passing some law or some law. It's necessary to strengthen. Does this mean strengthening the possible adoption of some laws or sublegal acts? It takes extra effort. Does the additional effort mean the adoption of new laws? Or it says: progress needs to be made, etc. I mean, I want to mention that it is not explicitly necessary to adopt this and that law, and it is necessary to adopt this and, among other things, that it is abundantly active, especially for such an important problem as visa liberalisation. I'll just mention another absurd, for example. It says: Time limits are needed to plan activities such as amendments to the Criminal Law and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. I don't know what it means to take time and what kind of planning activities. I guess we need an amendment or amendments to the law, a criminal law and a law on the prevention of money laundering. Or, for example, says: If the Financial Department of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection needs to strengthen, or strengthen the capacity to fight drugs, it says, financially, human, human, human, human, technical, etc., it reflects the budget adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. So we cannot say that even what is not a direct obligation by Parliament does not directly refer to the role of Parliament in this whole visa liberalisation process. What do I want to mention? I think maybe the plan should have been made a little clearer, more concrete, in terms of the operator of the activity, in terms of the precise obligation that stands. I won't address it to the Interresor Working Group, or Mr. Rizvo, or anyone. This plan, whoever created it, adopted the Council of Ministers and this is the plan of Mr Špirić and the ministers, i.e. calling on the Council of Ministers. If, at any rate, it is necessary to mention the open issues that they have done in the transcripts with the Council of Ministers, which Mr Genjac spoke of, and if they are concerned with, say, making some political decisions, then these issues should have been addressed here to this parliament. 51 However, regardless of all this, I believe that this Parliament is obliged to draw from this or the revised Plan of activity the Plan for the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly in the realisation of the visa liberalisation obligations. I, in that sense, initiate and suggest that either our committee in coordination with the ministry, or representatives of this group who did so precisely, specify precisely what these obligations are directly indicated or indirectly by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, therefore resulting from some other obligations that we would approach the realization of these activities, that we should not be in a position tomorrow that everyone is accused, that someone is guilty, in the end no one is guilty. Let's know exactly that we both wear responsibility for what we've done or not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24916	Thank you. Business intervention, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24917	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, we were obliged to put this item on the agenda, given that all the conditions were implemented and that opinions were received from our commission, although it was fairly late delivered so that we failed to provide the Council of Ministers here, and as you can see from the Opinion, the conclusion and all these discussions were to ask the Council of Ministers to explain the reasons for the delay in implementing certain measures and suggest an acceptable way of resolving the disputed measures from the Map of Path. This is a two-way process, this is a question that requires discussion and dialogue, not a mutual discussion of who's guilty, who's not guilty. I propose that we step out of this situation by delaying this item of agenda and debate for the next session, and we assign the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, to be here at our service, to explain to us what Mrs Azra was talking about; probably all the others who applied would like to talk about it and thereby contribute to the way in which this conversation is appropriate in this Parliamentary assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24918	Here, I have immediately reported two replicas. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24919	Mr. Chairman, I would rather say this is business intervention than replica, but I didn't know which way because it's not a regular discussion, and it's going in the direction Mr. Živković was talking about. 52 Look, we received this material in Assembly 9.3., it was placed extraordinaryly as a part of the agenda and I can't really say that I am ready, but we have the Commission's opinion, our committee, which was held yesterday and it came to the Assembly yesterday and we are considering it today. I suggest that we work in a way that we accept the opinion of this committee, and that we conduct the discussion of the material at the next session, especially because of the conclusion of the 2nd Commission's, I don't know, here I have kind of recorded it to myself as important, is it? The last part of this conclusion says: The Joint Commission for European Integration unanimously adopted a conclusion asking the Council of Ministers to explain the reasons for the delays, etc. Since there is no one here, this material, here I personally did not prepare it in a way that I could discuss, I suggest we adopt today, when we put it in this point, to adopt this Commission opinion, and to postpone the material and everything together for the next session. I think that would be most productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24920	Another replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24921	I don't know what it's like, what this is called, what I'm going to say, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24922	I gave my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24923	Of course, but it's not a discussion, I want to mention. First, Mr. Huskić's intervention. We had a debate about the agenda. I don't know if anyone said this morning: we got the material late, the material is large, I haven't been able to read it, etc. So, we've adopted the agenda. We've reached that point of the agenda. I respect Mr. Živković's reasons and arguments, but this is where Mr. Genjac discussed it, I discussed it, and then you ask to postpone the debate on this agenda point. We can just break it off and move on. Right? And correct me if I'm wrong, I mean, I don't know how to get out of this, maybe it's a clumsy and unprepared point today on the agenda, but she's on the agenda. We've adopted the agenda. We started discussing this agenda point. We've already had some discussions. But to best get out, if there's anything that needs to be prolonged, so on and so forth, let's stop the debate, but don't delay the debate on this point, because we've already started the debate. Thank you. Unless you consider me and Mr. Genjac's intervention a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24924	Here, we've got the replica now, we've got the replicas, we've got the line. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24925	We were at an extended college session together, 53.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24926	Please listen to each other, please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24927	We were together at a session of the Enlarged College where we said that the Rules of Procedure were not perfect and that this was a mandatory item of the agenda, but we also agreed to give our group for the creation of a new Rules of Procedure a mandate so that they could not come to an opinion that 24 hours earlier had not come before the session and that it was a practice in the making of a second Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it means that we had to put this item on the agenda, and I also said then that mine would be a proposal, especially if there was no one from the Council of Ministers with whom we could conduct the dialogue, to postpone this debate for the next session. I apologize for being late before Mr. Genjac spoke.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24928	Replica, Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24929	The replica of Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. I also voted for this agenda, thinking that this really is a part of the agenda, not thinking but saying, it's really important and it's good that it came to us even though it's not good that we didn't know by this morning that it's going to be on the agenda today for better preparation, and I guess that's the thing that we'll probably talk about sometime later, and many MPs see that they don't have any material next to them, but they're borrowing from the ones we brought, eventually. But I voted because I thought today would be here on this side where people should sit competent who would be able to answer certain questions that have already been asked from some discussions that would already have been me; here, I would not now enter what I thought I was discussing, I would give up the discussion if it were supported; meaning the replica why I voted for this agenda. But I also suggest that, and businessly, it's possible for us to end this debate today and yes, because this really deserves one more quality debate and deserves that order there to be no empty one, and that's why my proposal to postpone today is too. And if we postpone, I'm giving up the discussion, if not, then I'll discuss it. Thank you very much. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? To stop, to delay the debate or to end the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24931	Please, just a little bit. Please, let me run the session. So when it comes to material, Mr. Huskić said well, 9, today it's 18, so the material when it comes to material, the material is 9. I agree with the opinion, I agree with the lack of a Council of Ministers, 54 motions, I agree that it is very difficult for us to realise the conclusion, the Commission's proposal for a conclusion, the clarifications, etc. I am now asking those who have been reported whether they insist on discussing now or whether we should put to the vote the conclusion that the debate is being postponed and continued.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24932	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24933	Well, of course, I'll give you and the discussion and the replica before I finish. Here, you have special treatment, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24934	Mr. Belkić, don't be rude.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24935	Well, not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24936	By the Rules of Procedure, and turn away from these words, you have none.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24937	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24938	Yours is to lead and respect the Rules of Procedure as well as we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24939	Pick your words, Mr. Denise, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24940	Subtract and you need to subtract the word if that's how you run the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24941	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24942	That's enough, if it's from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24943	Don't say that, please, did you hear yourself say that?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24944	Now let me get back to the replica. When it comes to 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24945	Mr. Bećirović, did you hear yourself say what you said?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24946	Yes, I have heard very much, and I invite you to conduct a session in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24947	Of course, and did you hear yourself say what you said?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24948	I heard you, and I urge you again to hold a session in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24949	And don't, I'll get you out of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24950	Say sorry to the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24951	I'll leave it to you, colleague Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24952	It's rudeness and a matter of rearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24953	When it comes to the replica, Mr. Belkić, you've been harassing the MPs here all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24954	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24955	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24956	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24957	Just allow us what belongs to us in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24959	Thank you. We have a very serious agenda point, we adopted it today on the agenda, and we've all said here very clearly that we're going to discuss this agenda point. The fact that there are no 56 gentlemen from the Council of Ministers who do not seem to be doing their part of the work and does not respect the dignity of this Parliament because respecting someone would be, especially on such an important subject, does not mean that this topic should block the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, before your proposal to postpone this debate, my proposal is that Parliament at least discuss this important issue for ordinary people in this country, and after that debate, we, as Parliament, will probably draw some concrete conclusions, if already the Council of Ministers of BiH will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24960	Mr. Bećirović, did you hear your colleagues' suggestions before you spoke?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24961	I have my own suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24962	So, you have your proposal, but you've heard that there are other suggestions. So there are suggestions for this debate to be postponed, so from several MPs. You think differently, you have the right to express your opinion and then don't accuse me of obstructing the session. I'm not obstructing, I'm giving opportunity to everyone in the same way. So, I'm asking again these people who signed up including you, as far as I saw you were applying for a discussion, are you giving up the discussion? If one of you insists on discussing today, I'll give him my word. If he doesn't insist, we'll put it on the vote to postpone the debate, to continue the debate, so we'll postpone it to continue at the next session. I'm asking the registered debaters if they agree that before they discuss putting this conclusion to the vote. _________(?) I agree. Okay. The others? Mr. Bećirović? Okay. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24965	I'll be very brief, Mr. President. Lately from certain people, even people.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24966	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24967	...who are high-quote, insulted words rudely, liars, bandits, etc. I mean, that's why I'm replicating Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24968	Well, it's a matter of raising, so let it go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24969	Our mothers, our mothers, have learned if you're going to tell someone that you're lying to tell them politely you're wrong or you're not telling them right, always the truth. And whoever acts, who acts rudely and cardinally, let's say when I discuss it, I'll either spit it out or knock it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24970	Mirko Okolić, replica. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24971	Replica to Mr Denis Bećirović when he said: "Don't let us in Parliament block such a very important item of the agenda and debate. I want to fence right away so I don't want to block it. However, I do not have a valid talker today in which I could fully discuss this subject and draw certain conclusions that are important. I'm afraid that's why we won't be able to do what we're supposed to do and not end up doing this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24972	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24973	...is guilty today because we had to postpone this item of the agenda for the next session, etc., because it always respects Parliament for not adopting this and also the law, and no one is asking whether these laws are such a quality that Parliament can adopt. Anyway, so I'm expressing my consent to want to discuss this, but I'm not able to today because I don't have a conversation on the other side, for that reason. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24974	Replica, Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am on several occasions, and I will keep saying this: all the problems of the state are in this House. And all possible solutions can come from here alone. And now to move on to a replica relating to Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this agenda point, I said that the conclusion of our commission is that it wants to hear the Council of Ministers' position why certain actions and measures are not implemented from... Maps of times, because all that we would talk about today could eventually conclude that it obliges the Council of Ministers to speed up and solve these problems that stand in the way here. And again in vain. Here, we don't have again, and that's why it was rational not to lose an hour, but to adopt the proposal immediately, because that's what our commission wants. Careful, they are very and Mr. Genjac, as president, has made a very nice introduction, given a cut of the situation and said that without the Council of Ministers' views on certain issues, those 15 measures, there is no way to move this forward. And so I pray in the future, Mr. Chairman, that when we speak, we are not saying anything to have two council ministers here, as you said, that I would not be pleased then, but we have moved within the limits of what is the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24976	Therefore, the House may also work without the applicant’s presence if it decides, so Article 68. It's not the first time, of course it's not the first time. But here we are, trying to get people here in the House. We haven't secured it, and here's what we're talking about. Here, I still have one replica. Please, whoever has the line, sign up to try and make a statement about this conclusion. Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24977	My intervention is only in the following, so I repeat, I think that we should work exclusively on the Rules of Procedure and allow MPs to speak without any rejections or intrusions. The term is rude, and here it might be better if I used the word inappropriately and if it is, and it seems that it is, so the chairman realized I have the strength to say I apologize for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24978	You don't have to. It's okay. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24979	However, from counterpart Ajanović, it would be good if he behaves in principle and consistently, so that he reacts sharply, not only when it comes to some verbal statements. Here, not only were verbal statements more difficult or less difficult but there were also physical attacks from some MPs, so they did not respond, etc. So you need to be consistent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24980	Is that a replica, what is it, Mr. Bećirović? Azra Hadžiahmetović. Please, please let us keep working. Please keep working. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Is it a replica, Azra?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24981	Mr. Chairman, if Mr. Denis Bećirović apologizes to you, you may not think, or you may consider that he should not apologize to you, but I appreciate that he should apologize to this BiH Parliamentary Assembly for today's incident. And each of us, when he makes an incident of this kind, needs to know that he is violating some of the rules of conduct of the Parliamentary Assembly. By the way, let me also mention what we have already stated in this Parliamentary Assembly and have adopted some principles and rules of conduct. I think that neither Mr Beriz Belkić nor the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly has been attacked here, but among other things, some rule of conduct and the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been violated. So I ask you not to take his apology personally. You can treat it personally. I think he was obliged to apologize to all of us in this room for the way he performed. I'm also taking the opportunity to ask all MPs to reduce a little passion. We have space and areas and topics and beyond this hall that we express our passions, frustrations, motivations, complexes in one way, but let us discuss here with the language of the arguments of the topic. I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24982	Here, I'm kind of going back to the proposal. So we have an initiative of several MPs, or thinking, I will try to interpret, so to discuss this point
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24983	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24984	And you want to talk... before you declare a delay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24985	I just want to say a few sentences. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24986	Well, I mean, you want to discuss it, right? Okay, here you go. Well, here you go, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24987	Mr. Chairman, I think you're making a little nervous here in Parliament. We've only been working three hours today. And by 5:00 we'll be working, if we stop at the 12th point, okay. I don't know, I repeat it as a parrot, I once again said it, two days in a month we're conducting a dialogue. We too have a problem, we see anxiety is very present both with the MPs and in the conduct of the session. I don't know why there's such an atmosphere. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd love to, which is why I'm really avoiding conflicts and you see very rarely reporting to replicas. We have, I've prepared 17 files for 17 agenda points. I don't know how else. I've had enough time for this point of business to prepare myself anyway, prepare the discussion, apply for discussion. I'll agree with my colleagues so much, I'll be collegiate, let me say, here, we'll postpone because of these circumstances, really, and that's where I put the point. I agree so much, here are the others, to postpone, however what is here and said, especially fellow Azra, that the Council of Ministers' relationship, they said, support the plan and have two conclusions. They support the plan and task the institutions to implement, the Council of Ministers said. It would be good to hear that we do not have the strength not to hear, not to spread this discussion, so I will be collegiate, I accept if all those who are listed here, but Husein Nanić has prepared well for this point, and for all points I have prepared the materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24988	Can I do it now? What is it now? No, no, just, please, everyone has their own access to this thing. Sir, people are picking up, please. Here you go. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Please, then be mad at me, it's very hard for me, it's very hard for me to work. I tried one correct way to, it's fair to me, ask people who had already applied for a discussion whether they were giving up, whether they agree or insist on discussing today, and then to decide on the further fate of this debate, but some people appeared, then the replicas went on etc. I can't take the right now, not the Dolić, not the Kalabić, and they're picking up. I don't know, you didn't sign up for these screens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24990	Mr. Chairman, if I may say this isn't a discussion, just help in deciding, since I don't know how they prepared some for the session when... The Council of Ministers did not receive this item of the agenda. That point, as far as I know, was put on the agenda yesterday, with all our dilemmas about what it's going to look like today. And I think, in favour of those who are agreeing to postpone this in some way, the people of the Council of Ministers are not informed of this agenda point today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24991	Oh, Mr. Nanić was talking about his preparations for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24992	I just said this wasn't on the agenda today. This came the way it came. We supported it with these dilemmas and, if it goes in that direction, I don't see any reason why we don't come out this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24993	Rifat Dolić. What about you, Mr. Dolić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24994	Something like Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24995	Something like that, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24996	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I, above all, think that the leadership of this house, the College rightly put this item on the agenda with all these restrictions, because I don't think I should explain what point of the agenda and what importance it is. The other thing is, we have a specific situation here now. First we adopted the agenda, then we opened a discussion on the agenda point, some colleagues discussed it already, and we would now be doing what we are doing. I advocate and support those who say that this debate should be held precisely because of the importance of this agenda. We, if we wait for the Council of Ministers to be here, I'm afraid we'll wait. And then the burden of responsibility we take over here. I advocate that we discuss it, say what we think about this important issue, just so that tomorrow we don't be called by anyone to bear that particular responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24997	Thank you. So, however, I am going to trace these initiatives, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion, assuming that all those who have applied are agreed not to discuss now, but to discuss at the next session when we continue the debate on this agenda point and to provide for the presence of relevant persons from the Council of Ministers who can give answers as proposed on this commission. 62 So, please state the next debate is delayed, i.e. the debate continues on the point, just a little bit, the agenda point 13. The plan of activities to meet the recommendations made by the European Commission on the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the visa regime for BiH citizens continues at the next session, with our next session, a special session, in terms of speciality, because we planned only to consider this one, so at a regular session on April 1st. So please prepare to vote. Vote now! 22 "for" (11 Federation, 11 RS), five "against", without "maintained". With the general and entity majority, I find that this conclusion has been made. So, the debate on this agenda item continues at the April 1st session, under the obligation of the Council of Ministers to attend and what we have talked about here on this agenda point. Let's go, come on in, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24998	First, I would like to give you, Mr. Chairman, and the College my support for holding the session. The second thing must be given a broader explanation. You know that for months you've been running polemics right around the visa regime. The public on their feet, 70% of the youth wants to go abroad. You politicians provide yourself with diplomatic passports, you go here and there. A broader explanation must be given. And please, just because of what we did today and this is good, and I don't want to put any pressure or suggestion at all, but I have to say this now: the Centre of Civil Initiatives that creates public change has already said that this is the worst parliament since the post-war.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u24999	Well, here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25000	Well, please, they're creating, Mr. Belkić. It's not my fault, too. So I know it was held, give a wider explanation, don't tell me what happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25001	So, an explanation, please, so once again, we heard the explanation here. First, people didn't get the Commission's opinion on time. Secondly, there is no proposal, or no Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25002	That's what I'm talking about. There's no one from the Council of Ministers... to blame. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25003	I think it's said, Mr. Jovičić, at least four or five times. So help me, the agenda's closed. Let's go, please, to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a harmonised summary and individual conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission of the Representatives' House and the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the revised audit reports of the BiH financial institution for 2007 So, at the 11th joint session of both homes on January 28th, summary reports by the Finance Commission and the both homes' budget on reports on the financial performance audit of the BiH institutions for 2007. Following the debate, it was concluded that the proposals for conclusions contained in the summary reports of both committees were addressed to these committees, together with the conclusions proposed at the joint session itself and the transcript of the session, that the committees at the joint session also considered the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly to deliver them to a decision; a consistent proposal for conclusions. So, according to this, the Commission for Finance and Budget has implemented the alignment, after which we received from the Finance and Budget Commission, on 27 February 2009, a proposal for harmonised conclusions. So, the conclusions you've got. I'm opening a conclusion debate. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25005	I'll just take a minute. So, the commissions met, and you know that there was a lot of it and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples committees agreed, because there were similar conclusions, so we voted on every conclusion and, which, technically, was more... complete, we were voting for that conclusion. And I think both homes have done this job well, put a lot of work into it. So those conclusions that were on one commission,...the other, because they are. So, we think this should be adopted, and most importantly, we follow the realization that this is all that is proposed to be implemented and in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25006	I don't have any more logs on this agenda. So I'm closing the debate on point 14. 64 Let's go to point 15. Ad. 15. Appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals in the Order of Administrative Law Experts – Proposer: Council of Ministers ... On March 9th, it sent a notice to the Parliamentary Assembly on the conclusion of the ministers adopted at the 79th session, March 5th, to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly that the members of the Office for the Review of Appeals from the Order of Administrative Law experts be appointed Stipe Petričević from the Federation of BiH and remains Kremenović from RS. In addition to this notice, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Commission's work on the implementation of the tender procedure and on the preparation of the list of candidates. So also the biographies of the proposed candidates were delivered. I hope you got all the materials. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25012	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25013	Excuse me, excuse me. I'm sorry. So I skipped the record, point one. The adoption of the minutes from the 47th session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 "for" (23 Federation, 12 RS), without the vote "against", one "abstained". I find that we have adopted a record from the 47th session of the House of Representatives. Let's go to point 3. A statement on the BiH Aviation Law proposal. To remind you, Mr Kalabić offered one conclusion, regardless of what we had, and the way it was done, because we had concluded, we had a final debate, the conclusions are proposed from the debate. Mr. Kalabić insists, so I can put it here to make a statement about this conclusion, so if I should read it to you? _________(?) 66 [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25016	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25017	Thank you very much. Please, so you see, I'm now going to be in a situation to break the Rules of Procedure again, to reopen the debate, etc. But, Mr. Kalabić, I couldn't reach this conclusion. Don't, I mean, if we're going to vote on the law then. We all understand everything, he has every right to refer to this law and this request of yours, to keep it in mind, etc. So please let us go. The conclusion was read. I suggest we make a statement on this conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (14 Federation, RS nine). I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Let's move on. Please prepare to vote on the Air Force Law proposal. Vote now! 34 "for" (Federation 24, RS 10). I find that there are both general and entity majority and I find that we passed the Air Force Bill's proposal in the second reading. Let's go to point 4. Please, Mr. Genjac, please. 67 Let's go to point 4. Declaration on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now! 34 total "for" (24 Federation, 10 RS). I find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority and that the Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services has been adopted. Let's go to point 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions (second reading) Before that, we declare amendments. We have two amendments to Milica Marković. So we're voting on the amendments to Milica Marković. We're voting on amandman I. Milica Marković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 “for, ” 20“ against. ” I find that the amandman I. Milica Marković did not even get the general majority. We're going to make a statement on amandman II.. Milice Marković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 13 “for, ” 19“ against. ” I also agree that amandman II.. Milice Marković did not get the general majority, so it was not adopted. We're going to make a statement on Mr Zorić's amendments. So it's also about two amendments. We're voting on gospodin Zorić's amandman I.. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 "for" (12 Federation, seven RS) 14 "against". I find that amandman I. has received both the general and the entity majority, and is thus adopted. Let's make a statement about amandman II.. gospodin Zorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 "for", (12 Federation and eight RS), 14 "against". I also find that it is amandman II.. gospodin Zorić received both the general and entity majority and thus adopted. We are now declaring ourselves on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in Institutions. 68 [[Common discussion]] Let's move on to the bill, and we'll draw a conclusion. So we're pleading on the bill. Please prepare to vote. Vote for this bill now, and then we have a proposal for two conclusions. 31 "for" (25 Federation, six RS). I find that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in a second reading. We have a statement on the proposals for conclusions left. So we have proposals by Milica Marković and Velimir Jukić. Is there any need for me to read the conclusions? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25020	This was another...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25021	Yeah, second reading, just a little bit. So, the request is... 19 "for", 16 "against", the request does not have two-thirds of the vote "against" from any entity. So I conclude that Sefer Halilović's request for a statement on this law has passed by an urgent procedure. Please prepare to vote on this law. 71 Vote now on amending and supplementing the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH. We're voting on amendments to the law. Here, I already have requests for the vote to happen again. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 "for" (16 Federation, five RS). I agree that amendments and additions to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH were adopted by an urgent procedure, proposed by Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25022	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-18-0.u25023	Wait a minute, I have an intervention. Go ahead. Okay, it's okay. So let's move on. Point 13. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
