ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23918	Please take your seats, we're late. Mr. Križanović, Bahtić! Please take your seats, we're late. Bahtić, Križanović! Bahtić, let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been waiting 10 minutes, so we have a quorum. I suggest we get started. So, I am opening the 46th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I welcome you once again and I find that the sessions, as usual, are present with our invited regular guests. I also welcome the means of information. At this point, we have 24 MPs. The absence was justified by Mr Jovan Todorović, Sadik Ahmetović, Niko Lozančić, Zlatko Lagumdžija. So I repeat, we have a quorum. I hope that the other MPs who are in the Parliament building will join us soon. Although we at the Expansive College yesterday informed club presidents about the activities that the College and the services carry out on the realization of conclusions and your initiatives, here is the shortest way to create a retrospective, namely to try to warn unnecessary issues. So, things are like this. The initiative of Mr Jovičić and Bahtić, which we have accepted, has already been processed in some way, or put into practice. We've requested material from the Council of Ministers... and we'll do everything we can to get it as soon as possible. We're going to have and try to secure a meeting with the College of the Peoples today and discuss the possibilities of joint sessions, although we have a conclusion that if it's not possible, we can do it ourselves. With regard to Mr Bećirović's request for information regarding the arrest of Vjekoslav Vuković, we, unfortunately, only yesterday about 1600 hours have we received this material that the Ministry of Security had done before, but the Council of Ministers has not verified it yet and we only got it yesterday. We have provided you with this information, however it should be on the commission, etc., but here it is now adopted by the Council of Ministers and if you have looked at the accompanying act – Mr Sadović did so, delivered to Parliament by order of the Council, at the conclusion of the Council of Ministers. So it's this information from the Council of Ministers, in line with our conclusion. 2 Regarding the request of the Joint Commission for European Integration and regarding the Progress Report, we have also sent a request for a Report on compliance with the Stabilisation and Priority Agreement of the European Partnership. I informed yesterday that some materials, which are not enough, have been obtained, but that we have to wait for complete materials, and we will also consider it at one of the next sessions. The same thing is with... the proposed point by the Joint Commission on European Integration, so problems implementing the obligations defined by the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. We haven't gotten the material yet, but here we are working on getting it as soon as possible. With regard to Mr Lagumdžija's request for Parliament to consider information regarding the activities carried out in connection with BiH's admission to the Security Council, we also received this information yesterday, so together with the Programme of Activities, which you had previously received, we delivered it here. So that information is also available to you, but we also do not have the Commission's opinion. And we immediately referred this material to this program and the report on the activities so far. About the request, or the initiative of Denis Bećirović, regarding the report on the work, we received the report. I hope you all have received it, and it is addressed to the relevant committees for obtaining opinions and we will consider this report within 30 days of its submission, or its arrival in Parliament. As for Mr. Erić's request, I've made communication with the presidency. They will adopt the Final Account of the Presidency for the past year and will then, in accordance with the constitutional obligation, submit a report on expenditure made in the Bureau. Finally, regarding these previous issues, Parliament's work programme (as we have also received the Council of Ministers' Work Programme and some of your suggestions clubs, commissions, etc.) will be proposed by the end of this month, i.e. presented to the enlarged College. We agreed yesterday to have a serious debate and to have the result of this debate as a realistic, implementing plan of Parliament's work for this year. I would also like to inform you that the College has undertaken certain activities in the context of obtaining Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH relating to the Brcko District; we have established a schedule, or a hodogram by which we will already have an examination of the amendment proposal in the first reading at the next session, on 4 March. After that, the Constitutional Commission will organise a public debate in four cities in co-operation with the Constitutional Commission of the People's House: Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, i.e. five cities, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Brcko and Tuzla. We expect to receive a report from the committee responsible by 16 March and to declare this amendment at a session on 18 March. The College has already sent an amendment to the Constitutional Commission and the Presidency to obtain an opinion. So much for these previous questions and your information. And, uh, a few preliminary notes regarding the draft agenda. 3 Yesterday we held meetings of the House College and the session of the extended College of the House and agreed to take down one item of the agenda and supplementing the earlier proposed agenda for the 46th session. As you noticed, the RTTVBiH report on the work and business for 2007 and on the financial business of RTVBiH for 2007, with the Authorised Auditor's Report, has been removed from the agenda. It's been removed, this point has been removed for procedural reasons, because the competent commissions haven't delivered an opinion on the material. Namely, the commissions refused to engage in the examination of these materials, arguing that these reports were not adopted on the Management Board, which is correct. And the second reason the dom adopted at its 40th session the financial report of RTVBiH on 31.12.2007, with the opinion of the authorised auditor. However, we felt that commissions should give their opinion and the Management Board should give some further clarifications regarding their non-support for the Financial Report submitted by management. So we'll do everything we can to complete it and get back here as soon as possible for consideration. As new items of the agenda that have met the conditions for consideration, the following are: 4. The statement in the second reading on the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement is proposed by Mr Jerko Ivanković, as we have obtained the conditions provided for our conclusion that this law is not being considered until an analysis of the effects of the application of CEFTA is obtained. And that material you got and it's listed under point 17. The 18th agenda, a new one, was included: 'Appointment of the president, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee of Appeals of the Citizens as independent bodies of the BiH police structure'. So it's about supplementing the Ad hoc commission's proposal and in... the spirit of what the College asked them to do and this home. So, they had previously delivered an incomplete report, now with a supplemental report, the thing was circled and there were assumptions that we should make a statement about the proposal. Mr Jerko Ivanković delivered a new Bill on the Protection of Domestic Production yesterday with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. At the same time, he informed us that he was withdrawing his earlier law, which I was now saying made assumptions that we were pleading. However, the College could not withdraw the proposal for that law because, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(2), I quote: 'The Proposer has the right to withdraw the bill until the debate on the first reading bill is concluded.' This law is already in the second reading, i.e. before the plea, and it was not possible. Here, these are notes regarding some previous issues and proposals on the agenda. So, I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23919	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, media and guests representatives, on the basis of Article 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH, I propose that today we supplement the agenda of the 46th session of the House of Representatives with the following point: 'Advising continued attacks on journalists, a journalistic profession, with a special reference to the threat of an independent media report in BiH' 4 with a proposal to include the mentioned point in the agenda, I also submit a proposal for conclusions on this agenda point. I also remind the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives that already a number of lower-level parliaments have discussed this very important topic for the future of BiH and its European path, and that they have shown themselves about the frequent practice of pressure and attacks on the media. I also remind my colleagues that we have received knowledge and have pledged to implement the European Parliament resolution of 23 October last year, which says very clearly that we should stop the practice of pressure on the media in this country. I must say, I expected, given that this has been going on for months, if not longer, that without the intervention of the MPs we will receive some information, first of all from the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Security, but until this moment we have received nothing from the team.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23920	Please listen to me. We're just getting started.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23921	Since we have a very important obligation to react to such things as Parliament and since our silence could be interpreted as approving such procedures, I suggest that we put this on the agenda of today's 46th session and that, through the debate on this agenda, we strongly condemn the frequent attacks on the media. I remind you that it is not just one medium, but that this has become a practice, not only of the Federal TV journalists, several bombings against Independent TV Hayat, the constant threats also posed to BHT journalists, BNTV, Alternative TV, not to mention all the media in BiH that are exposed to continuous and constant pressures. I also believe that in the context of this debate, we should in particular task the Ministry of Security to provide us with one official information on the state of media freedom in BiH and whether there are established threats such as pressures on the media and even death threats. We have been informed of this from a number of contributions, both in electronic and written media, and this Parliament, finally, deserves to receive this information and to take appropriate steps so as not to get the worst marks in the reports and in the European Parliament and other institutions that monitor BiH's progress towards the EU. So, I submit a proposal for conclusions in writing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23922	Thank you. If I see correctly, Azra Alajbegović. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23923	No microphone 5 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23924	It's on the screen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23925	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23926	Okay. I have a report from Jerko Ivanković and Martin Raguž. Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23927	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I am with this motion to withdraw this law, and by delivering a new one, I wanted to fix some technical details in it, but, since it is not businessly possible, it is quite okay to vote today on this law, because it is an appropriate situation in which we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23928	Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23929	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members of the College, MPs, ministers, media representatives, guests, here, I welcome on behalf of the club this way of work that you have today promoted with information and review what has been done and with one dynamic that awaits us. I think it's positive, and that's how we should continue the session today. I informed the presidents of the clubs yesterday at a meeting of the Extended College of the House that I would comply with Article 65. The Rules of Procedure today run for the agenda item entitled 'Invader Information in Pop's field, the Krupa River and the Hut mud area, i.e. in the area of the municipalities of Ravna, Trebinje and Capljina', because I believe, and the public could see reports these days that flood ratios are huge, that the consequences are serious and that, unfortunately, as in most such cases, there is no adequate reaction of competent and relevant institutions and bodies. And not only does there not have an adequate reaction but all the shortcomings and holes in the system and there are no possibilities at all to prevent such situations. So this information was prepared in writing. The proposed conclusions also include all relevant information in the last seven to eight years and activities that have been undertaken and most of them have not been realised. I think it is minimum for this House of Representatives to discuss this information and task the Council of Ministers to actively engage in this process. 6 I will remind you only briefly, as a reason, that the entire project of building these electricity generation accumulations was one of the largest projects in the former Yugoslavia, financed by international credit funds and which, apart from the construction of four hydropower plants (grančarevo and Gorica, Trebinje I, Trebinje II, Plat in the Republic of Croatia and Hydropower Plant Chapljina) and the concreteisation of the largest devastation in Europe, the Trebišice River, aimed at parallel, the same importance, agricultural production and stability of the environment and conditions for human life. Unfortunately, today the total imbalance in this respect and the interests of the commercial and this entire lobby of the power plant have been overcome so that there is no monitoring at all how and how life is, in general, and to what extent it is preserved, in general, this environment and space and to what extent the whole project has far-reaching consequences for both the hydro and the eco-system in which people live and for agricultural production. I think the conclusions and this information are prepared well-founded and responsible and reasoned. And, here I am, as I asked the presidents of the clubs yesterday and the representatives to support the inclusion of this item on the agenda, the debate, and the foundation is to actively involve the Council of Ministers in this problem. It's not enough, obviously, to draw distinctions on the entity line, it can't separate these natural processes and flows, it has to have monitoring on these processes. At the 44th session, we ratified the Treaty on Grant of the Agreement, which received $6m for fair and responsible management of these funds, and it is minimum that BiH and its institutions have insight and, in some ways, assume their share of responsibility for, I will remind you: 500m of water was released per second, and the maximum is 50. It's been working for over a month, flooding thousands of acres. After the war and the devastation, people have been renovating it, and we can't stay, looking cold-bloodedly at all these events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23930	We have reported replicas: Milorad Živković and Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23931	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, I just didn't mean to replicate, this may be more of a proposal to get out of this. The point is proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the materials are there. However, it seems to me that if you open a page concerning the review of the contributions of these materials, you will find that these are only contributions that came from the Federation Government, the Federation Parliament, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the environment and tourism, and that you have no relevant information, nor information that could concern other parts of this problem, mentioned by Mr Raguž, which is that the above horizons are mostly in the RS, and what is called Information from the Government of the RS, the Resord Ministry and the Water Office. And, therefore, I think we need to process this point here in Parliament, talk about it, but in order to be completely missing one piece of material. I suggest we assign our commission. I think that this is the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, although it states here that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is in charge, and therefore our Committee on Foreign Trade... should process it, but I think it is more appropriate for the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development to collect 7 parts of the information and then open this agenda, perhaps at the next session, I have no problem with that. I think this Parliament can also go in the direction of forming a committee that will identify all the problems that are in connection with the flood in Pop's field and we will simply support this kind of resolution of this problem, but I don't think we have complete information today that we can talk about it in quality and that we can make conclusions that are of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23932	Slavko Jovičić has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23933	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23934	Before he checked in, here, before he checked in, Martine.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23935	The esteemed chairman, distinguished guests from NGOs, other institutions, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is a replica on the proposal to include Mr Denis Bećirović's agenda item. I'm not about not to discuss it, but I have to have full information. I speak for myself. If anyone gives support to the media, I do, but we'd need full information. We can't interfere with editorial politics. I'll never interfere. But really, the media is amazing. There's no way, there's no term, there's no abuse they don't use to bring this complicated situation together even more. I'm just going to give you one example. A burning mosque in the Visicians, which I condemn, but no one came out with information on what's going on. A column in the paper: an association that was done by Hrvat and Srbin. There's tension in public and what to do. Is there any term that the press isn't using for us? We just haven't said we came here with automatic rifles and we're killers and we're gonna kill someone. There's no way. With this, I don't want to look for any alibi, or defend any politician, it doesn't come to mind. But I'm asking for full information from our professional services, through those press clippings we're getting, to see what the media is writing. What's the truth? We'll give them support. They have freedom. We're not getting involved. But don't they make the most of the situation more complicated and contribute most to the new expansion of international hatred in all fields? Can one medium, any, or journalist be a police officer, and a prosecutor, and a judge, without any arguments, and all that is written against anyone who thinks of it and doesn't have any responsibility? Of course it'll cause a reaction. Those reactions may not be good. But what is it? We're talking about the causes here, not the consequences. So I wouldn't want us to fall into a new trap, so we can discuss what someone writes, what someone publishes. 8 I say, in my own name, let them write about me what they want, but it is not dominant for this country whether I wear the suit of a foreign company or is “borac“ Travnik (suit “Obama“). Will it contribute to this country? So, the media? We'll give them support, but in a way...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23936	Mr. Jovičić, I'm sorry, what's the replica, who's the coma.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23937	So that this isn't about these attacks.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23938	I have Martin Raguž, too, a replica, if I understand you, Martina, even though you applied for the discussion. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23939	Replication is for Mr. Milorad Živković. I am well-intentioned in this attempt to direct this to the competent commission, but there is no reason why we should not discuss this today. Why? Because this is relevant information from competent institutions which, out of their responsibilities, have reacted in the last eight years to the consequences of what is happening. The consequences, Mr. Živković, are in the Federation space, mostly. And you know, the ecosystem, the floods and that part, people react from that position. I didn't prejudge any responsibility or warning. On the contrary, I asked that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, in cooperation with competent entity bodies, be involved in resolving and resolving these consequences. And my proposal for a conclusion is that within 15 days, the Council of Ministers shall inform the House of Representatives of the overall situation. But looking at the lake new made and playing procedurally now which commission, and not being directed, and today not in charge of the competent bodies, I don't think so. You'll see, read carefully the material, I've been trying to take a balanced approach just for the very reason you're talking about, not to prejudge, because the problem is very complex and believe the problem is with far-reaching consequences. And let's just as the Dom run things towards the Council of Ministers, it's our responsibility. Look here at the decisions of the Council of Ministers, not only of the Federation, in 2004, where the then Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations was tasked with the basis of the expert commission's report, which consisted of representatives of the ministries of both entities. So these are professional analyses and don't do it this way today because it's not intended to switch ping-pong balls. The intention is to respond adequately, in accordance with what's going on there and show that we can as humans, not only as humans, I personally represent that constituency, I have responsibility as a representative here. I ask that others be launched, because... they received a mandate based on the legitimacy of this home, and the Council of Ministers, no reaction I've seen from the Council of Ministers in a month, I don't know why. I'm not calling anyone, I'm asking them to report this home to you within 15 days, and then we can make some extra conclusions. But please support to make it happen. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23940	Milorad Živković has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23941	Thank you. I would like to remind you that it was we who supported this unambiguous support of the ratification of the Grant Treaty (the regulation of the flow in that part). Some of the RS, who come from that part, have made fierce remarks about our support in this regard. And today we've given our support to open this topic and we haven't made any remarks on the kind of topic that we need to talk about here. We just said it would be good to have more information, because I know there was a flood in Pop's field and a section on RS territory. We've seen it from the press and the TV feed, but I don't have the information that you've had problems with, who's responsible for who's responsible for it, and I need information and other parts of BiH, from the RS institutions, so I can talk about this matter in quality. I have one piece of material, I don't have another piece of material. The conclusions that are proposed here, including the National Assembly of the RS, treat water laws, require other information. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't discuss it at session 18. In the meantime, let's collect another piece of material and discuss it. That was the purpose of my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23942	Here, finally, Husein Nanić, discussion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23943	I thank you, Chairman. Members of the Council of Ministers, guests, here, I wanted, indeed, to praise the same opening remarks that the chairman said about the state of certain initiatives, the activities of us MPs and the College of the House. What I called in today is... this document that we got on the table here, I'm trying to find it, whether it's in the agenda to discuss it or not. And what really confuses me is that we are getting a document called the BiH Operational Programme for Agriculture, Food and Rural Development for the period 2008-2011. I can't get any information on whose file this is. Is that the Council of Ministers, is that Parliament, is that some kind of ministry? What do we do with this document? In addition, I had... sides, among them are a dozen sides completely empty, unfulfilled, and often it happens to me to postpone or discard some documents or I don't know what, then it turns out that they were needed for discussion. For this reason, here I would like to refer one of my appeals to get the documents quality prepared by the competent institutions to know where to put and how to prepare for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23944	Mr. Nanić, I owe you an apology, I failed to say that directly before the session of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations I received this material and 10 requests to be placed on your benches, in the context of the agenda points that are sitting today around this point of Mr. Lijanović and the tariff and this report on CEFTA. So this material has a connection, a direct link to today's agenda. However, I have made a failure to warn you of that. And these technical remarks if the material is not complete, I can only, so to speak, forward them to the gentlemen who delivered me this material and warn them to make sure that the materials are correct. Here's another apology. I still have a report for the replica, and that's Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23945	I don't think it's a good idea if a message goes out of this session of Parliament that we say that the media is spreading nationalist hatred, that they're creating a negative picture, that they're guilty of everything and everything in this country. My suggestion is that we don't hide some of the facts that are obvious in this country. We now have a situation where individual journalists in this country are threatened with death. We have a situation where certain TV houses are being dropped. We can close our eyes on those facts, and we can face those facts. So what I'm saying is that it would be good for us to finally react once in a while. It's February 18th. I know the parliamentary majority here can refuse this. But it won't be good if we even refuse and discuss it, and that maybe...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23946	Excuse me, Mr. Bećirović, who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23947	It's a replica to Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23948	They are not Parliament's views.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23949	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23950	You say that Parliament will send some messages, not Parliament's views, we will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23951	Well, Mr. Jovičić is an MP in this House. Since he was talking about it, I'd like to say it would be a good idea if in time we didn't respond that, perhaps, some journalist would pay with his head, and then be a sensation in the European frameworks. I think it would be good for us to react once before time, see what's going on, how serious it is and to encourage media freedoms in this country. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23952	Discussion, Jozo Križanović. Excuse me, Mr. Križanović. Here, at the last minute, Jovičić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23953	The Honorable Chairman! Either Mr Bećirović didn't understand me or I'll just repeat two sentences. First I condemn the attack on every journalist, but we need full information, first of all from the Minister of Security. What journalists and houses were looking for protection from the SIPA, for example, so their lives were at stake? That we know exactly who the pressure is on and who it's on. I can't read in some press if I'm a journalist telling myself someone's putting pressure on him. And I got 30 threatening messages a day, so no one was protecting me. But to see all the information. I repeat, I first condemn the attack on journalists and we must give them complete security, not Parliament, but our institutions, the SIPA, the Ministry of Security. So, I want full information to see where the problem is. And when I talk about it, I repeat, I don't interfere with editorial politics, but it's a huge problem if a journalist is in his column, not waiting for any information, as soon as he hears the attack – here's an eclative example, I condemn the attack on the mosque, on the church, on the synagogue, on everything – but not waiting for anyone to write a column that the criminals did this. And you know who he's associated with. Later, it turns out the other guy did it. What's more than public harassment? That's what I was talking about. And I repeat another sentence - I condemn every attack on every man, especially the press and freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23954	So, I'm asking you really not to conduct a discussion through the replicas. Wait until we determine the agenda point, so there will be opportunities, you can state arguments for and against, but leave something for discussion. Here's a replica. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23955	Here's the chairman, I called this my call a replica. I don't know how else to do it because there's no business, or technical possibility. If fellow Jovičić supports the condemnation of the attack on journalists, as proposed by counterpart Bećirović, I see no reflection at all. Neither did counterpart Bećirović here suggest that we discuss the editorial policies of individual media, nor is it here to find that some journalists deserve attacks, as you say, a colleague of Jovičić, in his discussion. But not to open the debate, the point is proposed as considering the attack. I think the proposer will agree, given the content of his 5th conclusion that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Security to provide information for consideration within 15 days, so it would be good if we could adopt at today's session... these conclusions proposed by counterpart Bećirović, not as a point of consideration, but perhaps as a proposal for a conclusion on 12 attacks on journalists, and the consideration will follow when we get the information. I don't see any reason to tell me otherwise, because there's really no different approach here on the proposal initiative, and I'm not sure if there's anyone in this House who wouldn't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23956	Discussion, Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23958	I have a discussion, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23959	Well, here's what you can discuss, everyone. It's not a problem. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23960	Here's a very short one. I would like to support my colleague Raguž's proposal to discuss this information today about the floods in Hutt's mud. You see, my colleague Živković's remarks that we have no information from the relevant RS authorities, I don't think it's important right now. It's important that we have a huge problem, that we have enormous damage and possibly even greater consequences than they did. And that is what I think is important today and requires urgent intervention, i.e. involving the Council of Ministers in cooperation with the competent authorities of the Federation and of the RS, to very seriously approach this solution. So today, we are not going to go into an expert problem analysis, but we are seeing the seriousness of the problem and we are looking for a solution for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23961	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. So we have proposals from MP Bećirović and Ambassador Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23962	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23963	The SNSD club wants a 10-minute break. 13 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Please take your seats so we can start working. Are you listening to me? Hello, take your seats. Mr. Kalabić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for this little longer break than we planned, but we did some consulting on the vote and I think we reached some agreement on the draft agenda point proposed by Mr. Raguž, which was the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23966	There have been conditions to state our proposals. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23967	I suggested the agenda point, which reads: "Advising continued attacks on journalists and a journalistic profession, with a special reference to the threat of an independent media reporting in BiH." As a promoter of this point, I would like to say that this suggestion of colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović is acceptable to me, so I propose a slight change in the formulation. So, I suggest that the point bear the title: 'A consideration of the conclusions regarding the continuing attacks...' (still goes as it stands in text). Here, I accept that suggestion and as a pronoun, I now propose a precise formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23968	So, I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Let's go out on a proposal for a agenda point proposed by Denis Bećirović, which reads: "A consideration of the conclusions regarding continued attacks on journalists and the press profession, with a special reference to the threat of independent media reporting in BiH"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23969	It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23970	Yes, the proposal for a conclusion, I said, so considering the proposal for a conclusion... So, please, I think it's all clear. 14 Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! "For" voted 24 (20 Federations, four RS). We don't have enough entity majority. Unfortunately, we do not have the possibility of an agreement, Mr. Lozančić is absent for legitimate reasons. We will subsequently carry out the alignment and, if we agree, that point would be at the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23971	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23972	Mr. Bećirović, you'll get, of course, as always. You don't have to, you'll get what you always get. Please, we still have a proposal on the agenda that MP Martin Raguž suggested. I think you have materials. So it's about information about floods in Pop's field, the Krupa River and Hut's mud area, with a proposal for conclusions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" voted 28, with a sufficient entity majority and I agree that Martin Raguž's proposal was accepted to include this point in today's session of the agenda. Now we'll see where to position her. So behind the point, that is, this would be the new point of the 19th, with this so far moving to 20. In this way we have established the agenda and allow the minutes to work, to read the established 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 45th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 4. Statement in the second reading on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer Jerko Ivanković; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by MP Adem Huskić (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on the Post Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading); 15 9. Proposal for a Law on Weapons, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH; 11. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on internal and maritime navigation (first reading); 12. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions (first reading); 13. Report from the Commission from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund (first reading); 14. Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration on the debate on the Information of the Presidential Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH; 15. Financial Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on 31.12.2006 and 31/12/2007, with Opinion of the Authorised Auditor; 16. Report by the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the audit carried out of the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007; 17. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the CEFTA Programme, with an analysis of BiH's external trade in 2008; 18. The appointment of the president, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH Police Structure – Proposal for an Ad hoc Board of Appeals of Citizens; 19. Information on floods in Pop's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area, with a proposal for conclusions; 20. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on visa waivers, c) the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – "Corridor Vc Project", d) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Government of Montenegro on Cooperation in the Area of Culture, g) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia, f) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the Area of Culture, g) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on the return and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal and the Protocol between the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on the Security of the Republic of BiH and the European Union's Security and the Security of the European Union on the Security of the European Union, the Security of the Council and the European Union's Security of the Council, the European Union, the European Union and the European Union, the European Union's Security of Peace Agreement, the European Union and the European Union and the European Union's implementation of the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Union, the European Union and the European Union, the Council, the European Union and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the European Union, the Council, the European Union, the Council, the Council and the European Union, the Council, the Council and the Council and the European Council and the European Union, the Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the Council, the European Council, the Council and the European Council, the Council and the European Council, the Council, the Council and the Council and the European Council and the Council, the European Council, the Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the Council and the European Council, the Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the European Council, the Council, We're on our way to realising this agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 45th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23976	Gentlemen, chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I, meanwhile, received answers to three parliamentary questions. I would like to thank the Minister of Civil Affairs and Home Management for the two expeditional answers I am pleased with. I must comment on the response that I received through the Council of Ministers from the Cantonal Court in Bihac, signed by the President of the Cantonal Court, Edina Arnautović, which refers to a legal stand for the strange delay in the execution of the sentence for Abdić Hamdi, so-called. The tiger, on three occasions and the actions the judiciary is taking to refer to the execution of a two-and-a-half-year prison sentence, Pivić Emina from Bihac, reportedly on the run. 17 With the answer I am not only dissatisfied but also disappointed, although nothing better can be expected from such judgment. In response to the question raised, the President of the Cantonal Court of Bihaq is trying to teach me about the Law on criminal sanctions in the Federation, which defines the conditions and reasons for the delay of the execution of the sentence. Instead, I would have been more pleased if the President of the Cantonal Court in Bihaq had replied whether it was usual for the Municipal Court in Bihaq three times to reject requests for the suspension of the sentence, and the Cantonal Court approved the request three times in the second-degree procedure. Is it a practice in the judiciary that the execution of a prison sentence for serious crimes is delayed with the reason that going to a prison sentence would cause damage in a business condemned, or that delaying justice to medical findings in which a convicted medical treatment for cardiac disorders can also be given in prison? As for the alleged fugitive murderer and criminal Emin Pivić, who for more than two years has avoided going to prison for two and a half years, I am sure that the court and police in Bihac... would have the will to have Emin Pivić in an hour on his way to Zenica. Instead of a hypocritical criminal law lesson, I recommend that the presidents of the Cantonal Court in Bihaq be more interested in a recent raid, which, according to an anonymous tip, has recently been carried out in the area of Bihaq by federal MUP and the Judicial Police. Instead of allegedly seen by Emin Pivić, several of his friends were found in the house with an on-line radio camera whose operating frequency happened to be the same as she on the device of some influential Cantonal MUP officials. I'm not asking to renew the issue, but I had to say that the answer to this question and the specific case of Hamdia Abdić, so-called. Tiger, and Emina Pivić, one of the great reasons why justice, despite good status, is running away from more and more judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23977	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23978	Well, I am not satisfied with the answer to my asked question to the Council of Ministers at the 39th session, which reads: "What is the Council of Ministers doing to fulfil its obligations within the deadline provided for by law, by selecting and filling the seats in the management, management, administrative and supervisory boards of BiH institutions?" The answer is as general as the question, however, even more general. And in fact, this question doesn't have to and isn't intended to be precise, but it's also wide enough to be very clear, and I haven't even listed an institution here, and at least a dozen can be listed. And today, there are currently at least a dozen institutions in which the completion is not carried out in time, resulting in the poor functioning of these institutions. And that's the main problem. And I think that if the Council of Ministers refers to that obligation, in the way that it responded to me, then I think that there will still be time and that it will have permanently unfulfilled important and most important places in some BiH institutions, and there are 60 times a few, so there are at least a few hundred positions. I think the Council of Ministers needs this issue and the problem, and I would say, with more feelings, needs and responsibilities than ever before. I can quote now, like this... at least five-six institutions, but here I don't want to single out any of them. And I think that here's the answer, but that the 18 Council of Ministers should still update these jobs and very, very important tasks, because they're not the people in the institutions that expired their mandate, and then they're no longer, they have no legal obligation, no right to do any work. And all the things where we don't have management and management, that is, boards of directors and supervisors, the big question is how they can function.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23979	Sadik Bahtić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23980	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23981	Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23982	The Honorable Chairman, I, unfortunately, have learned from you only that I have received an answer. Now I was able to look at the answer and I would retain the right to comment on it at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23983	This is not businessly possible, but here we will see, Mr. Suljkanović, the comments on the issues that have come to this session are now. But here, if there are no mistakes, Branko Dokić. Is it a comment, Mr. Dokić?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23984	Well, actually, I don't have a comment, Mr. Chairman, but I want to express my protest because I don't get answers to the questions I've asked. There's more, but next time I'll prepare it. But now I want to point out the irresponsibility of Minister Alkalaj and the Council of Ministers, which has not answered the question of the problem created about visas for the citizens of Russia, the Russian Federation. It has been over a month, the issue has been very current, a kind of diplomatic scandal has been made, and I cannot understand that the resolution ministry has not been granted so that one answer to this parliament, because the answer is not only for the MP, but for the whole Parliament. So, I'm protesting that, and next time I'm going to prepare again all those questions that I haven't gotten an answer for in the past half of the year.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23985	I'm sorry, Mr. Dokić, that we don't have anyone from the State Department who could possibly give you information. But here, I'm informing you that we're going to urinate on the answer to your question regarding this area you mentioned. 19 So I don’t see any more registered comments. As I understood Mr. Bahtić, he applied for parliamentary questions. This is how we move on to new parliamentary issues. Please sign in. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23986	Thank you. I have one parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers. 'Who and when was established by the Commission for State Property: a) To whom is the Commission for State Property responsible for its work? What are the tasks of the Commission for State Property, and how does the Commission submit its work report? (b) Why did the Council of Ministers violate the Decision appointing the members of the Commission by concluding at the 6th Thematic Session, held on 13.11.2008, by which the Council of Ministers tasked the Commission to prepare and deliver draft laws on the following principles: - that the state-owned immovable property needed for the work of state institutions, including foreseeable immovable and mobile military assets, - that the remaining assets as well as unspective military assets be owned by the entity, i.e. canton and municipalities, in accordance with the needs of entities, cantons and municipal institutions. In fact, this commission, as an expert body, was tasked with offering the Council of Ministers criteria, not the Council of Ministers to propose them to this committee, as it was done with the Council of Ministers' conclusion, which puts a rough political pressure on the expert group to act in accordance with the political wishes of certain political leaders and violates a fundamental decision on the establishment and tasks of the Commission for State Property. (c) Why did the Commission not start with a list of the total state property because it is their primary task under the Decision establishing the Commission (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No. 10/05), as set out in Article 1, Article 2(c) of that decision? And d) Why does the chair of the Commission, Mr Kutleša, abuse its position and relations with the Commission's quorum, without the Commission's quorum in which Dževad Delić is tasked to prepare the form and criteria for the list of state assets, when Mr Delić is not even a legitimate member of the Commission, because, meanwhile, he is from the Federal Board for Geodetic and Property Affairs, from where he was appointed to the Commission, passed over and employed in the General Secretariat as a subordinate to Mr Kutleša?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23987	Halid the Genjac. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23988	Thank you. Dear President, I have one question to ask the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: 'Why does the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which should protect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, exercise anti-constitutional practice, that is, why does the Constitutional Court work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which has anti-constitutional provisions? When will the Constitutional Court bring its Rules of Procedure in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and what will happen to the decisions taken in this court under the anti-constitutional procedure?" Reason: The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has defined that the votes of the two judges are sufficient to declare a question of national interest at the Council of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this court, which is obliged to protect the Constitution, is acting unconstitutional, because in its Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Court has installed a provision that requires a two-thirds majority of judges to make decisions declaring a matter of national interest. Since it is an extremely important institution, it is clear that this practice of the RS Constitutional Court is drastically derrogated by the Dayton Peace Agreement and its basic principle of the consistency of Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak and others and their equality across BiH territory.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23989	Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23990	My question is to the Council of Ministers, which refers to the crisis and recession that has affected the whole world, and I particularly refer to countries and governments in the environment that have already taken up some questions on this issue and formulate the following question: 'a) Does BiH’s economy intend to take the Council of Ministers to ease the recession and crisis that has affected the whole world? ( b) Are tax rates reduced? c) What is the VAT inflow in January and February of this year compared to January and February 2008. the year?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23991	Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23992	I thank you, Chairman. I want to ask two parliamentary questions today and it concerns the government of the Federation, namely the first question of the Federal Minister at the Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry and the management of BH Gaza d.o.o. Sarajevo. 21 The government of the UN-Sancanton, with its expressed interest in the municipalities of Unsko-San canton, launched an initiative to gasify the canton several years ago. Given the current energy situation with our country's gas supply and the government's readiness and municipalities, I'm asking the minister and management of BH Gasa d.o.o. Sarajevo: 'Have you received an official request, an initiative to launch the Gasification Project, what have you done so far and what will you do to update and initiate the process and the realization of the initiative?' The second question, also, to this ministry, the Federal Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry and the director of the Federal Privatisation Agency. The Federation government signed a contract with the Croatian-Hungarian consortium INA-MOL in September 2006 for the capitalisation of the "Energopetrol", which received 67% of the company's ownership structure, "Energopetrol". The contract obliged, among other things, four of the most important items: to keep all 1,059 workers for a period of three years, to invest 150 million marks in that period, to settle debts of 60 million and to pay 10 million in the name of the right to capitalise. What we have today after two and a half years of signing the contract is that there are less than two hundred workers left in this consortium, meaning that 200 workers are out of work, investments are not seen, and should already be invested over 100 million and the company is operating with losses in the last year, according to data, about 10 million marks. Despite the obligation for the investor, if he does not respect the contractual obligations, to provide the bank's guarantee of 7 million marks, the government did not activate the guarantee, nor, as provided for in the contract, was the independent auditory house that was to determine whether the first investment year was respected, and the third one is already at large. I ask the question, therefore, to the Minister and Director of the Federal Privatisation Agency: 'Is the realisation of commitments under the Energopetrol Capitalisation Treaty and what has the Government and the Agency done and what will they do to ensure that this contract is fully respected?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23993	Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23994	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one parliamentary question and I ask for a minute of tolerance to explain the question. The question is the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23995	You don't need to, I mean, the Rules of Procedure made it clear that you have 3 minutes, that's enough, really. It's a matter of clear wording, but here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23996	The question of the BiH Council of Ministers is: 'What are the reasons why the Council of Ministers has not reached its conclusion today since 14.7.2008, which reads: - The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing, within 30 days, and providing the House of Representatives with information on the state and status of state, business and citizens of BiH in the countries that have been disintegrated by the former SFRY, with a plan of activity on its protection and takeover from legal owners? And do you feel, as the head man of the Council of Ministers, directly responsible for the damages caused by the illegal takeover of the assets of Agromerca in the Republic of Croatia worth 5 million marks due to the failure to take the necessary actions of the Council of Ministers and BiH institutions in its protection?" I would like to inform BiH's home and public that in December of last year, Agrokomerc, its shareholders and the BiH state lost 206m of business space in Split, worth a million KM, and yesterday in Zagreb, in the business tower "Zagrepcanka", without 456m2 of business space, worth around 4m marks. I am responsibly saying that this property of Agrommerac, its shareholders and states have been kidnapped in an illegal and criminal manner, and for this, in addition to the joint criminals in Agrommerc and Croatia, has been responsible and the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs, who, after countless concrete warnings and appeals, have done nothing to prevent this kidnapping, although they had influential diplomatic mechanisms for this. For limited time, I must remind myself of at least a tenth of the parliamentary issues, the initiatives and the appeals I have filed in this direction, in this House, and therefore I have received mostly the support of the MPs of this House, which obviously was not enough for the competent institutions to take whatever it takes to prevent this kidnapping. I'll remind you of the request of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj of the 2nd. 4. to send protest notes to the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia for actions in the illegal acquisition of BiH's assets in these countries. Minister Alkalaj informed me in writing that he sent a protest note to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that there is no reason to refer the same to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The result of such a selective and biased relationship is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has temporarily annulled tenders for the sale of BiH's assets, and in the Republic of Croatia, as you can see, the kidnapping of BiH's assets has continued. I will also remind you that in the specific case of the property "Agrokomerac" in Split and Zagreb it is a mafia business in which Astra Grimeks d.d. Councils with the help of the management of “Agrokomerac“ and the lawyer Tabaković Sead from Zagreb without any legal basis have so far reached the property of “AgroComerca” worth about 5 million KM. I would also like to inform this house as an MP, after all, because of the damage caused by the state of BiH and the shareholders of Agrokomerac“ and because of my conscience before the BiH competent court, I will file criminal charges against the management of Agrokomerac and for failing to take action to protect the property in question and against the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers Nikola Špirić and Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj. I ask the Ministry of the House and the Secretariat of the House to forward all my parliamentary questions and initiatives concerning the requirements for the protection of the assets of Agrokomerac in the Republic of Croatia to the State's attorney for the evaluation. And I am also available for all additional information and possibly necessary documentation. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23997	Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23998	I have two parliamentary questions, I'll be very brief. At the 24th session of the House of Representatives, I proposed an initiative that was adopted and which obliged the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver the text 'Strategy for Combating Corruption and Crime in BiH'. I remind you, Parliament adopted the initiative on 13 February 2008. Here, therefore, it has been more than a year, we have committed as Parliament of the Council of Ministers to deliver to us within three months of this initiative, until now nothing has been done, or has been delivered to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, and the Strategy for the fight against crime and corruption in force for the period 2006. - It expired in 2009. My question to the Council of Ministers: "Why don't you respect the decision of the BiH Parliament, or the House of Representatives?" Second question. At the 41st session, held on 3 December 2008, I proposed a conclusion which was also adopted by the House of Representatives, which refers to the obligation to submit the Action Plan on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as concluded, no later than seven days after which the House of Representatives will adopt its work programme on this issue. Again a question for the Council of Ministers: "Why didn't you honor this conclusion of the House of Representatives?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u23999	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24000	My question was addressed to Mr Sven Alkalaj, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Sven Alkalaj, "What is the BiH Foreign Minister, Mr Sven Alkalaj, doing, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, to balance the national structure of employees and executives in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including employees in the DKP network?" Reason: It is known that there are no personnel from the Croatian people's order at all in the foreign ministry of BiH's most important leadership positions. A major imbalance at the expense of Croatian people's employees is particularly expressed both in the leadership positions and in the total number of employees in this ministry, especially in the DKP network. In the term of the current minister, Mr Sven Alkalaj, this expressed imbalance has increased further to the detriment of the constituent 24 Croatian people. We here often talk about this counting, non-counting, etc. And I say that we don't need to replay and count every day, but when the situation on this issue comes to that extent that when it looks, it draws a line, so you see a very pronounced imbalance, then we really need to ask the question of responsibility for those who don't count, and as it doesn't matter, they make such a situation. Of the top four or five people in this ministry, none is Croatian nationality. I don't think that's good, and it's not acceptable. I think it's the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, especially the Secretary-General. And I don't really know, I wish no one should ever, especially me, ask a question like this again. Indeed, and the BiH Constitution, however imperfect, has regulated this issue in one correct way, so he said that the institution must be implemented, so not in a particular position, etc., but a total in the institution as such to make that balance. And I think it's really everybody's responsibility. And I'm going to repeat here, maybe I'm subjective, but especially to that people who are the smallest of numbers, these are very sensitive things, very sensitive issues and I would really like to appeal that this is being taken care of, because when it's around here, come on, but here it's a very significant debate that needs to be removed very quickly, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24001	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24002	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short question for Minister Sadović: 'Will he also benefit from the knowledge we heard at a two-day seminar organised by the OSCE on security policy in BiH, and is it related to the conclusions of this two-day seminar? So will it benefit and how will it benefit, given my subjective impression that there was an unforgivable little security officer at this seminar?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24003	I have a reported Martin Raguž on my screen. Obviously, there's been some mistake. I don't have any more reports, I'm closing parliamentary questions. And once again, I appeal to no one in particular, the parliamentary question is the question, so really don't use it for observation, discussion, etc., so refrain and go with questions and we'll work more rationally and we'll spend better time. I'm thanking you. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Tariff Act 25 A little reminder. Adopted at the 44th session in the first reading. You received the report on February 16th. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law with one amendment that became an integral part of the Bill proposal and the Commission also noted in the Report, it proposed to the House for adoption and conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers is required to submit within 15 days the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act according to the needs of bh. the economy. At this plenary stage, we had no amendments. So, I'm opening a debate on this law in the second reading. Here you go. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, of course, and the media, I thought that someone from the Commission would explain a little about how this law came into second reading at all. In fact, last time, when we adopted the law in the first reading, we adopted, on a proposal from the Commission, which also unanimously adopted, 'the conclusion that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is in charge of making a list of products according to the needs and', that I am not reading any further, 'the list listed to be delivered at the latest until the review of the law in the second reading'. This is the conclusion adopted by this House on a proposal from the Commission. The Commission has broken the conclusion of the House, not only its conclusion but also the conclusion of the House of Representatives, by accepting this law in the second reading, and forgetting that the condition for this delivery of these lists is, in other words, a group of amendments that would complete and at least improve the situation with the Customs Tariff Act. But apparently, this law is much sweeter than it seemed in our first reading, even when we said unanimously that we would not support the law under Article 127, because we wanted to act in amendment. Otherwise, I don't see why we didn't support him if we don't have any amendments today. I must say that if this Parliament adopts this law – then it can also adopt any law. I don't see that there's anything we can't adopt after this. If read and entered into the text of the law, and I didn't write the amendments because we had just reached the conclusion that someone was going to prepare that list for us on the basis of which the amendments would be written. So someone who won't, as I could now write some figures here, but it'll be someone who has a clear enough view and facts and arguments that it can write here. Last time I said the only figures here were the tariff mark, the amount and rate of customs zero. I guess they don't even need other numbers to be seen, the other ones don't see each other here, which is why the law is on the agenda. I am very familiar with the style of writing arguments, since I have known many colleagues in Parliament for a long time, so I am very familiar with the way the reasoning is written. But not getting into it, of course, not even slowing down the need for this, but slowing down that only this is necessary, I have to say that there is a series of illogicalities in the text. It is common so far that we have received an opinion on the harmonisation of the law with European legislation as a special paper of the Directorate. And it's happened to us with all and one legal project so far. Only here 26 promoters immediately let us know that it is in agreement with EU regulations, I guess there is no need then to go to the Directorate when he says so and the Directorate has no need to declare it, because it is not disputed that it is so if the Proposer wrote so. It is not true that this law does not require specific implementing rules. We passed a quota law here a few years ago, we remember well how many regulations had to be passed after that to prevent abuses, and in the end here, in a report, we realized that they had not prevented abuses. And what you could at least expect is that based on this experience, it is now prevented in this bill that we don't have to get reports like then that will define, here, that we haven't succeeded in what we thought. I think I'm saying something we all know that doesn't have any effect, but I can't help but vote against just voting against it. I seem to have a need to explain why I'm against this, which is why last time I was in favour, in my first reading, with, of course, the conclusion that this list should be completed. Some story about how we're going to pass this law, and then we're going to do analysis for other products is more than transparent and, I'd say, I really couldn't get past at least not with me as far as this law is concerned. But, of course, the promoter, I suppose, has provided the majority for this law, and I congratulate him on that majority, and I repeat that there is nothing after this that we cannot adopt here. Depends on who's proposing and who's lobbying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24006	Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24007	The Honorable Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24008	V.D. the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24009	I'll say a few sentences first. Yeah, I mean, that's where my club set up, 'cause he should have solved this question a long time ago. This belongs to the SNSD, and he should have done it. I don't know if I'm d., temporary chairman, no chairman, I'm signing something. I'm not asking it to be for me, it belongs to the SNSD, let my club determine who's gonna be there and Mrs. Rajilić's new colleague came in, I don't know what she's going to be redistributing, but let's fill in that place. But let me get back to this. So, and because of the stenogram that only remains permanent documentation, I want to read this report. That we held a session at the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission of the House of Representatives, following the conclusion of the House of Representatives, on 16 February 2009 and with the presence of the legislator and the amendment promoter (there were two amendments, Mr Šemsudin Mehmedović and Mr Mehmed Suljkanović), we discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, and today we submit the following report to the House of Representatives. 27 So, 'A report on the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act. The BiH Council of Ministers sent the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 25 December 2008 with a proposal for an urgent procedure under Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. At its 43rd session, held on 29 December 2008, the House of Representatives did not actually accept the request for an examination of the proposal for an emergency procedure and decided... that this law should be considered under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives at the 44th session, held on 21 January 2009, adopted the Proposal for a Law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act in the first reading with the following conclusion: The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH is tasked to, in co-operation with the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH, make up a list of products according to the needs of both other producers and processors in the field of agricultural production and metal and textile industry, etc. which have the need to obtain relief for the payment of customs duties for imports, without paying customs duty on imports of certain raw materials quotas with a view to fostering the competitiveness of domestic production. That list shall be submitted at the latest until the examination of the law in the second reading.’ I'll go Vratić to this to support what Mr. Novaković was saying, but I'll give you an explanation. So, I continue the text in the report: 'The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations delivered the list of products made up to the Commission on 13 February 2009 according to the needs of manufacturers and producers in the area of the meditrerading and textile industry, as well as agricultural production. The Commission found that amendments to the proposed text of the law were sent in good time by Šemsudin Mehmedović and Mehmed Suljkanović and the proposed amendments concern the amendment to the second row in column 2 of the remaining conditions and added additions to the law. Following the debate, the Commission members adopted the following amendment, which reads: The amendment and the Council of Ministers of BiH will repeat the fixed quotas for this tariff mark twice during the calendar year, so on this one only, if these are sought by companies that have the capacity to process this product installed in BiH and if the product in question cannot be provided at acceptable prices on the domestic market. The Commission also adopted the following conclusion, which reads: It requires the BiH Council of Ministers to submit within 15 days a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act according to the needs of bh. the economy. Pursuant to Article 111(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the amendment adopted becomes an integral part of the bill. Most of the votes were adopted by the Commission by the draft law with the amendment adopted, and proposed that the House of Representatives adopt the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act with the Commission's adopted conclusion." And this down on the basis of Article 113. Rules of Procedure. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24010	I didn't mean to interrupt you, Mr. Jovičić, I didn't want to interrupt you, so we got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24011	I'm asking for a stenogram and for this kind of discussion right now I want to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24012	Your commission's report on the document... Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24013	So that's it, but let me say now what Mr. Novaković was saying. So we have received from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations a proposal of 48 tariff numbers that should also be found in the parliamentary procedure, because it is economic capacities that cannot provide raw materials or machinery on the domestic market, but are forced to import it. We couldn't prepare this for today's session for the simple reason that only for this sugar-based tariff number did we have full consent and the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, so all those in the chain who need to give an opinion. And for this list of 48 tariff numbers, not for that session, not for today's session of the House of Representatives, we couldn't suggest, because we don't have an opinion of the Direct Taxation Board, which is the first to give consent to that principle – what we get on the bridge, what we lose on the chalice. And we asked, and today I signed to get someone out of the drawer as soon as possible to see about those excises and about these tariff numbers what to do to make it easier for our economy to try and save ourselves as much as we can in this crisis. So, Mr. Novaković, I support what you said, it was the conclusion of this home, but I'm also telling you that for justifiable reasons we couldn't prepare it because it's, I repeat, about 48 tariff numbers that deserve all the attention. You know that we were at the last first reading when we had one tariff number – how long we were held back and what was the problem, but there we had full agreement both with the Ministry and the Council of Ministers and all. We didn't have this, but here we are, if Dom supports it, and we suggested that it be done as soon as possible, because it's about the leather industry, it's about the textile industry, so those producers that are currently at risk, where we really expect that there are going to be a huge number of workers being fired and we're not going to get into that adventure, so we're going to solve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24014	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić, for further information. I have a report of Mr. Novaković, but allow me just one minute to speak to the people of the Ministry. So, to pass on to ministers and to know that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers is either the chairman or his deputy. Ministers can only be represented by deputies. So, in the role of the promoter here, there may be ministers or 29 of their deputies. You, if you have time, assistants, professional associates, I don't mind you sitting here but tell your ministers: your presence here cannot be in the position of the promoter and the explanations. Now, look at this situation. So, the minister or his deputy. Say hello to the ministers and explain to them what's going on, you get the word you can't, the ones that are here. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24015	Well, you see, I'm gonna replicate a little V.D. Chairman, is that right, Commission, as Mr. Jovičić himself said. It is likely that the Commission has not been able to resolve 40 and some of the items within a period of some 15 days, but it does not consider that this is the reason why the Commission does not request an extension of the deadline, because this is not the first law or the first commission to request an extension of the deadline for the examination of the law when it cannot be completed within the business period and how it should be. The other thing, I don't have here, I don't know, maybe one of my colleagues has, or the commission has, I don't have the board's position, I don't have the authority's consent to indirect taxation, as Jovičić said to the others that there was no approval of the Board for these items, I didn't get in the material either for this consent of the Administration. If there is, it would be good for us MPs to have this in the material that the Direct Taxation Authority is in agreement, before she is the one who implements this law and who has to do, I repeat, implementing regulations to prevent possible abuses of this law. So it wasn't the chairman of the Commission that convinced me of his arguments that we had to discuss this today. I think it would still be much better for this parliament if we had a much bigger list on which, of course, I do not dispute that there could have been these 50,000 tonnes of sugar, but other products to help some other producers. Of course, as far as the amendment is concerned, congratulations. I mean, people didn't even ask us to rebuild them again, and we're going to rebuild them once more over the year this number, so it's really commendable.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24016	We have the replica Slavko Jovičić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24017	Dear Chairman, I thank Mr. Novaković for naming me chairman of the Commission, I am not just NN yet, but you all know me not NN. I really don't know what status, but that's not the issue of this House, I just said in the introduction. But I want to tell you that really, when we got this material, I stress date 12.2., 48 tariff numbers that we couldn't prepare it today for the House of Representatives session, but we didn't even want to hold back in the Commission that at least for this one tariff number where we received assurance from this Ministry of the Council of Ministers that all previous activities were consistent with all the relevant institutions that did this and we had it in our first reading. We got it on the Commission. We could only say this on the Commission - we will refuse - but for procedural reasons we could not find any solution when all the conditions 30 were met. And with that one tariff number, I repeat, we couldn't tie 48 other tariff numbers, not to read to you now. There's skin, textiles, all kinds of machines and everything. Can we do that, if we could prepare it without having the attitude of any relevant institution. So it wasn't possible but we were just asking that all those in the chain, who give various consent, here are countless of these institutions, to prepare it, so let's see what it is. The main intensity was to facilitate domestic economy, help them in this difficult economic crisis to avoid the dismissal of workers. That was our goal, not because we wanted to just push through, this is how I'm going to say the freest, sugar, to sweeten on sugar, and to make all of these people miserable. That's not our goal. If this had been prepared, I think this would have been my priority, because we can't walk barefoot. We need textiles, leather industry, everything that's written here, here, I don't know, you've got everybody, you've seen it. But, I repeat, if we could have had six days or five, four days, we got 12, we had a session of the Commission on the 16th, and we didn't have any opinion on this, except the ministry delivered it to us, delivered it to the minister. And I agree with you, am I supposed to defend the Ministry's views today, and I'd just perhaps be attacking the Ministry's views that they haven't finished by now, if I don't have any relevant conversators here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24018	Velimir Jukić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24019	So here, when we had a debate in the first reading of this law, it was also very interesting and it seemed to me, at least a dozen people reported for the debate that discussed this topic. This is a very sensitive topic, a very important topic, vital to many businesses in BiH. It's very important if someone gets repromaterials and raw materials for 10% cheaper or more expensive. It is especially important at a time when there are recessions of houses, it has already knocked on the doors and many businesses in BiH, when economic operators are struggling to keep employees, which is of priority to us as parliamentarians and as representatives of BiH authorities, so to keep our jobs, to help our economy. How, in what way? Well, we can't make any difference, the unprincipled differences between incorrect discrimination, but to set such rules, we build such a system to make it better for everyone, as far as possible, and to operate in equal conditions. The last time the Commission's report in the first reading was signifying: positively conditional, therefore conditionally positive, under a condition that Mr. Jovičić had just explained here, I will not repeat that I am not wasting my time and yours and mine, and this condition is partially met. When only a little bit of scratched beneath the surface, you could see what the problems were, how wide, how big, and how serious these problems were. It has been said that a list of 48 has been established, it seems to me, could possibly be further developed and expanded, etc. And the real question is, with what right can we pass a law that applies to only one or two tariff numbers, and not to the others. I haven't explained that something special needs to work quickly, although it is, of course. Anyone who has an interest in getting something in the interest of getting it as soon as possible and 31 has a greater benefit than when it's late. However, I think it would be good and there would be a lot of elements, and also a list, I see, of another dozen of my colleagues reported... of this to say, I think there are a lot of arguments to say that one other approach to this problem is made and that it is really going with one whole law that would then take into account all this which, through the work of the Commission, has been done through the materials delivered by the Council of Ministers, but also to obtain opinions from the Administration for indirect taxation and also to be quick to obtain opinions, not to wait for that opinion for a month, two and more. And then, within a very short period of time, a whole law will come before us which will then be comprehensive and I am convinced that such a law, such a whole bill will be neither big remarks nor much debate. Why? Because in this here two readings we've already, it seems to me, told me the most important thing and I haven't heard anyone here, at least so far, stand up for a different approach than the one I took out. So, that all BiH business entities are being treated in full on this issue, so on the release from import customs re-romatures and raw materials for their production. And I will repeat, it is particularly important and important always, at all times, and in this time of economic crisis is particularly important and important. And really, I'd like to invite all of my colleagues so we don't make a mistake and we can partially solve this, and leave the other subjects, I don't know, in some more unfavourable position. And I'll say my opinion. I think everyone in an unfavourable position is if possible and if there are justified arguments to be released, and I think everyone should be freed in this country, especially by producing to import raw materials and repromation without customs, without discrimination against anyone, I think, any branch, and not one subject from any branch of industry again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24020	Thank you. The Republic has a honourable MP, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24021	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, since I am a member of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, there would be no misunderstanding to clarify all the situations that were in this legal solution. So we were informed in the Commission by the proposings, and in essence we know that in the procedure of the Customs Tariff Act at the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, which was previously proposed and its fate is not known at this point. Furthermore, we have been informed that there have been no requests from other economic operators about the need that has been shown... during this request from the Brcko sugar company. Probably the reason this law existed in the process, people were waiting for his fate. These amendments and additions to this law, which only meant sugar was the direct need for people's explanation, they realized that this was going slowly, and I think this commission has resonated in a normal way. Here, as a member of the Commission, I felt, if there is a request and if there is a need, that we should not wait for others to now realize that this customs tariff legislative procedure has stopped in the Management Board, while they submit their applications. Here, in the 32nd time, the promoter informed us that certain requirements had arrived before the session itself, made that list, brought and here these days we are talking about the recession, the problems, the rescue of companies, workers, I think... that the Commission was in no way negatively working when it gave a positive opinion that this legal procedure was going on and... we tasked the Ministry to contribute to these new requests for the preparation of the procedure, to send to the Directorate for indirect taxation, and that at one of the next sessions we may have positive opinions on these proposals and to solve these problems. I don't think it's a problem in a partial solution, the problem is to run that customs tariff wheel that's been standing in one place for a long time, and I think with this legal solution, we're starting that wheel and moving forward. That's it, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24022	Thank you. Replica reply, Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24023	Well, it's a partial approach problem right now. Therefore, I am not an advocate, i.e. I object to such a way of working that every economic operator appears to be potentially individualising from customs to imports of repromation and equipment. This should be a system measure, i.e. a legal provision that will exempt all such from this obligation, and this deficit, and therefore should be fully addressed, to see what this will be a lack of income for the Council of Ministers, together with entity governments, etc. Because that's how the fiscal system is arranged for us to make up for this minus on another side, increasing some other rates, etc. And that is why it needs a comprehensive approach, not a partial solution to individual requirements. Therefore, many economic operators do not think at all that they should and may be eligible for their request to be released in the case of imports of the necessary repromaterials and equipment, etc., but rather consider that the state government or body, the competent institution authorised to regulate that policy. And we're the legislative authority here, we need to deal with it, but this is so sensitive that it's not expected that the initiatives here are coming from us, but it should be dealt with entirely from the Council of Ministers' level right now. And that's why it takes a whole approach, not partial solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24024	Thank you. We're going back to the discussion list. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24025	Dear Members of Parliament, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, the international community, means of information, dear guests, here we are today to adopt or not adopt the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act, and I think it is a serious job. Changing the law, or supplementing it, is not something that is an amendment to some regulation by lower institutions or executive or legislative ones. We have to come really seriously to this problem, and we can't today, and especially after these inconclusive arguments, we have to make a decision to supplement this law, and in a few days we can't restart the initiative to supplement the same law, only according to some other items in that same law. I do not think that any serious parliament would allow itself to make two amendments and supplement within a month, and that it already suggests in advance from a number of MPs or people dealing with this area or who are involved in this proposal that a certain part of other raw materials or semi-products should be included in order to also satisfy other producers. Furthermore, I am not convinced here that there has been a procedural error here, but I am more convinced that there has been today's putting on the agenda in the second reading before certain other views that we as the House of Representatives have brought here, the House of Representatives, but I am more convinced that this is being taken out and then I am afraid that certain other producers, who have needs too, will not have the power to re-emerge this to the agenda point within a month or two. That's why I think it's inconclusive today to supplement this law, and in the course of one month to initiate that same supplement again, and so I suggest the following conclusions: 1. To delay the plea at today's session on this law. 2. To extend the amendment phase of action. 3. To obtain all the necessary missing opinions, such as which is the opinion of the indirect tax administration, which I, here, am not convinced that he has, I do not have. On the question - does the Board of Direct Taxation have an opinion? - We didn't get an answer whether he had it or not. So I'm proposing these three conclusions, and it seems to me that we're going to come up with some real solution in this, and in the meantime, and we can get to these tariff numbers and all that we need to do to make sure that everything we think is done in the law, do it, and we don't always have to wait for someone to call us or break down to adjust his law to make it work better. Its basic rule and basic task is that he knows how to produce well, and it is little is our obligation to bring the law into line with his needs without damaging the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24026	Thank you. The next for discussion is Ambassador Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24027	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will begin by replicating my colleagues to Novaković. I thought I'd pick up the line, and then I decided to do it in a discussion. The replica consists of, Mr. Novaković, not providing the proposed majority for the adoption of this law at parliament. 34 I am here to say what my motives were in the first reading and to say something about what has prompted me to submit and amend and participate in this whole process. I have to tell you that I supported it for a very simple reason that for the first time it was some kind of proposal that we have from the Resolute Ministry, from the Management Board for indirect taxation to help domestic production in this way. I have to say that I was a very big skeptic myself, when I saw that it was only one product, but I supported further proceedings for a simple reason, hoping it would be one initial chapel to do something with other products. Question: How do we do that, how do we respect the Rules of Procedure and really do something useful? In fact, I'll remind you that this commission has put an enormous amount of effort into these attempts to, at the state level, through excise duties and tariffs and proposals that we've been going out with, try to help domestic production, because we know that incentives are at entity level. We also came out with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act and the second was the Proposal for a Law amending the Excise Act. I can tell you that after that, explicitly with the same law, the same law in the procedure was sent to the Council of Ministers and, I'm not telling you any further, in a strange way today, if you open a website, both of these laws are in the process. Unfortunately, that's when it turned out that we as a commission don't have a partner. We've been rejected in a very arrogant way and I've gotten the impression that there's no minimum will to do anything in this field. Last time, in our first reading, we passed the law and put one condition on the Commission, or adopted it with a conclusion. And here, for a second reading, we suggested adoption, again, with a conclusion. Clearly, that's not the answer. But you realize that what we've been doing has really been one great desire to in any way, here we are in the third year of office, in that domain of ours to help domestic production. Clearly, you can't just do that when it comes to sugar. And let me say it one more time. What was the condition, laid down a condition for the resolution ministry to make a list, here is fellow Jovičić reading it, not to remind you, I must tell you that they have attached three lists that were actually just the wishes of the manufacturer, which shows the proposal that this should be resolved, i.e. showing one complete arrogance of the promoter. And I personally don't believe that if this goes through in the second reading that the Council of Ministers, given the experience so far, will meet what we have put here as a condition. And let me also point out that we did not really see on the Commission the approval of the Management Board for indirect taxation on this, on consent, but it simply came as a proposal. And, not to mention, my proposal is that we postpone the statement on this law for a very simple reason that according to these lists that already exist and that will be further supplemented to make a new list and that, as such, sugar will probably be found in that list, that we should then bring it to Parliament. This would also be combined with the discussion on point 17, where we discussed the Action Plan on the implementation of the CEFTA Agreement. Therefore, my proposal is to postpone the plea, until, according to the conclusion that... the Commission has made, a complete proposal for the release comes from the applicant, i.e. a reduction in customs tariffs. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24028	Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24029	Dear President, colleagues, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, it is unquestionably that we, directly from the state budget, transfer a few million marks to the private company's budget. These are facts that are not controversial and are undeniable that this will cause positive effects in our economy. These are also small amounts of EU countries, as far as the US is directly out of the budget for its economy at the moment, to help it avoid job layoffs. The fact that the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has proposed amendments to customs tariffs over the past two years has also proposed amendments to excise duties, and has proposed complete solutions covering the entire economy, the whole BiH economy, to propose amendments to excise duties that would result in hundreds of millions of new revenues in our budget. And if there were support from the Council of Ministers and from the Management Board for indirect taxation, today our budgets would not have deficits in the Federation or in the cantons. We'd have enough money for everyone, and our peril would be in a better position. What's this about? As we have received information from the Commission that the Management Board and the Council of Ministers are ready to address these issues in the coming period, I experience that it has changed attitudes compared to two years of continuous ignoring these issues and that it is now even ready to resolve these issues if the company needs a company per company, and especially if it is a group of producers or something like that. Although this is about changing attitudes and approach to solving economic problems, the People's Party Working for betterment and I, on behalf of it, support it here and I think that's the right direction. But if that doesn't happen in the next period, then this is directly about a million-dollar corruption affair where one firm, directly from the state budget, is being transferred to a private company. For this reason, I also support this delay so that we may be certain that in a month we have other proposals here to adopt them, but also, if there is no majority, I support that at this point, and we trust the Council of Ministers and the Management Board for indirect taxation to adopt this. But if in a month or two no solutions are found for all other producers, then we've been deceived, then they've had a direct corruption affair, and they've tricked us into doing something else, and I will personally seek the launch of a mistrust to the Council of Ministers, precisely because of this issue, because this Parliament has been directly deceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24030	Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 36 And I, as a member of the Commission, will say something here, because, I see, all the colleagues who were at the session of that commission have come to this conclusion, or opinion, and in that sense they have said something. I've been against such opinions and suggestions regarding this bill for the following reasons. First, what colleagues were already saying, we were very pleased with the initiative coming from the Council of Ministers to change customs tariffs. We were all satisfied with that, but we all showed a certain reserve why just sugar, as they say, sugar should come at the end. However, this was the only one, the only proposal to change tariffs, customs tariffs. Of course, we said then -- let's not be, sugars now, so that there's no collateral damage to this request, that it spread. We will ultimately support this bill, provided that one serious amendment to the law amending these customs tariffs is prepared until the second reading. Of course, we know the next sequence, and now the question is, how are we supposed to treat ourselves here now? The main issue is what the chairman tried, during this debate on this agenda point, to draw attention to one relationship, bad relationship, non-respect, I would say, to disrespect this home by both the Council of Ministers and the ministries that propose certain laws. So we... we're this minister, I mean, we haven't even met him yet, we haven't even seen him. The second question is whether this home will ultimately respect its own views and conclusions. We said, we're not going to pass this law on condition that we don't get to the second reading what we're looking for in the conclusion of this home. And finally, I would like to join, to keep this in a state of mind, is it, the proposals that go after this to be delayed, that I also suggested to the Commission, that we get extra time from 15 days, to see if something serious is going to be done here, or whether we will continue the old practice of making promises and not fulfilling what is concluded. And finally, here it may not be collegiate, and I express my surprise to my colleagues in the Commission, who had similar stories on the Commission, have made such a decision as has been made, and now they are for prolonging or even against what they have concluded. So I would suggest that unless there's a prolonging, I don't even, I don't think, the SDP Club will be able to support this law, no matter how much we realize it's useful for domestic production. But there are instruments, there is strength, there is capacity in the ministry, especially the Ministry of Foreign Trade to do a lot of work and take measures to protect domestic production, however harsh it sounds, we will call it simply by protecting domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24032	I'm moving Bešlagić. So, just one finding, I am really sorry that this debate is not being held on the Commission, but that the Commission is practically sitting in a plenary session in a way. But here you go, Mr. Bešlagić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24033	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think you just took my word, but something strange is going on in this House. We are always ready as commissions to defend why we have made any decision, instead of discussing the essence, of the issue that has been raised before this committee, in front of this home, we are now all as members of the commission, any commission, here and in traffic and communication, always defending ourselves, always something attacks us, who has given us the right. I think it's a mistake in our Parliament's work and we're not effective. Another thing I'd like to point out here, I think, if it comes up like this with a request, partially, giving changes and supplementing customs rates, I think we're going to be ineffective. Imagine now 40 requests for this and that every request will be discussed at Parliament and that we will have 40 discussions on every request and waste of time in those parts. And we have always asked for the customs tariff to be uniquely treated from the aspect of BiH's needs, the needs of BiH's economy, etc. And now to go back to this question that is very delicate. We started with sugar, sweet story, 50,000 tons, 50 million pounds for those who are propagating... that's 500 thousand marks. That's a fact. Let's not, let's not run from these things. But now another question: Who does this sugar need to be introduced for? How many companies are doing this sugar? What's that? Is that the molasses that will be processed into sugar? Is that the sugar we're going to repack already? And then the question is whether he's well-chosen, I'd say, a product that can save the number of jobs. Did we ever get, in addition to this argument, which is the consumer who, which is the company that is going to process, how many employees does this company have? What's the effect of that? How many jobs will be held? Whether it's sugar, sugar cane or maybe it's footwear, textile farming, etc., etc. And for that reason, I believe that customs tariff is a matter of not one product but of a group of products that will facilitate on the basis of an economic calculation, to say, if, at present, it is the retention of jobs, which is the number of jobs and which are the institutions that need them, i.e. enterprises that should retain the number of jobs in this customs tariff. And imagine, we import sugar, give sugar, and tomorrow we get information that 50% of the workers are fired in that sugar shop, because it's probably just gonna need to repack this sugar. There's nothing else to do. For these reasons, I think it is very important to keep this Parliament's position, that the foreign trade ministry and this go with a complete proposal for customs tariffs and to get, in that sense, these effects and the number of detained workers and what industry it is, etc. And finally, one suggestion. I think we're facing again, and if there's a good proposal, here, from this Parliament that we're going to face one brake, and that's the decision, I'd say, of the indirect tax administration. I would suggest, and I don't know how to do that, to change this parliament's decision and that this Parliament has the right to make decisions on customs tariffs, as the largest legislative institution, not to go looking. So, to change that decision so that we have the freedom to resolve in this House, and not at all whether there is any good will in that Administration for indirect taxation or not. For these reasons, I believe that this part of the law should be changed and, on the other hand, I suggest, what is said to be delayed or delayed to a single customs tariff position, otherwise, we will consider how who will vote. 38 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24034	Here, I've got a whole series of replicas. But, one piece of information, so right now, the people of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations have submitted a notice to the Management Board of 11 months 2008 giving consent to the amendment of the laws relating to duty-free quotas of raw sugar, etc. I didn't let that be shared now. This is the document you were supposed to have on the Commission. Of course in the break, if you insist, I can give it to you. This is no way to work. Indeed, in the future, I will strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure and I will not allow this. Let's move on. Halid the Genjac. Is Jovičić a mistake? It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24035	Mr. Chairman, therefore, we didn't transfer the atmosphere here from the Commission so that you could hear what we talked about there and it's not a secret.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24036	It seemed to me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24037	Here, I will now commend myself that I have received support from all my colleagues, and they expected there to be a session on the edge, on the edge, but here Mr. Križanović comes out, I'm sorry, so here's Mr. Sokolović, here's my colleagues who congratulated me, and I was surprised how it worked. It worked the way we ran the session, but it was unsuccessful how we prepared the materials. I'm not looking for an alibi, nor am I defending my colleagues from the Commission, but I repeat, we got for this tariff all but, gentlemen, we didn't get the consent to import a shoe, where it says in the tariff number. We didn't get the consent to import a sheath of plain shoe metal. This isn't cartoon. I'm with my colleagues right now, we have a consensus, we've advocated full measures for all the tariff numbers that this economy needs to facilitate, but we didn't get consent. Could we have broken all that and said, "Here, we won't respect what the Directorate thinks about indirect taxation, and we know that without it we can't do anything about it? He's not here yet, I don't know who spoke the replica of exposure, it seems to me Mr. Okolić, I refuse anything possible, I won't use the term of insinuation, because my friend wouldn't even think of this commission if someone had been left out here. I don't know, maybe it is. But no one dares me, I said on BHTV the other night, when they heard I was 20 days V.D. I'll turn them all over to the D.A., whoever called me. Let them know right away, publicly. Whoever calls me for anything, and if it's against the law, will be handed over to the D.A.'s office. And for the call. They can't even invite me to coffee. So, please, Mr. Chairman, and I appreciate that there is no atmosphere transferred from the Commission here, the atmosphere has been transmitted here to see what kind of problems we have. We don't have the Ministry's position, we don't have the Directorate for indirect taxation, we don't have this, we don't have that and we get a request for 48 tariff numbers, I repeat, 12. Could we have settled it on the 16th, and we don't have any other official views of the institutions that are in charge of the chain that 39 we approve all of this? And imagine, this commission will now have the most work to do in this recession. We're not afraid of that job, they're all serious people, but to do the job the right way, really. And what you said must defend the position of one of the promoters here. Well, I won't defend him. We've been attacking the Commission and looking all the time. You've prepared 62 measures, let two in effect.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24038	Is that my replica, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24039	No, this is a replica for all of this. And to you, just that we didn't pass on the atmosphere, but that you know that we're in huge problems there, and I expect you, as a man I greatly respect, to give us support and not to encourage us, you have nothing to do with us, but to say that this commission has really huge problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24040	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Be sure, I'll give the support, of course. Salko Sokolović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24041	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24042	Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24043	To all
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24044	Everyone, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24045	who spoke negatively. Well, here, you'll see. It is clear to me that the opposition is against such legal solutions, because they aim to bring it all to ruin, so that they can come to power. But I don't know what these people who are in a position and had different opinions on the Commission are now changing those opinions. Look, I'm not lobbyed on this, but I've been informed by the people of the Ministry, so those who work there, they're getting paid in the interest of this state, which is the factory, how many employees there are, what it needs to survive at this point. And that was my reason. And I'm going to reverse the situation now, so I'm going to say if I'm lobbyed for these, then you're all talking against this lobbyed for the importers, because you want to import sugar into BiH. (?) No microphone 40 turned on Do you want Serbian-Croatian factories and workers to work, produce?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24047	Please get out of the O.R., get out of the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24048	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24049	Leave the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24050	So, I'm just turning the thesis now. So we can think that way. These others have been lobbyed in a way that wants workers in Croatia and Serbia to work sugar, bring it to Bosnia, and that we buy it here, not that our factory works, etc. So we can think that way, if we have no arguments. And here, I'm holding the papers of the Board of Direct Taxation. Here, I invite the chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Vrankić, to come here, if he listens somewhere now, in this room to explain this situation. And that people's dead-end shit when it comes to birth, while this Customs Tariff Act, which we've also proposed as the Commission and as the Ministry, is considering on the board of directors and the official position, may be half of those factories going to fail. I say, let's run that wheel, here's how Mr. Lijanović said just now, on this example, let's follow if that's it, and then stop. And not to mention, here, it's not a problem for 15 days, if they're going to succeed, to delay, if they're going to be able to prepare for these new requirements of this kind. But obviously that the Parliament of the State, I am aware of that, here I do not know if you are all aware, can not order the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority to settle some things, can not order. And now we wait, we'll be their hostages. Well, at least let's get that wheel going, so let's tell them, can you see that you can do this? There you go, Mr. Chairman, replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24051	I'm interrupting the session by 1:00 because we don't have a quorum. [[PAUZA]] As soon as you got here, you counted well. Hadji Jovan Mitrović. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24053	The Honorable Chairman and ladies and gentlemen! What you said here, everyone on this committee has made their point, which I expected was not the need to discuss us, since we were really having a debate on this committee and we made these conclusions the way we did, with one vote abstention. But what I'd like to say, after all this debate over this point, is that it's outrageous and unseen that we close our eyes to what's happening to us. At one point we're worried about a difficult economic situation, about what's going to happen to us, and at another point, when one little step we need to take and that somewhere, we're helping someone, then we're asking for everything in the booze together, which is absolutely impossible. I am surprised, in the end, that of those colleagues and those political parties who were in this home the moment this law was passed and the powers given to this Governing Board were given to us now. I am surprised that until today they have not thought about bringing and changing this law in this respect, so that this parliament today has no problems. For this reason, by considering all this and looking at 150 people – workers, and today we have ordinary actions where they are closed, because they cannot function, and we have 150 workers in one place, we have a company that has invested foreign capital of 60 million, we have the consent of such a board of directors who is above the Council of Ministers, which is above Parliament, so that we simply don't go out to these people and tell them and to condition until it's comprehensively considered, all those demands that they made to this company ministry that have these problems. I think we need to get the strength to meet this company, however, and I would recommend to my colleagues, to those who passed this law, that, as soon as tomorrow or tomorrow, in the next 15 or a month, they make a proposal to amend this law. I will vote for him to confiscate powers from the board of directors and simply solve these issues as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24054	I don't have any more charges to argue with or for replicas. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Statement in second reading on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production under the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer: Ambassador Jerko Ivanković We adopted this law in our first reading at the 29th session of the House. At the 32nd session, July 9th and 14th, the bill was discussed in the second reading and the debate was concluded. Following the debate, Dom adopted the conclusions at four points, namely the four points which, with the rest, delayed the statement on the Law Proposal by the end of 2008, and the Council of Ministers and the Competent Ministry was 42 in charge of preparing by the end of the year a comprehensive analysis of the effects of the implementation of the CEFTA Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on the foreign trade balance of BiH. The Council was also tasked with preparing by the end of 2008 any amendments and additions to the legislation and sublaws that would facilitate the creation of Bosnian-Herzegovina businesses, with a special emphasis on agricultural producers. The Council of Ministers partially realised then oral conclusions. We also have today, to remind you, on the agenda of the 2008 Implementation Plan for the Implementation of the Programme of Measures, with an analysis of the external trade. So, let me remind you one more time, we've finished the debate and this law will practically be on the line, but here's to remind you of what this is all about. So you have this information, and we're going to vote on it when we plead with the others at the end, when we're done with all the points of the agenda. Moving to item 5 of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposer: MP Adem Huskić (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24057	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's much to talk about, but here's a feeling of commitment as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24058	If you don't have to, don't, but here, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24059	It doesn't take much, I won't have much. So, just to remind you that this is the second attempt, that in the second month of last year, I proposed this law, that it was accepted in this house, was not accepted in the House of Peoples. I would only now like to take the opportunity to ask my colleagues... and my party colleagues in the House of Peoples to take advantage of their authority in their parties and help to accept the House of Nations, since both times they have been unanimously accepted on the Constitutional Commission. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24060	Here comes Milorad Živković for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24061	Thank you, Chairman. You probably know the reason, Mr. Huskić, why it wasn't accepted in the House of Peoples and it would be good if we had shared here the initiative adopted by the House of People another 17. Nine. In 2008, where it is addressed to the Council of Ministers to determine the legal status of this institution, to pass a new law on the Official Journal of BiH, not now entering into the essence of your bill, which we from the SNSD will declare positively, but also wanting to support activities in the House of Peoples. In this regard, we also wanted to propose a conclusion on this agenda point, which is: that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives mandates the Council of Ministers to inform, within 15 days, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH of concrete measures and activities related to the resolution of the legal status of the Official Messenger of BiH and thus to arrange this matter which is obviously not legally regulated and we are in favour of supporting your amendment, but also that the legal status of this Official Messenger is resolved in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24062	Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24063	I will give my support to this solution very briefly. I think BiH is the only country in the region, and I think even across Europe, which has such a restrictive access to public information. So most countries have a completely free access to all this information that is well paid in BiH. Also, the people in this institution are not in charge, not their first priority to earn money, but to do this job in quality, have priority other goals, not the goal of making profits. And that is why I believe that the time has come for us to really solve this way and take one significant step in the overall transparency of the work of all institutions, especially in light of the Law on Public Procurement, which is already old, here for three years and to take a significant step in bringing this information closer, which is most important for free to all interested, not only to the citizens of BiH but also beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24064	I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Mr. Živković will deliver, I suppose, this conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion. Let me give you a heads-up. We were planning a break at 2:00 a.m. for lunch, because we have a session with the College of the People's House at the time. But here, use for lunch by 3:00, from 2:00 to 3:00. Point 6. 44 Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading) We have the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. We've got Opinion 13. 2. The Commission accepted the principles and adopted the conclusion that a public debate was also organised on the proposal for a law. So here comes the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24066	I'll just have two sentences. You have already said, there is also the conclusion of this Finance Commission and the budget that it is going to amend or supplement this law or new law, with the conclusion of this Parliament to do the law. The Council of Ministers has passed the law. We adopted him in the first reading. I think we really need this law. He, in my opinion, is the main brake of our economy. I call upon all colleagues to adopt in their first reading. Here, there's a public debate, we'll have a second phase, we can fix the amendments. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24067	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24068	I support what my esteemed colleague Bahtić said, but I also want to make some facts about this law. We are all aware that this law, in its very beginning and way of adopting it, means imposing by the High Representative and some of the international factors that were engaged here in BiH, was bad. And I made a bill of law and the way it was done. After that, on several occasions, it has been tried to fix this law and it has been partially, not entirely as we have now received, and we have not succeeded here in Parliament to get out, to bring this activity to an end. I also put the law in the Constitutional Court, I would not like to comment on the Constitutional Court decisions, which gave the right for this parliament to pass this law, but I believe that certain provisions of this law may be subject to re-sentation to the Constitutional Court. And with regard to today's bill of law, which is before us, I would like to say that it seems to me that the Single Rules of Law for the adoption of this law have been violated. If you look at the explanation, you will see that members of 66, 75, and 76 are not respected. Unique rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions to specify which institutions at entity and other levels are agreed on amending and supplementing this law, whether they have obtained agreement on this and such a proposal of this law, which violates Article 76. Unique rules that say that, on the basis of the outcome, consultation prepares a draft normative act. We have also received a letter from the RS Ministry which explicitly and declaredly does not give consent to such a law as has been sent here and I do not think it is a good way to find some legal projects here in front of us. But at the same time, I believe that the matter can be fixed and that in the amendment phase in the members concerned of jurisdiction, in particular the competence of the agencies and the jurisdiction of the Office of Appeal, in principle one law but two ways in which it would be implemented, this law can be brought, in my opinion, in accordance with the 45 BiH Constitution, but also to be, which is most important to us, and the objective of passing this law – I implement. And we from SNSD will support this law in the first reading. We will also daći consent to the Commission's opinion that this public debate is being held, but we will insist on amendments that, in these members in particular, I think, in 79 and 78, that agencies and the Office of Appeals be treated in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24069	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading) The Constitutional Commission... delivered its opinion to us on February 12th. The Commission for Transport and Communications is responsible, which also delivered its opinion on the principles of February 13th. The Commission accepted the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24071	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, at least we MPs from the RS, don't know about the others, have received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia challenging the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. And, from our experience here in the paper, usually the fate of the law in these situations can already be assessed in advance. And, uh, I didn't answer because I wanted to let you know, so this is what we got, but it's about saying that
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24072	But here, you've informed us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24073	This issue is regulated in the way that only one law in the RS has been regulated today, therefore, and in the rest of BiH is not regulated, creating serious problems, which, of course, does not mean that there are no other ways to regulate this issue so that the regulations can be harmonised at BiH level, so at least, if there is no mood in the first stage, and obviously there is no adoption of one law at BiH level, I do not see why several laws at BiH level could not be passed in an entirely identical text. 46 I think that in some ways this question should be resolved, I mean, because it is a problem in this way as it has been solved today. Something is in the jurisdiction of the entity, I don't know now in the Federation whether it's in the jurisdiction of the canton or the entity, I have no idea, but if the canton is, then we need laws at canton level. In any case, if it is not possible to resolve it this way,... so my suggestion is that, at some stage, it starts from the Council of Ministers of Initiative or even from this home to try in another way to harmonise the rules in this area in order to warn the possible consequences of the absence of a uniform resolution of these issues across the whole area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24074	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24075	The respected chairman, Beriz Belkić, has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24076	So, Mr. Novaković, thank you for the information. I have repeatedly said that no one has the right to take away anyone's ability to consult, obtain an opinion, etc., however, this Parliament is absolutely not bound by it. So this is about the procedure that was implemented and we put this law to debate in the first reading, after the procedure that was carried out. We got it from an authorised promoter, passed the Constitutional Legal Commission, passed the competent commission. And I can take this discussion of yours as some kind of warning that this law will not be supported, so that voting mechanisms will be used and that it will not pass. When it comes to harmonisation of regulations, we really need to talk about harmonisation of regulations, of course in the region. We can harmonize with Serbia, Croatia etc., but when it comes to the state of BiH, where there are competences, we can only discuss whether this is jurisdiction or not. So where there's established jurisdiction, these are state laws, why don't you bring them in. Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24077	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, is a replica of my esteemed colleague, Novaković. The Constitutional Commission has drawn up its report and made it clear that for this law, therefore, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters, there is an appropriate constitutional basis. But my replica, of course, is not going in that direction, but I want to ask my colleague Novaković - whether he is aware that in this country, at least in this parliament, it has become more than clear that there are serious brakes when there should be some area concerning or transporting dangerous substances, or weapons, or transporting military equipment and weapons at the level of BiH, and whether he knows what it really means and what all the expensive messages can be sent here in Parliament and the Bosnian Herzegovina public. Having such brakes on this area, and the military area is properly arranged in BiH, can cause a variety of doubts among all of us in BiH, all of those watching us. And I got up to say that this thing was recognized and, behold, I publicly say it now here in Parliament. That's it, thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24078	Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24079	You see, I just thought I might have opened the door a little bit, and it turns out I closed the door. In fact, I, Mr. Džaferović, was just talking about it, and I thought I was saying that it seemed to me that I was aware of what could cause it. I didn't feel like I was saying that I was unconscious about it, but that I was just aware. But I was also talking about that, knowing the practice here, when we have such a situation that we have a problem, and it's not our first time, I wanted to say that we should try to figure out a way to solve the problem. One of the variants is harmonisation. The other of the variants may be in the very process of proposing this law that the Council of Ministers has conducted certain consultations, so that we do not receive such a letter as we have received it. That might be an even better solution. But it was obviously more important for someone to come here than to make sure the law passed at Parliament and get support and to solve this issue. In this context, I was still saying that it's a shame that we won't regulate this area in a unique way, not at the state level, or, I don't know, in a unique way. And we were able to regulate in a unique way not only like this but also through the harmonisation of regulations at other levels, so then wait maybe a moment for this, gentlemen, but here it's obvious that you've figured out my discussion differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24080	There are no misunderstandings, Mr. Novaković, I mean, it's okay. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24081	Mr. Chairman, I thought on behalf of the commission that I was not answering specifically, but these discussions suggest it is still necessary. I think a colleague of Novaković just said one essential sentence that can be directly, let me put it this way, applied to this law. I predlagač it, I repeat it, it is more important for the Proposer to be either whether or not to pass the law, not entering whether or not he will pass, and that is precisely the fact that there is no one here. We have also thought similarly about the Commission for Transport and Communications and have sought a possible solution from this situation. It was an idea and, it seems to me, that we were even unanimous that there was a business opportunity to get it back to the Council of Ministers in order to make the necessary alignment, but then we realized that we had no business opportunities and we did what we had to do, as you did in the College passed this law. There are things in the law about which jurisdiction can be asked, and in many places. Apparently, the promoter ignored the suggestions that came from the beginning and made a law behind which one entity does not stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24082	May I have your attention, please? 48
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24083	I also want to remind you that here are the ministers in the Council of Ministers from one entity who did not vote for this law. We voted in the Commission at the end, as you saw, mostly passed this law, and we were aware of the fact that it would pass. I think there should be a warning from here to the promoters that when they propose laws to both fight and create conditions for these laws to pass. There really is a matter here that deserves not only within the state to be uniformly regulated but even wider, even regions, because that dissension can have more consequences for the environment of one that can cause a problem, but for one where this problem comes from, I don't know if I've been clear, but I think you understand me. Thank you very much, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24084	I assure you, Mr. Dokić, that the people of the Council of Ministers know what you're talking about, but here. I mean, there's no need for us to specifically tell them, they know what's gonna happen next, but that's how it goes. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24085	Thank you. I support a good part of the discussion that Mr. Dokić said, but I expected from colleagues Novaković that he would draw attention to one thing he usually draws attention to at the Constitutional Commission sessions, which refers to the preamble of almost 95% of the laws that come here, and always calls for Article IV point 4. The BiH Constitution. I think the promoter has failed to call for Article III point 1i) of the BiH Constitution, which states what the powers of the BiH institutions are and says, 'Making rules on transportation among entities'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24086	I no longer have reported and replicas, no discussion or replicas, and I am concluding the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters. This constitutional-based debate was to be held on the Constitutional Commission. Mr. Huskić, I think you were a member there, yes. So we're going to point 8. 49 Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the Postales of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (first reading) We have the Constitutional Commission's opinion. We also have an opinion on the principles of the competent Commission for Transport and Communications. The principles of most votes were accepted, here's what I'm saying. The President of the Commission, as an introductory note, shall report on the opening remarks. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24088	Unlike this previous law, consensus has been reached here, and the Commission has decided to go to first reading here for the majority of the votes. They're already out of some announced amendments, but it's now a normal congregation procedure and I don't think I need anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24089	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24090	I will briefly, a few sentences, say that the main reason for the adoption of this law is the unsettled market and that it does not apply the applicable Law on Post Offices, so now... it is very useful to the market to carry out postal traffic without licenses, where the state is left without huge resources to work and I believe that this should be regulated by law. I also want to say that only a UN Member State can be in the World Postal Federation, so BiH is a member of the UN and as soon as it becomes a member of the UN and becomes a member of the World Post Federation. BiH as a country and member of the World Postal Union is a signator of all acts of the World Post Federation. BiH has pledged to apply acts of the World Postal Federation as signatories of acts. Also, I'd like to point out Annex IX. It's an agreement to set up public corporations. It means he was also implemented, so I don't quote him, you know him, Annex VII. We adopted him on the Commission in our first reading. It will also be, so today if it passes in the first reading, it will be an amendment phase. We need this law the most because of the market... That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24091	Remzija Kadrić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24092	I thank you, Chairman. So, I'll do it very briefly. I have one general and several concrete remarks. So these people who deal with this job from all three operators this post office, they thought it was better and it would be more useful if we got a proposal to amend and supplement the existing law. So that we have made certain adjustments in the existing law, not to go to the adoption of a new law that goes, moreover, under existing solutions. So it's one general remark, and I think it's established and it would be better to have made certain adjustments to the existing law. As for concrete observations, therefore, the amendment phase should act, and in this respect I will make certain efforts. So, when it comes to Article 2. (these definitions of certain terms), many things here need to be more precisely defined that later in law we have no problem. In the case of postal policy policies, therefore, some precision should be made in these matters as well; when it comes to certain provisions concerning reserved services that can only be done by mail, and in this respect many things need to be interpreted. When it comes to postal transport organisations, therefore, there are many things in this section that need to be specified more and more precisely in terms of the competence of this postal transport agency, the provisions. This is how some general, general and individual remarks are made. Therefore, in the amendment phase, such a law should be made which will be useful for mail as an activity of general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24093	Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24094	Thank you, Chairman. Unlike the Law on Public Procurement, this law and the application of the way legal projects here are to be found in front of MPs and to respect these unique rules on law-making, you will see it on the back where it reads under 7. Consultations on how this legislative project occurred: agreement, working group, common positions and, of course, the struggle of opinions on the making of the best possible law. It seems to me that the only reason the law is in new form is because over 50% of the members have been changed. For a simple formal reason, it had to go to the adoption of a new law, to amend and supplement this law... I feel partially responsible because I was one of those who voted for this law. So such a law was not good enough and people experts who sat down and made a new law have practically changed over 50% of the members. I think a lot of things have been improved in terms of the precision of the subject matter, the terms in the law, the principles of postal policy have been defined, and now I don't list all the things that are mentioned and in the very explanation of this legal project. I think it's a good thing this legal project introduced 51 liberalisation of the postal market where other postal operators can do besides the Post Office as a Public Postal Operator. We have a problem with several members relating to Article 23. Inspection and Article 24 and 27 which I believe may be improved in the definition itself and in the transitional provisions of Article 28 which I do not consider to be agreed on by the working group. I do not know how it was found in the draft law itself, and we will, in the amendment phase, after the meaning, and I see according to the statements and discussions of the other MPs that they will be supported in the draft, so in the amendment phase, we will bring amendments to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24095	I no longer have reported replicas or discussions. Finalising debate on point 8. A bill of mail. Moving to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Weapons, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH – Proposer: Council of Ministers So here we have, for the third time, the negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. So, all our efforts, returns, etc. They did not bear fruit, therefore, and this time the Joint Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law. We are discussing opinions and deciding again on the Commission's opinion. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. I think we're slowly coming into phase for this point and for this next one that we simply haven't found a way out and that we simply need to end this agony. But here I am opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24097	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24098	Here you go, sir. If you're looking, Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24099	I thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, let me say a few words in favour of passing this law. Therefore, the Council of Ministers established interagency working groups in June 2007 to draft regulations governing the area of production, transport, storage, storage of arms and military equipment and transport of dangerous substances and dual-use means. So,... these were interagency working groups for a whole series or set of laws among which were this 52 law on the transport of dangerous substances, control of the movement of arms and military equipment, among other things, and this law on weapons and we made that decision unanimously. So, at the end of last year, we adopted the guns bill proposal, unfortunately, not uniquely. The area in BiH is currently governed by the entity, i.e. the cantonal and Brcko District laws. In some cases, in some cantons there is still law from the former SFRY. The consequence is that we have an unequal approach to law enforcement in this area, which is seen in an uneven number of registered weapons across BiH, different treatment of certain types of weapons, non-compliance with sanctions, etc. Among other things, the reasons for the adoption of this law are the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis communautaire, the establishment of a single legal framework in the field of arms and ammunition, the alignment of the licensing process for carrying arms, improving and improving the register of arms, identifying and registering all arms holders, including authorised sellers and importers, improving import-export policies and strengthening the fight against illegal arms trafficking intended for civilian use, preventing the distribution of registered arms on the black market, as well as improving security policy in full. According to some unofficial estimates, every fifth BiH resident has illegal weapons. In addition, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Co-ordination Committee for the Control of Light and Small Weapons... identified the need to carry out coordination activities at the state level to establish effective control of small and light weapons and ammunition, while the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Justice were designated as the operator of the activity. The basic basis is the EU Council directives, which are set out here in the reasons, etc. in which, among other things, rules are prescribed to allow for the control of the supply, inspection and movement of weapons within the EU Member States, but also a clear categorisation of weapons. Therefore, the Directive proposes to define a category of firearms whose procurement and holding for citizens would be prohibited or would require special authorisation, i.e. registration. In addition to the adoption of this law, the fact that the criteria for the authorisation of the supply of arms are significantly strengthened in relation to existing laws is envisaged and evidence is provided, inter alia, that the applicant is trained to handle firearms by a professional authorised organisation, especially in light of the fact that compulsory military service has been lifted. Also, the law stipulates that a special authorisation for carrying arms is issued in addition to the authorisation to hold weapons. It should also, if, of course, adopt the law, adopt a regulation laying down conditions for carrying out firearms training, conditions and how to implement the training programme. Therefore, the conditions and arrangements for the installation and storage of weapons and ammunition and of course forms of requests, approvals, weapons lists, permits, records, etc. The law also provides for much more stringent procedures for the procurement, holding and carrying of weapons and persons supplying weapons. In addition, this legislative regulation also concerns provisions on the procurement of weapons that speak of bans on the issue of arms to persons, i.e. weapons approvals to persons who are mentally ill, who are convicted of criminal offences, against whom criminal or criminal proceedings for certain acts are being conducted, but also that a person must contribute to the conviction of an authorised organisation that he is trained to handle firearms. So we had a situation, at least from black chronicles, to read how people who are mentally ill or incapable of weapons are using the same thing and where some examples of mass murder were, etc. The law also provides for the possibility of confiscation of weapons and ammunition, the arms sheet, or the authorisation to hold arms, in what way. 53 Also, which police administrations manage to control traffic, carrying arms and ammunition, keeping and installing weapons and ammunition, etc., etc. In my opinion, therefore, what is crucial to the competent police authorities – they will still have the authority to issue a gun authorisation and, in my opinion, this is a kind of harmonisation of the rules that are in our situation, so the country that still suffers the consequences of the war and the large amount of weapons that are illegally found, among other things, with private persons and we think that this area should be regulated and certainly should be both directly and indirectly contributing to the European path of BiH. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24100	I thank the Minister. But here, unfortunately, this law is in the first reading, but here's three times, so to speak, returned. We have three negative opinions. But here, I had a moment of recorded replica. We're having a discussion. Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24101	Thank you, Chairman. I think there's still a need to say more about this situation we're in, of course according to the time available. I think that this ministry and the interresor group have made an effort to make sure that a very important law, in good form, is delivered to parliamentary procedure and the adoption of this law is our obligation, therefore to the Parliamentary Assembly, which stems from a series of documents that we have signed, accepted or are participants in certain processes. Namely, the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Production and Transport (... illegal production, illegal arms trafficking) is the Convention in which we are participants and signatories and a set of laws that must be passed in order to get into a situation to implement this Convention is, among other things, a set of laws – the law on arms and arms transport. Second thing, of course Action Plan for Individual Action Partnership Programme, so-called The IPAP,... which we adopted and which is part of our commitment to joining the NATO Pact, is very clear, under the Co-ordination Committee for the Control of Light and Medium Weapons, states the need for adoption of this law. So we are also participants of the Partnership for Peace and we have signed, or adopted the so-called The IPAP and it states that this law is our obligation for the reason that there is a necessary need for these issues to be co-ordinated at the state level. The next thing is a number of directives that and in status when we have a Stabilisation Agreement with the EU need to be applied and very clearly states that certain registrations, state-level records simply must exist. And another thing, in Article 6. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements we have accepted the obligation to contribute, by contributing to regional stability, to fully control, among other things, the issue of cross-border arms transport, easy and small. So we accepted that obligation. 54 Finally, in the Roadmap for visa liberalisation, there is a very clear obligation in a special bloc concerning public order and security to adopt a set of laws regarding the UN Convention and the Council of Europe. Among other things, a set of arms laws, border control, arms traffic control, etc. It is a commitment that we have accepted and which we have taken over in the Mapa Road, because we want to liberalise the visa regime. And, you know, after all that we have accepted and what is very clearly stated, for the second or third time we have on the Commission MPs from the RS that this is not the jurisdiction of the state, that it is the competence of the RS. We're with this situation, with this situation that repeats itself at the Border Control Act and about the banking supervisory and this "Weapon Law" thing, we just can't go any further. Or, of the 120 measures, which have been located in the map of visa liberalisation, there are only 52 that have not been implemented. For 40 and something has been found, the way and the responsibility of who will carry them out and how they will carry them out. There are only about 8 to 10 issues left to resolve. Among them, the anti-corruption body at BiH level, the "Law on Border Control" and today's "Law on Weapons". So, what I'm saying is that the rejection of this law today means an uncertain period of postponement of visa waiver for BiH. It's a very simple consequence. So, the rejection of this law today means a vague period of time and an unseen period of delaying visa liberalisation until we adopt this law. Because it's very clear to the European Commission, when it comes to these things, here's your Roadmap – meet the conditions, problem solved. No conditions, no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24102	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24103	You got it. Replica, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24104	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I didn't think there was going to be a discussion about this opinion, because we've already had three discussions about this problem. I just want to say the opposite of what Mr. Halid, colleague Halid Genjac said, because there's one guilt being imposed here. It means that MPs from the RS and RS themselves are to blame why BiH does not get the visa regime! That's just not true. It is not true why I can accuse you, as you have accused us of this, that you are the culprits that you propose or your ministers propose anti-constitutional laws and you want what is written in the Constitution of BiH, which you are referring to, here is one of the laws, we were talking about "The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters", you want to insert parts that are anti-constitutional. It is not enough to simply refer to a provision of the Constitution so that one law can be found here in front of the MPs, and then put in its provisions a series of anti-constitutional provisions. You cannot pass laws in BiH in this way, and in particular you cannot accuse RS representatives of stopping BiH's development in this way. Go back to the beginning, pass laws and propose laws that are constitutional in the full sense, and not a little we call upon the Constitution, and then we will break this Constitution with various provisions inside. I think here is also the part about the proposal for a law on weapons and we were just talking about the Proposal for a Law on Dangerous Matters – unquestioned constitutional basis; means, transport between the inter-entity line, but it is questionable after who makes statements, regulation and 55 everything else. We are for those laws, but don't make us support the anti-constitutional provisions in those laws. Also, just because you were talking about the guilt of the RS MPs, I had an obligation to replicate and to say that there is no guilt, if we want to keep parts of the laws that are anti-constitutional. There is also no problem that the rules that are also very important for meeting those provisions or conditions for the visa regime are not brought to the Council of Ministers, and you know who is to blame, you know that. It's not true that biometric passports are the condition for visa-free regimes, that's not true. Our passports are much better than some biometric passports there, someone needs to take tender money for those passports, get these passports. Let us return to what we can agree, return to the constitutional framework of this country, and do not accuse the MPs of holding back the country's development.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24105	Here, and I'll have a little replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24106	The chairman, Mr. Beriz Belkić, has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24107	So, we, you, these, them, but that's the scheme we seem to be accusing each other of. So, if we have a full consensus that we need visa liberalisation and we have a full consensus that we meet the obligations that others prescribe, I am not excluding the possibility that we face the fact that some things are not in the jurisdiction of the state, that the Constitution of BiH does not know them and clearly does not state them. But I remind you if we want there to be a process of transfer of competence, so coordination, etc., I call on both the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers everywhere where it feels that it is not a clear and precise thing in the BiH Constitution – let the coordination process be launched. And let jurisdiction be transferred for what is necessary to do as a condition for what we have all defined together. So there's a solution. Let's move on to the replicas. Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24108	Very short. So, without the intention of talking about guilt, in this report from the committee in charge, we received a simple formulation: so many MPs voted "against", we had no ethnic votes "yes", because the Serb people's MPs voted "against". They're facts, and that's why the law didn't go through. So in the documents that I've listed, which we have signed with certain obligations, we've accepted and passed such a law. I fully agree that this law, perhaps, has been put into great effort by people, they have, in my opinion, made a good law, wherever there is a need to change has a procedure of business, there is also the submission of amendments. So we don't have to talk about it, but I think we need to make a maximum effort to preserve the possibility of passing that law for all the reasons listed. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24109	Let's move on to the replicas. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24110	I also thought there wouldn't be any special debate, since we've been pulling this ribbon long and, especially on the Commission there, we've said what we've had to say on many occasions, we've elaborated this on all sides. And it's clear to everyone what this is all about, and this is now a little bit transferred to the realm of pure politics. Well, here, let me say a few things. If it's in the map of the road, if it's on the list of conditions, no one has offered us the text of the law that we must adopt. Show if a certain text has come from Brussels with certain solutions and we will vote for that text. I'll bring you back when people from Brussels came into those laws and told the minister that it shouldn't have stood there. I'll go Vratić to that, so nobody, you forget that, when the DCAF people, when we went there, they came here, and they said who needed it. When they were doing this against European principles, did they think about visas at the time? So we were playing with something. It's been a while since we came from the international community and with things like that, and I appreciate it, maybe that's how it was at one point and they should have said, this can do this and just like this - and it wasn't there... This is where people say - bring the laws. They don't say exactly in the formulations of any law anywhere. Here, I'm talking about a set of these laws that are controversial, it's not just this one, there's more. Why were the amendments rejected? So the amendments were rejected, so we can only push this like this, you know who's voting, but you know who's the promoter, and you know who's doing what. No Niko's gonna give up their position and we got what we got. But it's incorrect to move to another area now, because you know that the Minister of Security isn't very good with these Brussels stories and visas and the rest of them, and don't put oil on fire. So, it wasn't us, we're here clean as a tear about that story. So, we're ready to move, get this story back a little bit. And it's known about the specific things that are involved and the remarks and the rest that it ends and that we're going in that direction. But in the direction that we have to do this just like this and just like this, we forget that we got into a good constitutional story and that some of the solutions that are being dragged away from a year or two ago are probably not going to be like that anymore. It's obvious, it's quite clear in that direction as well. But if we're even real, we have a chance to pass those laws. People are more and more telling us not to enter the structure and how it's going to be done. So, give it up and work out how you're gonna do it. And we're probably driving it our way here, because we think someone said it had to do something like this and it doesn't matter. Those times are over. We're going to have to deal with these things, we need to bring them in, but we need to make a deal. We had a little discussion, we said that the proposings don't make any effort. Here's the problem in this House... that someone is saying that someone should go to Banja Luka and spend two days agreeing on a solution, because as it is disputed. And if that's controversial, then we have this -- people from Banja Luka will come and have this attitude that they have. I think that we should once accept this kind of reality, knowing the structure and way of deciding both in committees and here in Parliament, that the proposings don't force spite and say - that, we're formally done, you have a proposal. And they didn't bother, so it's not just my concern that we get along, it's also a concern in the working group, it's also a concern in the 57 Council of Ministers and the College and everywhere in BiH there's every need for some consensus and for reconciliation. When he comes here with a revote, without consent, then we have, we have what we have. But I don't think it should be translated into this kind of policy around which BiH... I'm not saying,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24111	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24112	(I apologize, I end), I'm not saying that this isn't one of the problems either, but to translate that because of this, that we're just in trouble – it's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24113	Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24114	Here, these laws revolve around it, very important laws, round and round. They come here five times, they're rejected. It's our place to propose. Tell me what's acceptable to you people. So the Dayton Agreement envisioned what is the original jurisdiction of what level, what are divided and then said and everything else you agree to be transferred to the state. Now, there's one thing that's in front of everyone, but people don't seem to understand. It's not just for Sarajevo and it's not just for Bosniaks to pass on jurisdiction well so do something good for BiH. It is the impression that something RS has given, that some Srbin have given, or that they have lost something, that they have lost something. That's not true, they got it. See how it lived 10 years ago in the RS and how it lives today, just compare it simply to some measurable, take some quantifiable benchmarks and see how much it actually got with these reforms, from the military, from the common economic space, border controls on that path. We must continue on the European path, we must reach a visa-free regime, we must go towards the NATO Pact. I mean, it's not just for Bosniaks and it's not just for Hrvat and just for Sarajevo, it's for all of us and for you. I beg you, if anything is unacceptable to you, say what the problem is, and here's to finally solving this thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24115	Minister Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24116	Thank you, Chairman. I'm just for the sake of the truth, for the sake of knowing the facts, let me give a few clarifications. So, we are not in the Ministry of Security, we are not chasing any spite, we do not want to pass any bill proposals, but we have delivered, in writing, a request, a request to representatives, authorised representatives of the RS to participate in working groups to draft these laws. And how would you behave if people told you in writing that they wouldn't participate, as was the case here. One thing. 58 The second thing, as regards these two laws, which have been withdrawn for months, the proposal for a law on border control and the proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, therefore the amendments are fully in line. The Council of Ministers' opinion on these amendments was unanimously accepted. So now you have the Council of Ministers' position which unanimously supports this complete set of laws. There is now potentially another problem in Parliament. And the third important thing, Mr Kalabić, for the visa liberalisation map, is the most responsible person who is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who, among other things, directly corresponds to the Interresor Working Group for visa liberalisation. So, look at that, these are very clear things. I, of course, joined myself as Minister of Resorni in all those elements where there is responsibility and obligation of the Ministry. I assure you that this whole set of laws on weapons, on hazardous substances... is simply something that is of capital importance and that the European Commission would appreciate very much on the European path and on visa liberalisation. I can give you a few more things that are very important and that we will need to solve. The point isn't that we're transferring charges or responsibilities to each other now. But if we have a common goal, and we have, therefore, visa liberalisation, EU accession, NATO membership, etc. And if we have both indirect and direct obligations on that path, then the purpose is to work together on that path. But I really, I'm telling you right now, I don't know how to take the first step. If we unanimously take the Council of Ministers to decide to approach some law, then we need to form a task force, you have the first insurmountable obstacle because people tell you - we will not participate. How do we move on? Here, I'd like to ask you in that sense, so let's show one understanding. Here, I agree that maybe this law in certain things needs to be changed, but don't break it on principle. Come on, act amendment, the Council of Ministers will be declared. And let's see what the concrete proposals from the RS are, maybe they're acceptable to everyone, maybe they'll improve the text of the law. But as long as we don't see them, if we break this law on principle, then it's really a question of how to move on at all. Here, I hope this will be understood as an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24117	Thank you. Here, I'm out, and there's a replica. Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24118	It is not all, however, the fact that representatives of the Croatian people against this one law voted "against" in the Commission. So it's not like that and it doesn't have much to do with the story of the RS and the transfer of jurisdiction. There's one ineffectiveness in a set of these laws, which I called what I called, and it needs to be resolved. So, it's not true, people voted for their reasons, so I don't elaborate them now, why one of these laws isn't good. So it's not a question of representatives of the Serbian people, it's a slightly more complex issue than it tried to introduce itself. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24119	Now, unfortunately, we've learned more about some details about these laws than all the time we've lost about it. But here, I'm no longer registered, closing the debate on point 9 and taking a break until 15.00 hours as agreed. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats to keep working. So we keep working. We've reached point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24122	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! So it's similar to that difference you've listed, so five times, and in the case of this law, there's another important difference,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24123	May I have your attention, Mr. Jašarević?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24124	And that's that this law is finally in line with the Council of Ministers. We received a proposal in the Commission that was not acceptable. We've had objections from DCAF, this NGO from Geneva for control,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24125	Easy, Jozo. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24126	Civil control of the defence-security sector, their observations and the working group worked and the working group made amendments in line with the DCAF's views and these amendments were held at the Council of Ministers meeting and the Council of Ministers unanimously supported those amendments. This is the first reading. So when we talk about the law in first reading, then there's no amendment, right? However, I can say from here that I hope that all those who have so far supported this law are ready to accept and that what has been brought into line with the Council of Ministers as amendments when it is an amendment phase, to facilitate that the law finally goes through in the first reading. For this reason, I think that today we are here on this law, because it is a law which is actually the most important law in the Roadmap for visa liberalisation, should be addressed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić. I ask the services to inform, if he is here in Sarajevo, to come to Parliament and tell us what happened to that law at the Council of Ministers. We have a problem downstairs in the Commission. When it comes to the Commission last time there is no debate on the Commission, there is simply no vote from representatives of the Serb people. Even though this is how it is, it is a matter agreed on by the Council of Ministers. We have two exits now or to finish today definitely with this law, so we simply accept the Commission's report and we take it all down together and reopen the procedure, because it's no longer worth going to the Commission; or the chairman of the Council of Ministers comes today and says if that's what it is. If that is so, then I think that today we should, when we reject the Commission report, give guidance to the Commission. And if our guidelines were -- here you go, consider the law in the first reading, that's the text you have on you and that you know right away that this text, by decision of this house, is complemented by all that has been agreed in the Council of Ministers' session. And accept that in this amendment phase when the amendment phase opens. If we want to have this law, then this is the fastest way to get to the law. Therefore, I call on my colleagues to believe. If you do not believe, let Mr Špirić come here and let him say this or someone who is authorised on behalf of him, whether I have told the truth or not, and that after that, when we are giving guidance for the new report of this commission, we say that everything that has been agreed on by the Council of Ministers when considering the law in the first reading is taken into account. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24127	To tell you the truth, Šefik, I'm a little confused right now. I wish it had been said before the session, if you had such knowledge, so let me try, if you insist on the presence of Špirić and information by Špirić, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24128	Can I help?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24129	Well, you can help, here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24130	So everything depends on our colleagues coming from the RS entity. If we're going to have their support today, let this thing be checked out, I call on us to support this today, because this just doesn't make any sense anymore, and then of course there's no need for you to look for the chairman. I wanted this, so I wanted to see today's speaker here at the pay phone, and I know this for all of us here and for those who, at this point, maybe or until this moment, I don't know, because I guess they're not ready to uphold the law. And I am prepared to enter and suggest, therefore to you as chairman, that in the guidelines that we are going to install today we say that, at first reading, it must be installed immediately as a bill of law on the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24131	Thank you. I hope the others understood and heard what you were talking about. So we should procedurally repel our sixth opinion with guidelines to the competent commission. Here, I'm opening, of course, leaving an opportunity. Here, drago Kalabić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24132	Since the procedure is completely clear and the real thing is that the report will be rejected, then we have time to end it this way. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24133	Is it a question or a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24134	I have nothing and I would like this to be realized if Mr. Špirić came here. So if it is, I guess it's a problem; if it's not a problem, and then we'll be easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24135	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24136	All right, all right, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24137	So, after this discussion, I propose that the report, a negative Commission report, be rejected and that you, as chairman, propose a guideline – that the Commission should consider, when considering the law in the first reading, in addition to the existing text of the law that has come into the official parliamentary procedure, all that has been agreed on by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Nothing more. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24138	I thank you for your good intentions and for the help you provide me, but the guidelines stem from the debate and support of this home. Of course, I'm registering it. Here, if we're going further into the debate, here's the people calling. So we have Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Believe me, my best intention is to adopt this law, considering all its weight and importance. However, I think this is further grumbling between Parliament and the Commission. You see, it's been going on, I think, more than half a year already. I don't think it makes sense. What Džaferović suggested, we all thought in the Commission that in the meantime, between sitting and returning to the Commission of this case, there would be some constructive initiatives and there would be some clarification. I don't think this further delay makes any sense and we'll get to the law sooner if a Commission report is adopted today and a new solution is sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24140	I'm moving Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24141	Well, I'm not supposed to make suggestions after the president of the club, but I will. Simply, if we could provide the chairman of the Council of Ministers to state this fact, and for the first time to hear that the Council of Ministers agreed unanimously, was that, that was a good message. I suggest that before voting on this point, it means that if Mr. Špirić is there, before voting on this point, that he should address us and then we should vote for this point. I think that would be the most constructive proposal. If he's not here, then let him or his deputy or someone who's been to the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24142	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24143	Thank you. Most of what I wanted to say, said Mr. Bešlagić. I was really inclined to propose to accept the Commission's report. I have marked myself: at ten Commission meetings you have this law, by dates I have marked, at ten Commission meetings we are considering this law. But here, when a man removes all anger and anxiety from himself, I think what counterpart Džaferović has suggested is really the most constructive and, as I would say, the most well-meaning when a man thinks, if it is possible for someone to come here to take down the blockade and eventually get to the law. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24144	Look, we're serious people and we're grown men. If Mr. Džaferović has this information, and there is no reason not to believe him, however, the question is now being asked procedurally how to do so, if even all MPs here are committed in this direction. But here, I don't mind, if he insists, I'll try to make Mr. Špirić come. However, it is quite like this, to be very honest, what shall we ask Mr Špirić: is it true that you agreed to this etc? I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't believe it. So, the information we have, here's the additional, unfortunately, only during the debate is we get, it should be on the Commission famous, etc. The Commission was supposed to communicate with the Ministry, with the Council of Ministers, with people, etc., but here, we'll see how things develop when we vote. I'm out, I'm out. I'm out. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Of course, and with regrets, I don't see the mood in the sense of accepting this information as a sign that we could go to, but here, we'll see. We're going to point 11. Ad. 11. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on internal and maritime navigation (first reading) We are starting with the Commission's reports from the College. So, the College worked as the Commission on the alignment. Let's go first of all to the proposal for a law on internal and maritime navigation. There's no consent. Point 12. Ad. 12. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24150	You can do a little more.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24151	Well, here's the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24152	I'm your friend.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24153	All right, all right. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24154	If it makes you feel any better, on behalf of the club, I'm here. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24155	On behalf of the club, okay. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24156	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24157	Here's the President of the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24158	Here's just two sentences. The Commission considered, unanimously adopted and directed the House to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24159	Thank you very much. So I'm closing the debate on point 15. We're going to point 16. Ad.16. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Review of the 2007 Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Report At a joint session of both homes, we discussed the report of the Financial Audit Office, with a summary report from our Finance and Budget Commission. We now have on the agenda a report from the Office on the audit of the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions for 2007. I would also like to remind you that the summary report states that this report has also been given the opinion of the Reserve Office. In addition to the summary report covering the report from this point, we have a report from the Finance Commission and the budget on the audit carried out of the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions for 2009 which lists numerous suggestions, recommendations and conclusions. In particular, I recall the conclusions of the Commission Report on page 9. Reports directed by the Commission towards the House, namely consideration and adoption, which read: ‘The Commission will in cooperation with the Office establish supervision of the implementation of the recommendations of the revision referred to in Chapter 2 of this Report. 1 to 13 and provide feedback on their implementation by April 2009 at the latest. 'years.' You could've done this without Dom as a commission. With regard to the disagreements and errors observed by the Office in the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions for 2007 go in detail Chapter 2 of point 13. Reports: 'The Commission asks 66 Ministry to make recommended corrections to the 2007 Budget of the BiH Institutions Report and deliver them to the Commission within 30 days of the date of receipt of this report.' I apologize for being a little longer, but it was necessary and I hope we understand each other. Report report, audit report. But here, I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate on the 16th item of the agenda. Let's go to point 17. Ad. 17. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the CEFTA Programme, with an analysis of BiH's external trade in 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. My comments are: one part of the technical nature, and one part and essential when we talk about the material that we got here about the part in the introductory notes where some findings really, least of all, do not stand. For example, the effects of trade liberalisation in BiH so far, on the one hand, trade liberalisation has been exerting concrete pressure on domestic production, and on the other hand it has opened new markets for renewed production capacities. Therefore, I underline the word "renewed production capacity" and 67 contributed to the increased interest in direct foreign investment. It would be really nice if this were like this. And it would be nice if the effects of trade liberalisation contributed to foreign investment, but unfortunately they did not contribute and we do not have a certain increase in foreign investment as a result of trade liberalisation, and in particular we do not have renewed production capacity as a result. There's one word in the next paragraph, and here's what I think doesn't fit into what's written here. In this analysis, he says, "We have tried to respond to the demands of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly concerning the current effects of the CEFTA Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, since we have failed to find a sponsor to finance the development of a more comprehensive document." Look, this was written by the Ministry and signed by the minister. Of course, if we were to analyze this sentence now, then we could draw some very radical conclusions from it. First, this analysis is just a response to the parliamentary assembly's request. If it hadn't been for the parliamentary assembly's demands, it wouldn't have been there. And, on the other hand, that she wasn't comprehensive, because she had no one to finance. Not to say I don't use the term to sponsor, to sponsor the making of a more comprehensive document. I think it would be a good idea if people who do this work before they sign a document, maybe even read what these officials wrote, we probably wouldn't get this kind of thing here at Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24163	Jerko Ivanković
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24164	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, we can have more access to solving certain problems. I will now set an example that can point out that we should perhaps approach the situation when it comes to the foreign trade deficit and foreign trade policy. When a man is suffocating himself in a river, we can save him in two ways. One is to tell him that when summer comes to sea to enroll in a swimming course, to take a month or two days swimming course, and when he learns to swim then, when he finds himself in the river to take a shower, he won't choke but will swim. And the other way is when we see him choking to give him a hand, we take him out of the river, and then we tell him to take a course and do it so that it doesn't happen again. So we're in a situation where our general economy, economy, and especially agriculture, the soul in the river and mostly the proposals that come in this direction so far are going to need a course, a course, a summer, etc., and that means that they have no chance of experiencing it, because they're going to choke, all the measures will be in vain. So we can't say that the Ministry hasn't written much, that not a lot of measures have been proposed, that something hasn't been realized, but it's all close enough in the situation that we're in. One example that we have been listening to here for the last two years for this speaker, all representatives and the Council of Ministers, how we should strongly increase incentives to support our agriculture and, in some ways, to balance that exchange, especially with neighbouring countries, and then, now that it's finished in 2008, the Federation's Agriculture Development Strategy envisioned 100 million, and then the budget came and there was no money, adopted 50, and then when the budget was carried out, there was no money and only 22 realised. Neighbouring Croatia has singled out a billion and a half and paid a billion and a half, that's what their producers get and with these goods destroy our producers. A similar situation with neighbouring Serbia. 68 We can see this further from this Foreign Trade Exchange Report. So our deficit only increased in agricultural products more than we had all the exports in 2007. So, not only did our imports increase, but the entire deficit increased by that amount, and we wanted to cut it, because we import 2 billion and 620 million marks in last year's food. Practically, we can produce all of this without any problems, and more than that, and be an exporter of food like BiH once had a surplus in foreign trade. This all says that the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production, which we adopted in this home a year and a half ago almost if practically this home were right, if we had adopted that law, we would have had a far better situation, we would have in the budgets of the new 150-200 million, we would have a lower deficit, we would have greater employment and all the positive effects that come from it. But here, it's never too late to do that, and we'll have a chance, I hope, as we adopted the CEFTA unanimously to everyone in this house, that today we'll try to adopt a law that will now help, and then all of these measures proposed by the Council of Ministers, which were partially implemented, are not, in part, to insist on them, insist on new measures as well, as this Commission has proposed, in order to improve the whole state of affairs with the new measures of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24165	Thank you. List of discussions: next honourable MP Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24166	The esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will give a small review of the final consideration, and the review is similar to that made by counterpart Novaković, only for the opening part. In fact, on the 40th page of the mentioned material, the third or fourth paragraph, says: 'The trade deficit means that more is spent in one country than is produced. That is why the best way to improve trade balance and reduce trade deficits is to increase exports. It is therefore necessary to increase the production of quality and competitive goods on both domestic and foreign markets." I think it's really a shame that this discovery has been waiting this long. I guess this was announced earlier, so our deficit would be much smaller. And that is why I suggest, despite the fact that there were no sponsors, it will not be a problem to improve this material by making this sounding and undermining, by still having to give an additional explanation of this last sentence. He says, 'That is why it is necessary to increase the production of quality and competitive goods, both domestic and foreign markets.' I don't know where these markets are made of competitive goods. I mean a little explanation, a boulder and an undertone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24167	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24168	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, you see, when you give a commission this serious, not underestimating others, how we take much more and active participation in the debate today, that you know what we're doing. It was really funny, and it's not funny tragic. It's like every kid doesn't know, if he's six years old, he'll be better off if his mother feeds him than if he's hungry. Listen, we'll be better off exporting more than importing! Well, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's really, uh... It's a bit of a joke, and I don't know who's writing these texts to us, and it underestimates us. And yet, when you move on, then there's a globalization mentioned up there that was supposed to be, and I'm not counting all the inputs. That's all I want to warn you, as friends and colleagues, that we have so much to do on this committee, because I once said, not underestimating others, of course constitutionally, and all that matters, but here is from the export of pears, plums to arms and imports, paraphrasing. So it's all here. That's why we're at a deficit of 9.5 billion and some more marks. Now, the parameters that appear, it says: we increased exports in this year or we kept at the same level in 2007. What interests me in 2007, if that's when we failed, let's save this one. But in nominal terms, we've been spending a lot more money on imports, stockpiling up goods, which is why we're at a deficit of 9.5 billion. Furthermore, we only have a surplus, for a wonderful miracle, with Montenegro, Albania, so excuse us, gentlemen, who support that Kosovo is an independent country. No, it's not for me, it's for the province of Kosovo, and I was surprised we didn't have Moldova.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24169	The State of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24170	You didn't confuse me, you didn't confuse me, while I'm sitting in Parliament, not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24171	Please, I'm asking for some seriousness.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24172	That's good. This is good. This is good.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24173	A little bit of seriousness.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24174	So, from all these parameters when we see what we are importing, in which way we import, which is why we import, I ask you – and that's why I asked you not knowing about it... that it will arrive, that special session, so I gave up on special, with the House of Nations there is nothing we can agree on, but that we really take this seriously into consideration, but that all of them will come here, which is the Council of Ministers who always, I never forget, must establish the best coordination with entity governments, without them 70 won't do anything, so the Fiscal Council, the Board of Direct Taxation, the Chamber of Commerce, entity chambers, if necessary and cantonal, to carry out some public debate – can we go on like this?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24175	Presidents rule the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24176	Presidents? No, I said fiscal council, there's the president, okay. Presidents rule entities and parliaments, here. Everyone who knows something. And when people have been reading this seriously, I have seen, I admire that anyone wants to buy anything from us first. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Don't throw it away, people, I have a serious exposure. So, not to go all the way to the list, because the figures don't mean anything to anyone, only two figures here are important in terms of deficit and our number as many of us as we're going to survive here and together the peoples as they're going to survive. So that's the main number based on all of these parameters. If I didn't list this now, we'd be losing days here. Because when a man really gets into this, and I'm in because I've been up there, so I'm saying if I get this right, here's the chairman's seat, if I fall on the first exam, there's nothing. And now that I've mastered this, I don't care anymore, because I see that here are the biggest problems. So, to be serious, we're in a catastrophic situation. And I told the Commission, I don't want to call him the Jerka Lijanović law anymore, someone will think I'm lobbying for him, I don't care, I didn't take anything from him. But we have reached a conclusion and I asked, so laugh, if we pass that law, will the NATO Pact bomb us. So let's see if the taps turn over Croatia, and say, "Here we will make a deal with them." So how long will Croatia and Serbia blackmail us here? I have the best example. I'm not lobbying for Wittinka either. Witinka only exports 6 million marks to Novi Sad. Four months waiting for the trucks to get there, that seal to control the water's regularity, and their trucks haven't been waiting for two hours. Is that the problem with this House? Is that a problem for us? Yes, it is. Well, here's a new proposal. Let's get a joint commission with both Serbia and Croatia at two border crossings there or three here, so let's get them together and let their trucks and ours go at the same time. Well, we can't go any other way. And we wonder why we don't export. And these here wrote well - if we don't export we'll import more. Normally we'll import, we won't support. And come on, people, let's get this situation serious, no matter how much you laugh, I speak the language of the people. And this isn't an election campaign, this is a campaign for us to survive. And that campaign needs to be taken as serious as possible and we're all engaged here. What's going to happen to this thing? And there's no measure to change the situation right now. So please take this when you get here and, if you need to hold this special session that will be held for once, to prepare this, to be serious. I repeat three key things: the path to Europe, we are all agreed; whether we will survive, another; and whether we will be safe!? There's no fourth. Thank you very much. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24178	Wait a minute, let's ask the Honorable Parliament of the Okolić is this a replica or a discussion or is it a discussion and a replica, or is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24179	It's just a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24180	It's just a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24181	The replica to Mr. Jovičić, as he said he did not know who could sign this material, that he should have read and seen that it was Mladen Zirojević, Mr. Minister signed it. And only that he said he didn't know what party he was from and that he said, because he's unhappy with this material, that he needed to start an initiative to maybe change or someone else comes to his place. And if they do, we'll support it, it's no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24182	Dear Ambassador Jovičić, replica or reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24183	Sometimes I admire myself for being insightful, and this is exactly what I expected. To confirm now – Mr Mladen Zirojević is a minister in front of the SNSD and even I supported him. I didn't say who signed this in terms of signing down. This is all true, that's the problem. But Mladen Zirojević can't change this. Parliament can pass the law, the Council of Ministers can, not Mladen Zirojević, who has been sitting there for two months. So I gave him the support to be a minister, and I believe he'll make him a real minister, because he's a little out of time. He's been there for two months, people, and they wrote him all this. I say who here copied materials, as we have the heading "nuclear reactors." If... he hears we have whites on BiH as well. Where did we get the nuclear reactors? So, Mr. Okolić, let me tell you one more time. Fortunately, Mr. Mladen Zirojević is a minister in front of the SNSD and will never be a minister in front of the SDS, because he would never be a minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24184	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24185	Therefore, the material would be able to conclude that there is no problem with the use of CEFTA. The problem, at least in the ministry's view, is in the effects of the global economic crisis 72, which has been particularly reflected in the last two months of 2008. Also with the application of the SPP, this agreement signed with the EU, which came into effect last July, because the decline in coverage... of imports fell from 51% to 44%, means only in one half-year, and normally something needs to be done to protect domestic production. We're gonna do two of those things today, I guess we're gonna do it. One law that Mr. Jerko Ivanković has long proposed and may not be the perfect law, but it is the only thing we have available and because the Council of Ministers has not made us a better analysis, a better law, has proposed something that is more quality than that and more comprehensive. We need to get out of a passive role, which we've had so far, into an active one. So, adopt that law, so let them fix it and supplement it if they are not satisfied with it. The other thing is the help of a Bosnian-Herzegovina sugar shop. We can, you know, let that cane be imported there to France, 50 million kg, so it's processed into sugar, so we'll definitely eat that sugar here in BiH, because it's about a year or maybe two-year needs of BiH, 50 million pounds, or let it get into our sugar shop without that 10%, and again consume that sugar and don't pay for it. So, of course, it's better to get in than to get out of Slovenia or Serbia, or, I don't know, French processed sugar. So we have a chance to fix something today. Well, if that's not perfect, we have the Council of Ministers to fix things, let them see what else needs to be complemented. And now something that doesn't have much to do with today's topic but I can't help but pay attention to it, because they keep saying that in BiH the crisis has never been deeper, that it's never lived worse, that it can't take it anymore. Here, I'll just read some data. GDP (gross social product) 2000. - 10 billion; 2001. - 11 billion; 2002. - 13 billion; 2003. - 13.5 billion; 2004. - 15 billion; rounding up the figures, 2005. - 16 billion; 2006. — 18 billion; 2007. - 21 billion and 25 billion KM this year, we're making progress. Second, exports: 2000 – 2 billion and 200; 2001 - 2 and 300; 2002, during the Alliance, it fell a little to 2 thousand but then we already fixed it to 2.5; 2003, then 2004. - 3 billion and 2005. - 3 and 800, then 2006. - 5 billion; 2007. - 6 billion and last year - 6 and 700. So it's not exactly as black as the media represents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24186	Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24187	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I must say, it is good to get even this kind of report on the impact of CEFTA on what we expected. I have to say, I expected it to be a deficit, according to all those stories, for import goods right from neighbouring countries, and I'm glad they're in what we expected. So, this CEFTA had its own things, but, well, it's not exactly in that negative amount. However, I must say that in reviewing these materials at point 3 we have received a proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production where it can be seen, about, what materials in the field of 73 agriculture that we have imported, so these are living foods to tobacco and products and tobacco replacements. I think here, first of all, I suggest that the Foreign Trade Ministry be able to train experts who will be able to track and who will be able to give us individual items per product. But what's interesting here is that in the protection of domestic production we have very effective measures but they are very little applied. I'll give some examples, I think Mr. Jovičić said. When we want to export water, then we need to get out of the neighbouring country, to which we export, to get their atest and their consent that water is a quality that meets their regulations. I think that same measure means no protectionism, simply these measures, applied everywhere in the world, we should apply in BiH, for every type of product. I asked, since I came from this area of construction, I asked what would happen if a cement came to Slovenia, let's say, from Croatia without having a declaration of quality issued by the Slovenian Research Institute. The answer is simple – the goods would stand on customs until a home certificate was obtained in Slovenia that gives atest for the product. We can import everything without the control of our institutions, and then it's no wonder we have a deficit like this. I think that there lies one of the very important solutions that could be applied very quickly: that our inspection services only strengthen control of this quality and I think this import would be reduced, I say, by at least 20% to 30%. Therefore, I think that there is one of the very important elements of the deficit reduction, i.e. imports into our country, and I think that we should also oblige our trading houses to behave under that law. I'll give you one more example. For many years, a house has been testing rocks for the production of limestone, chalk and other things in BiH. Suddenly, a request came from Croatia for the export of stone, and the masalallah was good to go, production even increased, but they couldn't perform the stone until they got atest of the Institute of Construction, Croatian Construction. And what happens then? The director of the same house with the attaché rejects the house, which has been atesting it for 20 years, from BiH and says – I am sufficient for that atest. What's he saying? It says that our inspections, that our institutions do not respect, I would say, this state of BiH. I think that there is a great advantage and a possibility that if this is accepted as a suggestion, with inspection services and our controls, this is what brings this, I would say, deficit, or surplus in exports, imports are reduced to one normal that could be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24188	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is it a replica? Lately, it's a replica. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić. Here you go. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24190	Now, since I haven't answered for the debate before, I'm going through the replica to say a few of my disagreements with all those who, based on this report and otherwise, are looking at the situation very black. I'll say it's not like that. It's not for the simple reason why, when we look at exports, in this period that was indicated here, in 2000-2007, exports tripled. We have an annual average export growth rate of almost 20%, which is very significant. Let's look at it that way. I also disagree with all those who advocate some, I don't know, relationships with our neighbours in terms of something we should sharpen, etc. We don't need to tighten up with anyone, but we don't need to do business in particular. If we are looking at our relationships, rather than looking at the development of our economy, then we need it, the liberalisation is welcome and it is a chance for both of us and we can't expect everyone to be, like, open to us as much as possible, and that we're being set up differently for others. I agree with a part of Mr. selo's debate that said that we should do, that is, how we should strengthen our non-tariff barriers, which is that we are developing domestic institutions and that they control the quality of what comes in, not through customs. Customs are a category that will disappear completely from Europe's market and beyond, in a few years' time, and so forth. Therefore, we need to think in this way and thus contribute and strengthen our position, the position of our businesses. Now I'd like to give some examples. It's a typical example of non-tariff barriers that have been missed. Furthermore, this material would a little bit like writing so have some grudges but it's more style than it contains, the content is important. So when you look at, too, the implications of CEFTA on our economy don't stand, like an echo, claims that it's just a pity for us. These numbers deny it. And so let's not be judges before we do some sort of thing, let's now express myself in such a dictionary, an investigative procedure, and let's look at the facts. Let us examine the facts and conclude from them what they themselves mean. And here, for the end, how some things are done well. A good example is that we have grown exports, I don't know, milk and dairy products, I don't know, a few times and two-thirds of them we export, say, to Croatia. That's good, and that's an example of how maybe we should, by encouraging measures, strengthen our capacities and then look for space to export goods from our country, not vice versa. I'm not... guilty, so, eventually, I don't know, some kind of measure, shut down etc., but strengthen my capacities, strengthen our institutions' surveillance capacities, and then we can create good assumptions for our businesses, their exports and their growth. In addition, it is an important indicator, therefore, that the export coverage of imports in recent years is a trend of improvement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24191	Time! 75
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24192	Here, just one sentence. Improvements other than last year, i.e. 2007, i.e. 2008 That's one problem, but we have a trend of coverage, rising from 34% to 42%. I expect, if this continues, in this sense, that this trend of growth will be a situation, however, and be better.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24193	Jerko Ivanković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24194	Here, maybe just an explanation of a few things. Export coverage.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24195	Is it a replica or are there explanations?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24196	Replic, replica. In 2006, the coverage of imports by exporting 45.35%, in 2007, dropped to 42.71, and in 2008, as we received in the report, dropped to 41.72% by the ninth month. So we still have a negative trend. The report was made using, to a large extent, percentages that can be fooled. Let's say this example of exports of milk to Croatia, where we had a spectacular 34% increase in exports from BiH in the area of dairy labelling. And if you're just looking at that item, you'd say it's remarkable, but when you look at the full balance, then you see that 134 spectacular increases in exports have caused an increase in the deficit by several percent. So we had to have a far bigger export, because the basics are different. When you apply the percentages to our exports, they're enormous numbers, and when you apply small percentages to our imports, they're far, far larger figures. And, I may, my discussion may be experiencing that we need to sharpen relations with neighbors in this direction. I don't exactly consider it in that context. I think we need to improve our relationship, because they are sharp enough and are on the verge of the incident, because last year we donated to Serbia and Croatia, through the CEFTA Agreement, 2.5 billion, because we had a deficit of 2.5 billion with them. And we urgently need to improve relations with them to reduce you 2.5 billion, at least by 100 million or at least 200, 300 million, because the trend is still increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24197	We still have an application for a discussion of Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24198	Thank you. 76 Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I think that if we wanted to deal with this problem seriously, then it would take a little bit more time to have this material and study it a little more studioly, all of us. And I support those colleagues who spoke affirmably of all this material and, behold, I wanted to say a few words about the table on page 19 which, like this, gives me hope. If we speak here, we are actually talking about the structure of EU imports and if we look at the first five items, it is 41%, approximately, of the total imports and these first five items are, is five tariffs, the head. ... The first is nuclear reactors; we didn't import them and it's about boilers, machines, tools, mechanical devices, etc. The following are vehicles; other than railway, tram vehicles, parts, engines. The following are mineral fuels: oils, products and their distillation, then electric machines, equipment and parts and the fifth is iron and steel. All of this, in my opinion, serves to boost domestic production and it will give effect in the coming years and therefore I think this is very good. And I would stress this segment of this report, and these export things, of course, are, should be taken into account, but I think we should be optimistic about this whole problem, precisely because of these things that are shown in this table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24199	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24200	Replication to the presentation of colleagues Huskić. I wish we were all optimistic. This is what we're going to learn. This is what happened this year. Do we see how it's going this year? Who says one of these numbers will be this year? Well, don't give me optimism, I want to see real measures on the table, what we're going to save ourselves. I'm telling you, just before Mr. Izetbegović says it's not tragic. And I say no, and it's not, but see if we can figure out how this year is going. Does anyone think this is gonna stop with those numbers from last year? We'll take this to the knowledge that the best numbers or the worst ones, we can't change anything. But what measures do we take to keep this year from finding us with these numbers, to make them even better in our favor? That's what I keep pointing out, and it's not my intention to tighten my relationship with anyone, I'm not going with you colleagues, my friends, where I come from with a country like me. But I'm telling you, the car's already on its way. They're down the hill. What measures will that car stop us from going into the sun? I don't want this country to fall apart and me and her. That's what I'm warning you all the time. Write what numbers you want, take measures to save us, that's what I keep warning you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24201	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 17. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as Independent Authorities of the BiH Police Structure – Proposal for an Ad hoc Board of Appeals of Citizens 77 In short for a reminder, we received an earlier report that was incomplete, returned it, downloaded the agenda earlier, and here today we have a complete report. The Commission therefore proposes both members and presidents and deputies. So, the lists you got. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 19th point, that's this new agenda point, just one moment to read it correctly. Ad. 19. Information on floods in Pop's field, Krupa River and Hut's mud area, with a proposal for conclusions
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24204	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24205	Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank all the MPs who supported it, and everyone is, including this point in the agenda and I think it was a smart step and a good message. We shouldn't have turned that down. And I accept that it is possible to extend this information and conclusions, strengthen and elaborate on the basis of further information both from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other competent institutions. And I think that I have given sufficient grounds through six of these contributions and information and a proposal for conclusions that we put in charge of the Council of Ministers today that what we, or the competent ministry, are standing here in point 3 of the conclusion, in cooperation with the competent entity and county bodies, prepare a report on the state of the project of the Upper Horizons regarding these floods, and that this can serve them as a basis and that we then complete the debate and adopt the conclusion. Here, it is, I think it's correct and I accept it and here I suggest that in that way, that we don't have a wide debate today, but when we get this.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24207	I strongly support your recommendation, but here we have already been reported. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, as far as I understand it, there's been some kind of deal made, I don't know, though, I guess between the College and the Proposer, or who we're not having today's debate about this and that's how we end up. Unfortunately, the debate was conducted, the proposer pointed out, for example, the 3rd conclusion. So, he spoke and pointed out the 3rd conclusion, I guess, as the most important conclusion that he would task the Foreign Trade Ministry to determine the circumstances of the damage, regardless of what he wrote in the 2nd conclusion that the damage was caused by the release of large amounts of water from the hydropower plant. So basically we have a finding in the second conclusion of what the reason is, and then in the third, to examine what the reason is, be careful. So I wouldn't have called if we hadn't gotten into this story right now. And since we've already entered the story and the material delivered, I'll be very brief and, of course, I guess we'll have a later discussion. I must say, I absolutely cannot accept the findings that are mentioned here. And I talked, so I talked to some very serious people who understand themselves in this problem and I have to say that this is, therefore, a finding number two that is absolutely incorrect. Namely, here I have, say, three hydrograms for, say, November 2008, December 2008 and January 2009 when the floods from which it can be clearly seen, I don't know, blue and red lines, where it is clearly seen that at no point does the water drop is greater than the water flow and is not more than 300 m3 at any moment. Those who understand something down there, and I've been given some people who understand it, so they claim it's not a problem, and even the opposite, thanks to these dams, has prevented a much worse situation than it would have been. Of course, we could go further into the elaborates that I don't want to talk about today. I have to say that I even have photos here, but there are no cameras, and photos that clearly show one, two, and three, from which you can clearly see what caused the floods, or what caused them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24209	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24210	It's a professional thing, Mr. Džaferović, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24211	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24212	I was preparing for this point,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24213	Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24214	Since I knew it would be, and since my colleague announced yesterday, so 79
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24215	Please let the man speak. Patience a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24216	Since the point is open, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24217	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24218	Maybe it's not good that I've prepared myself, maybe it's best if I didn't prepare myself, and then we end up today in such a way that we can find the truth in a report. And I'm saying it's a lie and I'm saying that I have evidence, that I have proof that it's a lie. Of course, I'm not going to talk about building a bridge right now, about the failures, about building a bridge that led to the creation of a battery, I'm not going to talk about the water sources between the planes, and, I don't know, what people have explained to me and the new 300 cc's that touch and that caused the floods in Pop's field, etc. That's not what I'm talking I'll leave that for the next session, when we discuss this, it means a lot of what I have here. I'm just saying that if we leave this for the next session then no conclusion of the proposed conclusions can be debated today. A new conclusion may go that it is searching for the House, meaning Dom, not the Proposer, but that the House is asking the Council of Ministers to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the causes and consequences of the flood, and only then to discuss it in this way or in some other way. Maybe everything I said isn't true, I'll know that when the Council of Ministers delivers what is true. What I have is an opinion, meaning an expert, not only from Trebišnitsa Hydropower Plant but also from experts who are employed in other institutions, who have dealt with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24219	Obviously, we'll have more truth. Let's do the replicas first, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24220	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24221	Replica, is it Martine?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24222	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24223	I didn't have you. I had you reported in the discussion, I'm sorry. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24224	Well, here's a very short, respectful fact that we can't legally ban a debate. At first, Mr. Novaković said - it was not an agreement with the Kolegijum. We have reached one compromise, so here today this point is going, that we are not having a debate, and that there is a conclusion: that for the next Council of Ministers, prepares information with everything that is missing from this right now. And that was the goal. I think Mr. Novaković misrepresented it and, I don't know, figured it out as though there would be conclusions adopted today. That was our target from SNSD to support this point. And now I appeal that no debate is being held, that no debate is being held, and that, if we want to do so in quality, means no conclusions today, at the next session of the debate on these materials that are prepared here and those who, in conclusion, will be obliged by certain institutions to prepare them, above all, by the Council of Ministers. So, we have thus accepted, and under these conditions, that this point and we are now appealing, we will not participate today in the debate because we have agreed, for the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, to prepare the information. And on it, everyone will, everyone who thinks and says and adds.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24225	Replica, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24226	Here, I didn't really mean it, I thought I'd been abstentioned from both interpretations and conclusions. But I really can't understand this statement by Mr. Novaković, except that he's on his own right now, and that he's asking for some stuff here to the public, none of which he's absolutely not right, I have to react for the truth. So, the floods that happened, they happened because of the water drop, I didn't say who did it. Mr. Novaković, the director of that hydropower plant said they had to drop that water in those quantities of 500 m3 per second. I didn't say that. That's why they came, there's no others, let go of the diagrams, there's no water, there's no snow, the water came from above and flooded this field. Oh, let me go, you can't say it's an absolute lie, it's the only truth that floods are caused by an enormous drop of water from that. What's the cause? I haven't claimed here in a single word, nor have I prejudged. But this is absolutely true and all the reports will show. So, to be clear, you're saying it's absolutely false, and that's absolutely true. The second thing is, why did the waterwater stick to that high quota at a time when it was known that so much water was coming to that lake? I won't say it today, I'll say it next time. Now, there are 50 years of rules and diagrams that if you respected, there would be no flood. Now, that's completely true, but we'll talk about it next time. I didn't draw any conclusions, I'm not suggesting that my conclusions be you, Mr. Novaković, but we have to assign someone to deliver the information. I suggested that it be the Ministry, because before and after the Council of Ministers' decisions and that it falls within his jurisdiction, that, in cooperation with entity, not alone, authorities and competent ones, not prejudicing any decision, examine the circumstances of the damage. I think that's very correct. And I didn't get a lot of judgment anywhere, but instead of corporateing one, here's a professional and serious approach to the problem without politicizing what I wanted today. I went around that space, see, it really wasn't fair, nor on this point that... I'm bringing out absolute untruths here. You need to go down there, see that the lake was built in 81 Trebinje, not only, I didn't say here in the flat, but in Pop's entire field. What source waters, don't be, don't make cartoons out of human disasters and drama. And I won't anymore, I don't really want to, I think it was very correct and I've recognized correctness, I don't have to adopt any of my conclusions, I think it's correct, I've tried, let the Council of Ministers submit information, so let's have a debate. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24227	I have two replicas, Živković, and Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24228	Thank you, Chairman. All we had to do about this item of the agenda, which we agreed to present in this way here in the House, is that this conclusion, which reads: "The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is in charge of providing information on recent floods in Popo's field, Krupa River and in the area of Hut's mud." This is what we need to adopt here: to discuss with the information next time as agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24229	I hope this will contribute further to the debate. But here, I have more, replica Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24230	But nothing would have been disputed if that were the case, Mr. Živković. So, nothing would have been disputed if you gentlemen had said we weren't going to discuss this, the College and the Proposer agreed on the next conclusion and read the conclusion. We say okay and we discuss it next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24231	Here, I apologize, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24232	I went into the debate because the promoter went into the debate, so between his few conclusions, he said, here, this third conclusion. And I said that if we're going to come to conclusions, then this 2nd one, because it's going to come to the public before the debate, this material, then this 2nd one is incorrect. Now, Mr. Raguž says it's true. Obviously, the two of us in the next session are going to have to make an argument, so far I have it, and he has the word, 82.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24233	Well, leave it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24234	And I have pictures. Next time, maybe he'll have pictures too, and then we'll be able to confront the arguments here what's true and what's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24235	All right, all right. All right. I have a reported discussion of Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24236	Here, I wouldn't want to contribute any new applications to the debate if someone hadn't already checked in, and especially not to the replicas. But I'll just say a few things. The area, the area, the geographical area of the coast of Montenegro, Herzegovina, Dalmatia, including Lika, is one of the areas in Europe that have the highest annual rainfall levels. And somewhere around 1,600 to 2,000, even slightly more millimeters, and these rainfalls fall to 80% of their amount in the winter months, causing regularly very large floods. So these are very large amounts of water in a very short time. In the 1970s, our former state of Yugoslavia recognized the importance and capacity and value of this water resource in this area, so it was done, and neither do I, of the Trebizat system, (although it wasn't Trebišnjica, it wasn't completed completely, so the Upper Horizons remained incomplete and now need to be completed), via Neretva, Rama, Bus Lake, Cetina, etc., so to exploit this potential in hydrological terms of hydropower plants. Second, to ease floods, to reduce etc., but to make sure that the groundwater regime is not compromised. I'm mentioning this the last and perhaps most important. By building part of the Upper Horizon Project, which includes the waters of the Fatic and Gatta Field of People living in the Neretva Valley, I think not for no reason, they are afraid of the influence of these procedures on the underground water regime in the Neretva Valley. That this is a serious issue is also the fact that other people who want to help BiH have included in helping us, so in the last session, we ratified an agreement that is precisely, whose purpose and purpose is to see, in one professional way, without politics, what influences they are, whether they exist or what they are. So they're willing to finance that expertise from those funds. What happened a month ago? It happened that, in a short period of time, there was a lot of rain, rainfall, which then had effects as they were. But it's a matter of responsibility here now. Did the Trebišnica Hydro power plant properly control the lake level at the time? I don't think so. And that's basic, that's where the most important part of the problem begins. Next, then, of course, when big waters come, people have to save objects, you know what to do. But this is happening, not only when it comes to two entities. Four years ago, I think it was a blue wave on Neretva, too. Same thing again, I'd say. Again at the awkward time, therefore, the winter time when for the expected large quantities of rainfall happened that the water level in the accumulation Jablanic Lake was too high, could not receive all these waters, simply had to be saved objects, water flushed down Neretva, what happened in Mostar was, whether, and until today, people had no damages, etc., etc. 83 However, I come from that down south to Sarajevo often so I see. It is inadmissible for me that this year the same situation is very similar. For at least a month this winter, he worked, as it is called, topping or the foundation of the dam in Jablanica. Why? There's always something like that that finds them, it disappears. I say it is very questionable whether it is rightly mastered with these objects in terms of keeping the level at that height that it is. I'm convinced that if one right analysis were made, but it would show the analysis of course that the question of whether or not better financial effects were achieved or whether all the water that was missed would still be done, if it didn't go through the turbines, it would have gone blind, and if it had gone through the turbines, it would have produced an electrical energy energy and there would be no danger of floods. Here, let me get this straight. I think this is a very complex problem, and I don't need to be judged based on a little fact, and it would seem to me today, the best conclusion would be to look at this from all aspects, and that the Council of Ministers makes a report with all relevant data, and then we discuss it and point it out to all those who, I don't know either, in Trebinj, Mostar, Capljina, Jablanica, or anywhere to do their job responsibly. Because you know that for all rivers... and water streams running between several countries there are contracts between these countries that must be managed by these possible interventions in terms of hydropower plants etc., etc. Because nature doesn't know our human boundaries, this is what we've set, people have a deal or we're fighting where there's a limit, where it's not, etc. so that nothing should be concluded today except that the Council of Ministers (this is my proposal, I think we all agree on it) draws up a report and meets Parliament and then we can open up a real debate and invite everyone responsible to do their work in accordance with both the professions and the regulations, etc., and not to do what they will or do not follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24237	I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate on item 19. Moving to final point, point 20. Ad. 20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on the readmission of persons staying without a permit, (b) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on the Facilitation of Visas, (c) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – "Project Corridor Vc", (d) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH, representing the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Government of the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Minister of Finance, on Financial Cooperation, (e) Agreement on the Protection of Secret Information between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia, (f) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the field of Culture, (g) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on Return and the Government of Persons whose entry or stay between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of the European Union and the European Union, and the European Union's Security and the Council on the Security of Security of Security of the European Union, the European Union and the European Union and the European Union, and the European Union for the European Union, and the European Union, and the European Union for the implementation of the European Union for the European Union, and the European Union for the European Union, and the European Union, and the European Union, and the European Union for the European Union, and for the implementation, and for the implementation of the implementation of the European Union for the implementation of the implementation of the European Union for the implementation of the European Union in the European Union. For all these agreements, you have the opinion of our committee in charge. You got them on the bench. Are there any reports of a hearing? But, before I say a word, here's a suggestion, to have a joint discussion, we had this practice, about all the proposed agreements. Do you agree with that? Okay. So we're having a discussion about everything. Mr. Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24239	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, it is not common for us to hold a debate when it comes to ratification of certain agreements or conventions,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24240	But it's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24241	but I only want to say one sentence, that I am pleased that the BiH Presidency has referred the World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control to parliamentary procedure, and the Foreign Ministry has prepared for the Presidency. And I would just like to say that it is very important that the BiH authorities implement all the provisions of this Convention. I, as an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and four years ago, through a parliamentary issue, initiated that BiH should ratify this convention. In fact, I would like to conclude that unfortunately, often in BiH, therefore, the institutions of government, a very long procedure is being implemented for the arrival of certain agreements and conventions for ratification in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24242	Thank you, Mr. Prodanović. But here, we've got to move on. Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24243	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, respected guests, I, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, will stress very briefly that in these agreements for which 85 should today, in the context of a statement in the House of Representatives, give consent to ratification, there is one part of very significant agreements, although conditionally said, in some ways all international agreements have their weight and importance, but here I would particularly like to highlight the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on visa waivers, and in a way indirectly linked and such an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland on re-accepting persons who are staying without permission, readmission, is whether. These agreements with Switzerland must simply be concluded, as has been clarified by representatives of the competent ministry working on the preparation of these agreements, given that Switzerland is not an EU member, so agreements that speak of visa relief or the reading of persons that BiH has already signed with the EU do not apply to a country such as Switzerland or Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, which are not members of the EU and with which BiH must enter bilateral agreements of this kind. The Foreign Affairs Committee gave a favourable opinion yesterday at its session almost on all these agreements, except with a few abstentions, but it was broadly unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24244	Thank you, Mr. Matić. It's useful information. Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24245	Well, I'd like to say that I express my personal satisfaction and that Mr. Prodanović actually said everything I wanted to say about the tobacco deal. I hope that BiH will fully implement all the items of this agreement and that we will finally, in some ways, be members of the EU that will recognise tobacco as a means of disease and carry out a whole series of promotional activities to protect citizens' health. What I would say is that this Memorandum of Understanding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the sedmi okviran Programme of the European Community for research and technological development and demonstration activities is actually one, as I would say, a crucial moment in scientific research within BiH, given the fact that, according to the percentage of gross national income allocated to science, we are about 30 to 50 times less percentage than in the 1990s, and that it is actually possible that BiH and BiH citizens working in scientific research can compete for FP7 projects as partners. And it is indeed one crucial moment and I would like to express my gratitude, in some way my satisfaction, because so far we have been able to apply to these competitions, which are extremely important, which are easy, which allow anyone who in any way wants to do scientific research work, one decent way of doing this work, that means teams, BiH scientific research teams can be project bearers, not just partners of EU member states. I hope that actually the operationalisation and transparency of information related to this ratification will be timely, given the fact that we have a five-year period that is already going on. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24246	Here, this way, we don't have any more reports. Of course, here I am, on behalf of the passive smokers, welcoming this tobacco convention, etc. So here we conclude the work of today's session. We'll vote in 15 minutes, due to the conditions of the road, so that people can move as fast as possible. So, please don't be late, 3:00 to 5:00, and about this convention, Šefik. [[PAUZA]] Please hurry, the snow is falling, the roads are covered. It's okay. Please take your seats. Slavko, Milica! Can we go? Please prepare, let's go. So, the minutes of the 45th session, with those remarks, if you remember page 8, about the findings of the Guarantee Fund Act. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for", (22 Federation, 12 RS) – absolute and entity majority. I find that we have adopted a record from the 45th session of the House of Representatives. Let's go to point 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act (second reading). So, in the debate, there were several proposals about the delay, etc. So, before declaring ourselves to be determined on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mirko Okolić. We have reached agreement in consultation with Mirko Okolić to vote on point 1. Therefore, to postpone the statement on the draft law in the second reading at today's session, because extending the deadline for the amendment phase is not possible and the opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation has been prepared. So, we understand each other, we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24248	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-02-18-0.u24249	Unfortunately, the promoter did not specify. Jozo, maybe it wasn't burning that you were on time. Okay. So, with the authority of Koelgi to determine the time when we will plead. Okay. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 "for", (13 from the Federation, five from the RS), nine "against". 87 I agree that this conclusion was adopted, proposed by Mirko Okolić, to delay the statement on the bill's proposal in the second reading and by the College's assessment, when it comes to time, when we will reactivate it. Let's go to point 4. Statement in the second reading on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement – Proposer: Mr Jerko Ivanković. Let me remind you, Mr. Ivanković even suggested that he step down but here, it's not suggestive. Stand by to galvanize. Vote now! 22 "for" (17 from the Federation, five RS). The law on the protection of domestic production has been passed. Let's go to point 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposer: Adem Huskić. We also have a proposal here for one conclusion. So please prepare yourselves. First we go about the law, get ready to make a statement about this law. Vote now! 30 "for" (18 Federation, 12 RS). The law was given both a general and an entity majority, so it was adopted in a second reading. In addition to this law, we have a proposal for a conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers to inform the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within 15 days of the concrete measures and activities taken to resolve the legal status of the Official Journal of BiH.' Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 31 "for" (19 Federation, 12 RS). This conclusion has been adopted. We're going to point six. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (22 Federation, 12 RS). I find that the proposal for a law on public procurement, in the first reading, has been adopted. ... unanimously, as Mr. Jovičić said, just a little bit, so it is understood by the Commission's view that a public debate will take place, of course. We're going to point 7. Proposal for a Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading). Please prepare to vote. 88 Vote now! 24 "for" (22 Federation, two RS), we have no entity support from RS. We can't get the alignment done right now. Afterwards, according to the Rules of Procedure, we will do so within the scheduled time limit. We're going to point 8. Proposal for a Law on the Postales of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (22 Federation, 12 RS). And the bill of mail, in the first reading, was passed. We're going to point 9. A proposal for a gun law, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Therefore, if the Opinion is adopted, this law has been rejected; if the Opinion is not adopted, the proposal for a law will return to the Commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (Federation 11, RS 12). ... The law has fallen, the Commission's opinion has been adopted. Let's go to point 10. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security. We are pleading on the opinion of the Joint Commission. If the Joint Commission's opinion is adopted, the law has fallen, if not, back to this commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 "for" (Federation seven, RS 12). So we don't have entity support from the Federation. It's a match. We're going to point 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on internal and maritime navigation (first reading). We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! ‘For’ 22, 11 ‘against’ from the RS. The law didn't pass or, rather, the law fell. Let's go to point 12. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions (first reading). Same thing, no consent, we vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. 89 Vote now! 23 "for" (22 Federation, one RS), 11 "against". The law is down. Let's go to point 13. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund (first reading). There's no consent. We vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 23 "for" (22 Federation, one RS), 11 "against". Also... The proposal for a guarantee fund law has not been adopted. Let's go to point 14. Please, Mr. Huskić, did you need anything? Let's go to point 14. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration for the debate on the Information of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the Director of the Directorate for Eurical Integration. Also, there was no consent. And here we vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 "for" (20 Federation, one RS), 11 "against". The proposal for this conclusion has not been adopted. Moving to point 15. Financial report by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on 31.12.2006 and 31/12/2007, with the opinion of the authorised auditor. So we're voting on the Financial Report, with the opinion of the authorised auditor and the report of the committee responsible. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 29 "for" (17 Federation, 12 RS). We have enough general and entity majority. I find that the finansijski Report of the Audit Office has been adopted. We're going to point 16. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the audit of the 2007 Budget of the BiH Institutions report. We also vote on the Office Report, with the Commission's report and with the conclusion and recommendations. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 27 "for" (18 Federation, nine RS), sufficient both general and entity majority. The Office’s report, with the Commission’s report and conclusions and recommendations, was adopted. Let's go to point 17. A report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the CEFTA Programme, with an analysis of BiH's external trade for 2008. So, the vote on the Action Plan Implementation Report, with the opinion of the 90 Commission and the conclusion contained in the opinion and the vote on receiving an analysis of BiH's external trade in 2008, with the Commission's opinion. So we'd have to vote twice. I don't mind, if that's okay with you. Of course, you know the point. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 27 "for" (19 Federation, 8 RS). A report on the implementation of the Action Plan, with Opinion, has been adopted and has been adopted, with the Commission's opinion, of an analysis of the external trade exchange in BiH. Point 18. The appointment of the president, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of the BiH police structure. Proposal for an Ad hoc Joint Commission to implement the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeal. So we're voting on lists. We have a floor: 1. List of candidates for members of the Independent Committee with the president and vice president: - Žiko Krunić, president - Bakir Dautbašić, vice president, - Mato Jozić, member, - Viktor Dadić, member - Stanko Nuić, member, - Zijad Kadić, member, - Vojin Bera, member, - Dragan Savić, member - Samir Rizvo, member. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 "for" (16 Federation, five RS). I find that we have elected members of the Independent Committee and the president and vice president of the Independent Committee. We're going to the list of candidates for members of the Citizens' Appeals Committee. It is proposed: - Lidija Bagarić, president - Slavojka Gluhović, vice president - Željko Travar, member - Danica Berić, member - Lejla Bagović, member - Refik Džubur, member - Sead Hadžić, member. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 "for" (16 Federation, five RS). We have enough general and entity majority. 91 I agree that we have elected members of the Citizens' Appeals Committee, as well as the chairman of that committee and the vice president. Moving to point 19. Information about the floods in Pop's field, the Krupa River and the Hut mud area, with a proposal for conclusions. Practically, as I understand it, we agreed to declare this one conclusion, which reads: "The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is in charge of providing information on recent floods in Popo's field, the Krupa River and Hut's mud" until the next session of the House, of course, using this information that we had today. Is it okay? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (22 Federation, 12 RS). Enough, both general and entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. So we're left with a point 20. Giving consent to ratify all these agreements. Shall we vote in the package? Do you agree? So I agree that the House is determined to vote in a package on all ratification agreements. So, get ready to vote. Vote now! Just a little more patience, please. 33 "for" (21 Federation, 12 RS). I find that all these agreements we have established as the agenda for today's session have been adopted. Is this enough for you, Rajka, that I don't have to read, that I don't have to read? Okay, thank you. So this is how we conclude the work of today's 46th session, with information that the next session is 4. Isn't that right, Branka, March 4th? I wish you a happy journey and a safe journey home. The session is over at 5:10 p.m.
