ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31355	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 67th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Comrades and fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests. In addition to the MPs, we normally invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations, as well as NGOs who follow the work of our House. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as media representatives. According to our service, 31 MPs are present. Mr. Jerko Ivanković justified his absence. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. As you know, today's session has only one item on the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31356	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected media representatives. On the basis of Article 65, Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit to you the next Proposal for an addition of the agenda of the 67th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. I propose that after considering the budget, therefore, that this be the second item of the agenda, we today put a new item of the agenda bearing the next name – Considering the conclusions on the withdrawal of diplomatic passports to ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers, MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In addition to the proposal for this item of the agenda, I also submit a proposal for conclusions. So, in the first conclusion, I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives invite all ministers to the BiH Council of Ministers, MPs and delegates in Parliamentary Assembly 2 BiH to return diplomatic passports by 31.12.2009 at the latest to share the fate of all BiH citizens. The second conclusion is that this conclusion is in place to fully liberalise the visa regime for all BiH citizens. And the third conclusion, that today, as the PSBiH House of Representatives, we send a public apology to the citizens of BiH for the negative consequences of blocking the visa liberalisation process. At the same time, I believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should today be sent to the citizens of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia whose citizens have been free to travel to Schengen countries since 19 December this year. In view of this truly sad picture in BiH and the sad knowledge that the entire region and neighbouring countries and their citizens can now travel freely to Schengen countries, and that BiH citizens are condemned, as worst hostages, to stand in huge ranks in front of diplomatic and consular representations, and that we know well who is carrying the blame here, of course, I would also list the presidents of the ruling parties, however, as they are not here at the state level, we can only invite them, but I did not quote them in these conclusions. I think the least we can do at this point is adopt these conclusions today and finely return our diplomatic passports so that we can, therefore, share the fate of BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31358	I deliver a complete proposal in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31359	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31360	I have to replicate, because on December 23rd there should be preparations for Christmas, at least for us Catholics, and I have nothing against today's session so that BiH's institutions have a budget. However, the expansion of the agenda in this way, my contribution to this agenda point is that I suggest we return diplomatic passports, not take them away from us. We're not any criminals, we stole those passports somewhere, so somebody's taking them away from us now. 3 I suggest that we return the passports to one conclusion and not travel anywhere. That's the point of this point. So, that ministers, nor MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can travel anywhere, to hit the Chinese wall around BiH, because that's the point here today. And if Mr. Bećirović insists on this point, let it be a special session and the day after tomorrow, we will celebrate Christmas, and let it be debated here whether it will be taken away or not, but I, as Vinko Zorić, speak personally now, because I have not consulted anyone else, I am ready to return my passport, I need no one to take it away from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31361	Thank you. The second vice-president, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31362	I have a kind of replica to practice. So, we have an extended college, not disputing, of course, every MP's right, but this is already one practice, so we have an extended college of this House of Representatives that determines the agenda. So, why wasn't this SDP initiative on the extended college this morning? In this way we question the function of the Expansive College in general, not contesting, of course, the right to initiative, or content. So, I join, Mr. Bećirović, the need for a kind of moral and public responsibility and agree with Mr. Zorić, so it is up to us to travel or not travel. I haven't traveled since May when I told the public I wasn't traveling. I don't need to take away a passport, or any of you, as Mr Zorić says, why take away, it's a matter of moral relations, i.e. responsibilities to the non-fulfilment of certain conditions. But I insist and beg the MPs, through their representatives in the Expansive College, that all initiatives and ideas can be discussed before the session, prepared, agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31363	Thank you. We have three replicas. I would ask you to shorten this kind of prejudice on the agenda, but here. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31364	First, let's get this section straight around the extended college. So whenever a SDP MP's club proposes an initiative, it does so in time and our representatives in the College of Representatives' House, when, to be precise, it is the SDP's initiative. When individual MPs suggest something, then it doesn't have to be the club's position, because, let us, apart from being collectively members of the club, we act individually as MPs. 4 Secondly, when it comes to these upcoming Christmas holidays, New Year's and all other holidays, that's why we should take this step today, because citizens of all neighbouring countries, but I repeat, not a small number within the government, but broad layers of society, they just wanted these Christmas holidays, New Year's, etc., to spend with their friends, with their families and families across Europe, but because of this situation, people can't do it. So that's an additional reason for us to be solidarity with every citizen in this country. And, of course, this is just a call, not a conclusion that some people wanted to play here, as if it were an intrusion, etc. In view of the first of these conclusions, all ministers, MPs and delegates are called. So let each of them decide, if we accept these conclusions today, how and how it will work.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31365	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31366	But believe me, I want to make that very clear in the end, the least of the problems are the form, what we are going to do today, the biggest problem is that truly BiH citizens have become the only hostages in the region, so in Southeast Europe and that someone in this country must finally give a serious answer to that question. The answer isn't to hear them transfer responsibility to each other all the time, and the people in this country are in this one, at the very least, sad situation. It may have been a lot, since, here, some MPs are getting to talk about it, but I don't think it's enough, because the situation is much harder than anyone can explain here in parliament right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31367	Thank you. I'm asking you not to try to turn today's session into something we haven't met for, but if it has to. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31368	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers and other guests. I think it's totally inappropriate to talk about this today. I thought today we were going to focus on one single item of the agenda that I think is of the greatest importance to the largest number of citizens of this country. However, as counterpart Belkić said recently, which has been going on for a long time, colleagues from the SDP have indeed abused the Rules of Procedure. I have to say it. 5 I think that this is one, as counterpart Bećirović said, a classic demagogue approach because cameras were present here, that it has nothing to do with the position of citizens or that he has no concern or responsibility for the position of citizens, but I agree that it is unfortunate that BiH does not have a visa regime free. Here, I will be credible, without any call, I am handing it over to you, Mr. Chairman, this diplomatic passport of mine, I do not want to use it until BiH visas are lifted. I just want to say that this situation that we're in, I don't think there's a responsibility here in this room. I think that responsibility does not even lie within BiH, that responsibility lies somewhere else, because, in my opinion, visa liberalisation has been given to neighbouring countries which have also failed to meet the conditions set for them, which is now a matter of European policy that we cannot influence. BiH citizens are hostages, but I don't think they're hostages to what's going on in this room, but a much wider context, and in a sign, I would say, protesting such a relationship with BiH citizens, I don't want to use my passport. I invite my colleague Bećirović to do the same, and everyone else who thinks it is, let everyone do what they think is best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31369	Wait a minute, please. The addresses where the passports are handed over are addresses where they were issued. Therefore, do not teach at the wrong address. We're not archivals here, but we're moving on. The list of replicas, Ekrem Ajanović, an honourable MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31370	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I've appreciated today, and I appreciate the gentleman who suggested this. I must say, I have a passport, and in these three years I've gone twice, once to Bulgaria, once to Switzerland. But this demagogue proposal, it's the collapse of the state as well as the many other actions that are destroying the state. How people don't realize that there would be complete paralysis, that BiH, as a state, could no longer function at all, and that is why I am that we reject these stupid initiatives, no matter who proposed them, not to court our voters.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31371	I ask you to treat us with respect. Dear Ambassador, Momčilo Novaković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. First, I think the proposal is contrary to Article 62, point 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which speaks of the emergency call of the House's meetings. The spirit of that member is, in fact, that whoever and at whose request the session is called, is proposing the agenda and that this agenda may be proposed at the session itself. So, it means 6 that 10 MPs, chairor or deputy in urgent cases, are proposing, and they are, in fact, giving these measures, these sessions. Any extension of the agenda, I think it's the opposite of article 62, item 3. Rules of Procedure. As far as some business objections to this initiative are concerned. As far as the initiative itself is concerned, I don't mind opening up a debate on this at one of the next sessions or establishing the degree of responsibility for non-compliance with the conditions, means, and the degree of responsibility of this Parliament, but we also determine the degree of responsibility of others participating in this entire chain. And of course, when it comes to passports, I don't know how I'm gonna get my passport back because I can't find it because I'm not traveling anywhere, so believe me, and I forgot where I left it since last term.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31373	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, discussion of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31374	Yes, the discussion, thank you, Chairman. Members, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the discussion is about this new item proposed for the agenda. I would like to remind this house that, during the debate on the visa liberalisation report, when we received a negative report, we had this conclusion that I was proposing that MPs and ministers be invited to return diplomatic passports for the assessment we received. Unfortunately, in this home he did not get support and I think that behind this followed what we have today, and this is an invitation that each of us, feeling morally responsible for this problem, act as the chairman has said. If we accept the debate on this item of the agenda, above all, our conclusion should be respected that we are delivered in a certain period of time a report on the realization of our obligations regarding progress in visa liberalisation and that we see exactly where we are and who is the cause of the situation in which we are and these obligations that are not respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31375	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31376	Mr. Chairman, I join all those who think that today is neither the time nor the place to discuss this, respecting, normally, the right of MPs to propose. It's very interesting that the same issue is the media in the hallway, as is this initiative by Mr. Denis. So the same question they were asking is exactly the same as his initiative, which we were answering. I mean, I respect that propriety, but I think it should be directed towards 7 in order for BiH to meet the conditions. So this string is used for some other things instead of being used for these positive things. So let each of us make our contribution, so we don't demagoguely approach. We know who needs to do what, and we all need to focus on finishing our duties. All the time we've been dealing with grief and views across the board, instead of doing our job. Here, and today we're trying to do it a little bit instead of still saying we're appealing to finish our part of the job and not complain to anyone, but to do our part of the job. So, about that, but I'm a little surprised that in this proposal, or I didn't hear it right, there was no paying back. So why don't you go along with the man handing over his salary and passport together? What's a simple citizen, a SDP fan, than I hand him a passport, will he be better off for these holidays? But he'd be better off if I gave him a passport and at the same time half his salary. Now, that proposal, you see, isn't here in this story when it's called, because then you can do it, but so we don't get into a situation where you do it, it's better as a demagogue passport, which is miserable as it is now. We have this story about visas and citizens who can't, and that something passport that has, which Mr. Ajanović just said, if those who have come back, then we'd just have a real blockade, what if we had what we have (?Or I didn't hear right. Either I didn't hear right or that proposal went to invite people to return that salary money, of all things, from the passports, so that at least someone could see some kind of faye from some concrete move.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31377	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31378	I do not believe that it will speed up obtaining a visa-free regime if we make life more complicated with our travels to the EU. I don't think so. How can that help? Now, from this home, the five of us should travel to the Council of Europe in late January, and we will leave. Only if we get the diplomatic passports back, then we'll have to take out the ordinary passports, so we'll have to take out the visas. So it'll all cost money and time and, after all, we'll leave. It's just that these things are gonna be more complicated, harder and cost money. And I don't see how we can help anything if we, I say, complicate communications with the EU, slow them down. So we'll be against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31379	Thank you. Let's move on, replicas. Dear Ambassador, Sefer Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31380	Well, to tell you the truth, I didn't mean this nonsense to discuss, because I think at the very least that, perhaps this is too harsh a word, nonsense, but Mr Bećirović obviously made a mistake here. I am against this initiative because this is actually one of the ways in which and how to explain, the inability of the ruling coalition to solve a single issue in this country, and also a question of the visa regime. Because here we hear, I see, and by the media 8 of the parties from the Federation of BiH are fighting, accusing the parties from RS, here, from the RS are being accused by the Federation of BiH. I'm sorry, you're a coalition, so since you don't exactly like to be a coalition, you're often called some kind of partner government that was a coalition of 2-3 hours while you divided the armchairs and you're actually responsible for this situation that the citizens were brought into. It's not the opposition, it's the ruling coalition that has a two-thirds majority here that can change the Constitution, and they don't need anyone else for that but you. Therefore, one of these points of incompetence is also to ensure citizens... and this is the easiest way to explain the inability of the ruling coalition to address the burning issues in BiH. I am one of the MPs who has not made any official journeys or will do it in the next term, and I will travel privately whenever I can financially and timely when I can, and whether I will travel with diplomatic or without diplomatic passports, it's totally irrelevant. So, according to this question, I am completely indifferent, I consider it a propaganda trick, but here it is clear who is to blame and once again point to the inability of this authority to solve any issue and the issue of the visa regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31381	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31382	Dear Chairman, I think we should really break up with this, but I have to say I'm disappointed how much our MPs don't know what it means, I'd say, a diplomatic passport, and what that passport means. We both need visas and don't let us tell the story, please. You know a few countries you don't need. Therefore, we all have this passport and if anyone is considered moral, I suggest that he hand it over and we end it. So he accepted, he didn't accept. But to congratulate the citizens of Serbia, Croatia, or Montenegro on what they have won the visa-free regime, I am not ashamed. And third thing, I think I'd like to ask my colleague Kalabić not to always throw in what we're proposing. Mr. Bećirović has suggested, and you can after the amendment act on his proposals, so you can insert these suggestions around the salary, we will accept your idea, if that is the case. Therefore, do not add anything more than is provided in the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31383	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, discussion. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, NGOs, representatives of information and the international community, I hope that I will not cause the controversy, or the replica, and that this will end the debate over this point, so before I realize that this is an extraordinary session, it means it is regular, but it is extraordinaryly scheduled for the budget and, of course, it is right before Catholic Christmas and I do not think it is correct for Hrvat celebrating Catholic Christmas today to burden the agenda except for what is scheduled. And it's not correct, especially if it's known that by putting today's agenda, possibly, these agenda points, we're not going to end anything. The question is, I'm about to run for the agenda one day, the way it was now in the proposal or something like that, and to discuss it only and then to discuss it as much as anyone wants and the way they want it, of course, all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But the question now arises, is it better here to woo voters behind which there is nothing but mere advocacy or is it better to press someone to finish their work so that we can get visa liberalisation as soon as possible? And as for the apology of our citizens, I, as an opposition, have no reason to apologize to the citizens at all because we in front of the SDS are not to blame for not even carrying power. If they need to apologize for what they didn't do, and they might have done it, let the parties that hold most of this parliament do it, we from the opposition have no reason to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31385	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31386	I'll use my second replica to answer some questions. First, there is no abuse of the Rules of Procedure here, but it is precisely stated which member of the Rules of Procedure we are referring to, therefore, everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, it is not good that all our culprits are outside BiH, and there is absolutely no one here who wants to take responsibility for this situation in BiH. Third, some say this is the collapse of the BiH state because individuals responsible for this situation would return diplomatic passports. It's a pure replacement of thesis and needs to be very clearly established. When diplomatic passports return, no one prohibits ministers and MPs from taking out ordinary passports, like all people in this country. Here, counterpart Bešlagić said that there is little drastic difference, therefore, in sharing the fate of BiH citizens. The collapse of the state is, in fact, the unresponsibility and non-compliance of the conditions which are why we are in this position today. This move also has a symbolic message. In fact, we are all aware that the government can do 100 years without visa liberalisation. People travel uninterrupted, for them there are no such blockades as exist for 10 ordinary citizens. She has the folk proverb “Sit, apparently, does not believe hungry. ” Someone even came to the point where he said that the same question was asked by MP Bećirović and the same issue of media, like, there's some sort of splinter. Neither have I consulted any media, nor have I been consulted by the media, but the fact is that all the people in this country are thinking about it and the fact is that we've all felt sad these days, not sad that others are moving forward, but that we're not going forward too. We see what happens in other countries, we see how much this means for the citizens of neighbouring countries, and BiH remains in the position it remains. And more sadly, this is the least possible sanction that can be made if we can even call this a sanction. For this condition, if happiness had happened in other countries, the whole Council of Ministers would have been replaced, there would have been a lot more sanctions. Here even, here, no moral act like this seems to have any support. So, if it weren't for what my colleague Huskić said, if this were demagogy, you voted, didn't vote for this act, this is my diplomatic passport, which I have the same as you, I am returning it today in accordance with the proposal for conclusion 2 until the full liberalisation of the visa regime, and until then, everyone should assume their share of responsibility. And to help Mr. Živković, I will return him to the right address. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31387	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31388	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My replica refers to those discussions that say that distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović has abused the Rules of Procedure in terms of proposing a new agenda. Namely, it's not his abuse, it's his right to propose a agenda point as a representative. However, it seems to me that his abuse of the conclusion proposed by his esteemed counterpart, Nanić, is as a representative from the SDA's Club of Representatives. If someone essentially wants to engage in the problem of visa liberalisation, then, if nothing, should read those materials or conditions, those 11 conditions still need to be met by BiH in order to obtain a white Schengen. I expected this information line to work in the SDP Club and counterpart Selim Bešlagić was present on Monday at the Commission for European Integrations when we discussed this issue and when we were informed of which 11 other conditions BiH should meet. If there's a need, here, I'm ready to come to the SDP Club and inform them of those 11 conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31389	No microphone 11 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31390	Wait a minute, don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31391	If, I say, there are problems in the functioning of the SDP Club, if not, that's better, but, in any case, if someone wants to deal with this problem essentially, they should read it. Of course, it is the right of every MP to do as counterpart Denis Bećirović did and in the SDA's Club of Representatives there was talk about it and, of course, we will define ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31392	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31393	Proposer, honourable MP Bećirović repeatedly reiterated the state's exclusive responsibility for the visa regime. I'm saying here, I've spoken several times, whoever decided on the visa regime, about visas, so, the European Commission, who decided there in front of the EU, used double standards, wanted, someone to punish this country, to punish the peoples of this country. Therefore, it is not exclusive responsibility in the state, in its institutions and bodies. So it is responsibility for this and for those who have decided on this visa regime, so those from the European Commission. This is where we need to know when these things were discussed. I would ask the promoter, if he could make what Vinko Zorić said to write, to change this name to the agenda point, meaning – Considering the return conclusions, not the confiscation, about returning the passport of MPs, delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31394	Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, replica. That's wrong, you gave up. Thank you. I'm closing the discussion on the agenda. In the College, too, we considered the remarks that the honourable MP Novaković stated, we believe that the proposer, and the proposer, the College, had the right, in accordance with Article 62, to propose the agenda even at the session itself. However, in accordance with Article 65, the debate on this proposed agenda is open, and that means having the right to propose new points, so we have to put this to the vote, and I'm going to do it now. 12 So, the additional proposal by Mr Bećirović for the agenda item number 2 is – Considering the conclusions on the withdrawal of diplomatic passports to ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers, MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 8, versus 22, abstentions 3.. I'm konstatovati this proposal hasn't gotten most of it. Now I'm going to read the adopted agenda 1. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations 2010 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, Law No 01, 02-02-4-12009, of 21.12.2009. (first reading) At the same time, colleagues and fellow MPs, before opening the debate on the budget, I would like to introduce you to the fact that in the meantime the MP passed away and the chairman of this house, Mr. Pero Skopljak, that in the Knight today is the funeral at 13:30 and that we should pay tribute to the minutes of silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31396	The BiH presidency submitted a draft law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2010. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Constitutional Commission delivered an opinion on the constitutional basis of the draft law. On 22.12., the Commission responsible for finance and the budget delivered its opinion on the same day and unanimously adopted the three conclusions you received in the Commission's report and I do not think there is a need to read them, given that they are big conclusions. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in my first reading. I ask the Proposer – does he need to explain? There isn't. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31397	Thank you. I welcome the esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the BiH Council of Ministers and other guests. As you said, the Commission has received a new Budget Proposal, a colleague of Remzi, to be serious, this is still parliament, and... has unanimously adopted. To me, as President of the Commission, it is regrettable that we have met at all and I think that today's session is unnecessary, that we have caused unnecessary costs, because we have done nothing new that we could not do the last time. This is just costing taxpayers, BiH citizens. But, my Bog, the budget is a very important thing when 13 we know it's the IMF, and we need to adopt it, if we have to, we're going to work every day until New Year's end. Just a few minutes, so you've got the conclusions, three conclusions. You have an explanation, so 35,000 thousand now, the fiscal framework remains the same, with members of the BiH presidency agreeing that 35,000 for refugees are going to the Return Fund. I must say... the chairman of the commission, that these funds have been transferred to the Fund, even though the Resolute Ministry, I think it's on the Council of Ministers whether it goes through the Ministry. But it's important that these funds have... to be realised. It's very important that for this amount that's been reduced, that the reduced material costs are all 17.6%, so the maltenes are linear and that's a big deal. We also insisted on the Commission that for 14 institutions, there is a conclusion here, respect for what the BiH Parliament has adopted, 10% to reduce their budget for the teams and for these other things, as is said for the nice things, the costs of the team. Material costs have been reduced, except for the Office for Audit, you have here letters, RAC, Central Election Commission and Administration. Also, the expenditures of the Border Crossing Management have been reduced at a total amount of one and a half million. So now that budget is totaling 1.028,034,000,00, is lower by 1% compared to 2009. The service of external debt is 341.635,000.00, smaller by 42.333.00 or 11% compared to 2009. I said I'm against this kind of thing... from year to year we have a smaller state budget, less interventions and a single account, so we're strengthening entities, we're weakening the state. I've never... been and we've always been, laugh, drago, but you won't be long, it all comes to an end, so you and your politics will probably come. There is also a conclusion about the cost of the lease, and I think that, here, and a colleague chairing Živković... discussion and there have been more discussions here and earlier budgets, not to... Inconceivable that the costs of leases rise compared to last year, we know that the recession, the crisis, the fall in real estate, the decline in the price of services, only with us, we know that there are contracts and for a long time, we need to see when these contracts were made, whether it was the Public Procurement Act and the tender, because I think that there are high prices, that there are individuals who have great benefits at the expense of the state. The state bought even... the embassy in Brussels, so it cut somewhere, but again incomes, cost of renting growth. This is where the BiH Council of Ministers must do more, there were more proposals here, if one should also be in charge of the state to buy the premises, and to solve our embassies. I would no longer, so, about this lease, the BiH Council of Ministers has to go, so capital investment, is now planned to buy in Belgrade and Zagreb, which is quite OK. And to go further, to cut these costs, to lease, and to review all the leases the state pays its revenues on, because I think there are a lot of unwarranted ones, which the state is now paying for. I thank and call on the MPs to... and to adopt the budget at a shortened amendment stage, by the New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31398	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31399	Thank you. Three years in a row, we get a budget from the BiH presidency by revoted one member of the presidency and we get assurances that it will be repaired at the commission stage. And in those three years, no SNSD amendment was accepted. Therefore, we no longer had any confidence in those who assured us that this year too would be repaired in any way at the commission stage. If something unnecessary was done, it was needlessly done in the BiH presidency, that the budget should be conceived in this way, that the recommendations of the Fiscal Council should not be respected and Article 5 be violated. The Fiscal Council Act. Therefore, it was unnecessary in the BiH presidency. of those people who don't live in reality who want to put their personal goals or some wishes into the budget. When we talk about the fact that every year the budget of BiH is being weakened at the expense of the entities, it is simply not true in numbers, and when you see in the context of the state budgets, both Croatia and Serbia and all others, you see that they are reduced, both in the rebalancing and in the framework. Therefore, this finding is not correct and it is obvious that it is one political flossule that does not pass only with those(?) who, when they take a pen and paper, calculate what happens in the environment and what happens in BiH. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31400	Replication to the presentation of the esteemed counterpart Bahtić, although he, in the last part of the discussion, denied himself, but, behold, I will repeat what he said. I don't think it's right that... working for the good of the entity is working for the good of the state, at this point we know what kind of problems and social and every other kind of entity is facing. And Mr. Bahtić said in his discussion what at this point, in a difficult situation like this the state is doing – it's wasting money on leases, it's wasting money on... (?) around the world, it's spoiling them on different sides. So, we have, if we want that story, one maybe the waste of the state at the expense of these categories that are citizens of this country and who have their own problems, which at this point, at this time, at this structure, solve entities with their budgets and which, to be clear, are absolutely unsatisfactory for that kind of need. It shouldn't be repeated that at this point the state institutions don't solve these problems, they spend money on wages, they spend on leases, and I don't know about the others... I don't argue that it's necessary, but when you talk about those categories, then it's not right that we're looking further at this point to deny these social categories of money for these needs. I don't dispute these needs either, but in this time, the question now is whether it's all, I don't know, and that story about the embassy and about this and about that, but here, now let's not open it. And here I fully support Mr. Bahtić and I am ready to sign that invoice to a member of the BiH presidency who caused these costs and that you are packing it to him today, I think he is powerful and that he is calming down, that it can be calculated exactly how much it is, because at this point we can precisely mathematically express it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31401	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, replica. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31402	Well, gentlemen dear, the only authorised draftr of the budget is the BiH Presidency, for now it is, until it changes differently, and for us the valid document is just the one that comes from the BiH presidency. I understand the Fiscal Council, he takes care of the revenues and the real budget, however, we know well and who sits in the Fiscal Council and how it is done and what the emphasis and the revotes are, all of this is well known. And for that reason, I'm saying, if we could have done that day in phase two... if we had adopted the first reading, the same thing would have happened, what we're doing today, we'd be doing, in phase two, it would have been the same thing. So it would be unnecessary, couldn't we have adopted the first reading last time and at phase two to adopt this? And, colleague Kalabić, I know exactly where social policy is going and how you run the social policy from the SNSD, especially at the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. I asked the Deputy Minister – did he... The Council of Ministers, these 35,000 grand to the Presidency, went to go through the Ministry or the Fund? I was told twice, he called, not from the ministry called people to go to the fund. Neither the minister nor his deputy called, yet again someone from the SNSD, the parallel lines are functioning. That's ugly, that's the way they're supposed to fit. There must be a ministry, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Finance, the Presidency, and not some private phone stories there, a party line, and there's an idea of what's going on. And everything that's going on there, and illegally, anything else, is being invoiced on the work of the Minister and the Ministry. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31403	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31404	Mr. President, I will replicate on your discussion. The main thing is that the BiH presidency sent the budget into the procedure in time. And the first reading didn't go away because you voted against it too, against the budget. And all that happened then, it could later be fixed in phase two, because the minister who spoke then asked us to adopt us in the first reading, and that it would all... end. Therefore, the BiH presidency sent this increased budget by 26 or seven million, quite justified, because it is intended for the return of people. And whether they cross that number or not, it was up to us to amend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31405	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, come in. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31406	So I have a similar situation, I know it's hard to admit that the president was wrong, the party president is infallible and then in various ways you're trying to avoid, but then you better keep your mouth shut. Because when I add up your discussions, both colleagues, you see that Mr. Silajdžić is wrong, but if he could be someone else now. From our point of view, there can be no one else. Mr. Bahtić said he is the mandated proposer of the BiH presidency and all the schedule we received from the BiH presidency. The Bureau decided not to go to the ministry, but to go to the Return Fund. So the BiH Presidency decided, so Mr Silajdžić decided, don't do... here, what are you saying now that Mr Silajdžić can be affected by some phone calls of various kinds? I don't think he can, not going in as he is, that's his decision, you said yourself that the BiH presidency is an authorised promoter. Well, she's good, so I don't know if she's good or not, but don't make her someone else, so...This is the BiH presidency's position. Well, I guess you're closer to the party president than we do to the SNSD, if he's under the influence of the SNSD, then let him finish some other things that need to be done. The other thing, this policy, if they come to this, is not good with it (?I think we should stop it, these are the funds for that category, and we don't drag too much of that tape, if it controls our or your being anyway. It's part of the ministry, it's part of this Council of Ministers of BiH, we have reached a conclusion on the Commission that this Parliament controls the use of these funds and I think it's too much of that story if this is going to be different or I don't know, I don't think it is, I think the funds (?) The Return Fund is our institution. The Fund will use these funds the way this Parliament is controlled and I think we should break up with such stories, after all, this is also the Council of Ministers' budget chosen by this Parliament and I think we can always get all the information we need. And maybe it's easier that on your behalf, you've said everything except this last sentence, so you've given the argument that Mr. Silajdžić is guilty, and it's only for me to say it, that's the case. No president is without sin, so what would we defend now...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31407	Wait a minute, let's see, honourable Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31408	Thank you. I will be brief, I am not here as a lawyer for any member of the BiH presidency, but I am here protecting the BiH presidency's institution. I thank the Presidency that it still managed to add another 24.5 million for refugees and displaced persons, no matter who did it, it was done thanks to them. And they cut the cost of all of us, and that's where I end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31409	Thank you. 17 The honourable apostle Adem Huskić continues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31410	I also wanted to say that I thank Mr Radmanović, who was against last time, the only voice that was against, who now supported the budget, so he was unanimously adopted. And he accepted, of course, this extra tranche for refugees.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31411	Thank you. Let's go in turn, discussion, honourable MP Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31412	It's not worth looking for, uh, a discussion here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would be extremely good, regardless of what fellow Bahtić reported as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission and gave some reasons and, of course, his opinion on the budget, as an MP, if the motion had appeared, that would have been normal and order, because we found the proposal this morning, the Budget Bill, which we did not have enough time to compare it from page to page with that budget we had a few days ago and which did not pass then at first reading. And it would be good if the promoter told us, I'm even asking, as far as possible, what are the differences between the draft budget that came in the last term and today, whether the remarks that were made through the discussions at the last session were respected. And to make it easier for us to track and save time, and it could help us even more, to tell us exactly which item has been changed, which is not, so we could simply open up the original proposal and this proposal now. Otherwise, we're gonna have to waste a lot of time or maybe ask for a break, which I don't think is meaningful, it'd be better if he did. And then we'll see what's left of what we've been through our discussions in the last session, asked for, adopted, and what isn't. If something is adopted, and I don't think it's what we from the SDS discussed, and if it isn't adopted, most likely that we won't support the bill today in the first reading, and that we're going to submit amendments for the second reading, and about the fate of the second reading, we're going to see how it goes, we're going to decide our amendments that will be submitted. Thank you very much, so, once again, my suggestion is that the motionary, what I was talking about, present to us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31413	Thank you. I just want to point out, the Ministry has asked if he'll answer, he hasn't answered. But also, you got this budget 21 or 22 in the morning at clubs, not this morning. And in this proposal, there is an explanation, on two pages, of the new items that have been done. But you have to go around clubs a little more often and see what materials you get in clubs, not that we're talking about not getting it. We got it all, there's an explanation and everything needs to be read. 18 Dear Messenger Mirko Okolić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31414	Well, look, this is a little incorrect. I didn't mean to attack anyone at all, which is why I got this proposal this morning. But, simply, by your discussion, I'm invited to say so. I don't think I have to come here or any MP at a time when there are no sessions or when there are no commissions or any other activities due to the cost of coming. After all, I didn't get this proposal through college, through e-mail, or by anyone's name, and I was told that the Budget Law bill was delivered to our club, that it was done, I would probably manage to get to this proposal. Everything I know, I know from the means of information. So if someone delivered it to me, let it be... obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31415	21st everyone has been invited to this session with a agenda point, the materials are being downloaded to the place where they are being taken over. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31416	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. Although I presented the essence of my view of the 2010 budget seven days ago, in the first attempt to adopt principles, and there is almost no change in my opinion. However, I must present several of my observations to this material before us this time. Seven days ago, the principles of the budget were not supported by the House because there was no entity majority, and the media and some party representatives conveyed that not only the RS parties voted for the principles, which is not true. The principles on which the first version of the 2010 budget rested were not supported either by me, nor by any other representatives of the opposition parties in the BiH Parliament. I will not enter into the reasons of other parties that did not support the principles seven days ago, but I would like to say that I did not support the principles of the first version of the budget because the concept of the budget did not come from BiH today, and unfortunately tomorrow, facing the severe consequences of the economic crisis and recession, and that the budget must largely respect these consequences. Instead of a budget with anti-crisis elements, we got a budget from which we could draw the conclusion that nothing is happening. Despite the little cosmetic procedures, there is no change in this second version of the budget that we have on the table today. According to the usual political scenario, first things are unrealized in the first version, and then it comes under quotes, big concern for the returnees, and then, generously, on the burden of allegedly megalomanically planned costs, increases the item for the returnees and unreal gets political points. 19 I am not glad that even after these small plastic operations, I would say, on the first version of the budget, we are ahead of ourselves, not only do we not have an anti-crisis and stabilising budget which would be normal at this time, but we have a budget with elements of waste. For us, for God's sake, it's stabilising that the level of expenditure relative to the 2009 budget is lower by 50 million KM. If we know that we are transferring from the 2008 and 2009 budget over the next year the amount of unsustained funds of 121 million KM, then we do not have to stress how much we are in the role of stabilisers and co-ordinators as a consequence of the economic crisis and recession. It is not appropriate for us to plan the budget in this way, in a situation that is comparable to our 2009 budget. I cannot accept the argument that there are no data on the implementation of the budget at least for the 9th, 10th or 11th month and that at the end of the 12th month we use data on the achievement in six months. I think it was correct that for this opportunity, at least as a benchmark, they use budget estimates for 2009. That the results are well-known, it also says that we plan precisely, therefore, the neutral assets transferred from 2008 to 2009 to the budget revenue side for 2010 and that we know precisely that it is 121 million KM. So, with all due respect to the desire to bring the 2010 budget to a time when it is normal, I will not support the principles on which this budget rests, because despite the little cosmetic procedures on the first version, this budget, instead of anti-crisis elements, also has elements of waste behaviour. It is no secret that some budget users at the end of the year have a problem with how to spend budget-planned funds. While on the other hand we have an economy that is choking, we have a further tendency to reduce the competitiveness of our products on the market, we have announcements of an expected reduction, including poor pensions, and up to 20%, we have citizens with social needs who haven't received their social needs for months... It would be good if the Commission's conclusions on budget and finance were the principles of the draft budgetor, and in this form, as the Commission now proposes, I think that this has already been seen and that there is no fide from it. So I don't support ignoring the consequences of the economic crisis and recession in this way, and I especially don't support the fact that an alibi for this kind of behavior is required in supposed luck to provide as much resources for the state as possible. That is, therefore, my principled reasons why I will not support the principles on which this 2010 budget rests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31417	Thank you. Replica, Honourable Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to replicate to you, namely, about Mr. Okolić's discussion, you put the accent on a completely irrelevant part of the discussion, which is whether we got or didn't get the materials in time. And not to the essential part of the discussion, which is to have the minister come out before any debate, and to say what it is that has been changed in this budget compared to the previous budget, what it is that has been respected by the ministry and the minister in relation to the discussions that were here at parliament. And, in the end, it would be correct of the promoter, or whoever is authorized on behalf of the motionor, to explain the first budget, and only then would we be able to discuss it. That was the point, if I could take my right to interpret Mr. Okolić's discussion, his discussion, and I would beg, if possible, for the minister to come out and say so. I won't answer for the debate, namely, everything I meant to say, I said last time, I checked now, what I suggested is not respected. So I won't answer for the discussion, I'll do it in the second reading and, of course, I won't support the principles of the budget. But that doesn't matter, I'd ask the minister to come out and say what's appreciated and what's not. Did we have a free debate here last time or not? Which is why these remarks are not respected and why we are put in a position to discuss again in the same way as we have already discussed the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31419	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31420	Of course, this isn't the perfect budget, but given the possibilities of our relationship, I think it's acceptable. What we regularly insist on every year and which we are not satisfied with this time is support for our return. It has been slightly improved through interventions in the BiH presidency, but last year we reached a conclusion, so the BiH Parliament tasked the BiH Council of Ministers with taking action to charge BiH with 400m KM and thus supported the Innovated Return Strategy. I was on the Standing Committee a few days ago and at the Bureau, Monitoring the Bureau of the Council of Europe, where they have again insisted on adopting the Innovationed Return Strategy and ask that the funds that will support the strategy be found, through the implementation of the conclusion of this home almost a year ago, since February of this year, tasked with the BiH Council of Ministers to find 400 million funds. And I use the opportunity that the finance minister is there, to ask him, to appeal to him and to ask him today – at what stage of this activity, what are the chances of finally supporting a loan return?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31421	Dear Ambassador Husein Nanić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31422	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like, through a debate on this budget, to point out, that is, that is, to request further interpretation on the five items concerned by this budget. The first of them are, I'd like the minister, if possible today, to respond. Mine removal centre, 8845,000.00 was planned, something very small, actually 8244,000.00 slightly less than the 2009 execution, 189 employees, of which there are 500 thousand capital, 500 thousand marks of only capital investments. I'm really asking the question, and I haven't found anywhere else in the budget that there are some funds planned for demining. Demining activities in BiH are daily, huge funds are being spent there, and I ask the question – where are these assets 21 hidden, how do these funds go through BiH institutions, since I really don't see a reason if 189 people work at the Centre for Demining and Spending 99% of these funds on salaries, 8.5 million marks? Another thing I'd like to hear here, also regarding the budget, I haven't been able to see anywhere in which way this budget is, or future budgets related to so-called. IPA projects. In 2009, 89m euros were planned by the European Commission, which will be placed in BiH, in no way do I see the link between the budget, between the vault, between the Ministry of Finance and these funds, given that these are significant funds, I would ask to see how this is related to our budgets and how the records will be kept regarding these funds. The third thing is that we do not have, on one issue I have asked, a public investment programme in BiH, a three-year-old that is being done. From this programme of public investment, we could see several years of investment programmes in BiH, and this is related to the rental programmes, this funding in BiH (?). And this conclusion number 2 which the Commission has adopted, I think it must be linked, given that the conclusion is inconclusive unless we have those funds neither planned in this budget nor in the funds for the multiannual budget. The fourth thing I'd like to see here in the budget, and it's gone, I haven't found it, is about our external debt. We heard last time that BiH's external debt is 4.2 billion marks, a total external debt, but here we have registered an annual external debt of 341 million. I'd like to, there's no explanation or data on our total external debt. I think it would be good information for both the public and our MPs, to see in the official document that we have the data of what our external debt is, to whom it relates, and what the structure of this external debt is and to which it is part of our budget. And I would like the minister to deliver on these matters a position, as well as on these proposed conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission, so that in the second reading, I have a clear position on whether and in any way to make amendments to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31423	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Martin Raguž, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31424	I thank the president, and thank Mr. Džaferović for his support. Because it's so much easier to run out into the field when the audience is for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31425	Don't blame him (?You go ahead. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31426	Well, well, we're breaking this atmosphere a little bit. What Mr. Izetbegović has asked now is a question, I must say, I officially asked and received an answer from the BiH Council of Ministers at the last session, I don't know if he was there. So, I'm glad that there are thoughts going in this direction that we don't forget our own conclusion, and this Parliament's own own conclusion is one of the most important conclusions that it has ever made in the past year, is that this country is in charge of 400 million KM for the most important issue for this country, to return. Unfortunately, we did not receive a relevant answer after a year from the BiH Council of Ministers, why and how long it came. Last time we received only a partial response that could satisfy, i.e., who contacted about the duties, which all international institutions had contacted, which refused to finance and which, under what conditions, indicated the possibility of providing these funds from which the return process would continue to be financed. Well, for example, it was said there, in that response, that the Council of Europe Development Bank refused to do so. Here, I would ask our representatives in the Council of Europe to check why and whether there are any special circumstances under which they are willing to give. But I think it is unforgivable that one year after this House's conclusion, we do not have any relevant programme and project and a hint that we will get close to the insurance of those funds. And regarding the adoption of this budget, I would like to say that it would be good for us today to adopt the conclusion that we should give a deadline to the BiH Council of Ministers, for a maximum of half a year, to shorten this deadline, to come to a more realistic and concrete step in this conclusion. And that will be the proposal for a conclusion that I will propose regarding the adoption of this budget. Secondly, in the HDZ 1990s, we welcome the consensus reached on this in the BiH presidency, and we believe that this is a very relaxing situation, that we need to adopt this budget. It is good that it has been recognised that the issue of return, even with such a shift, needs to be placed in this budget and that, in my view, is a major advance in understanding the importance of this issue. As far as the current situation is concerned, not only in the country, in BiH, but in the world when it comes to recession and crisis. What Mr Dolić was saying, we can all talk about it, but we need to know what the competencies of BiH and its institutions are and that it has no jurisdiction, simply from this key, crucial part to oppose and take measures, unfortunately. And this is now the issue that we keep coming back to – can this country have a strategy, and when it comes to protecting their own production, promoting agriculture, education and so on? Unfortunately, it does not have that constitutional competence, and therefore we cannot place the main responsibility on the BiH Council of Ministers or BiH institutions, although, of course, we cannot all run away from that responsibility together. Therefore, it is up to us to create assumptions that BiH will receive leverage and instruments that it can adequately respond to these challenges. At what pace and dynamics it will go, it remains to be seen. Until then, if there is one shift, and a shift exists in the consensus and treatment of these issues, although it is within the limits set by the Fiscal Council, I think today we can support this budget, with these conclusions. Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31427	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31428	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, we are again at the budget debate, although a lot has already been said in previous consideration of the principles of the institutions' budget and international obligations of BiH. Likewise, I assume that we are all aware of the specific weights of the necessary budgetary coordination at all levels of government in BiH, within the framework agreed through the decisions and work of the Fiscal Council and the necessary alignment with the frameworks agreed with international financial institutions, I am above all referring to the obligations arising from the Memorandum, i.e. letters of intent relating to the stand-by arrangement. I want to mention in particular that no budget, no proposal is perfect. And, here, for a long time, as much as this Parliament's convocation has been considering budgets through procedures, we know that some by definition are always against, and some are by definition always for, so sometimes, although we have a little more adventurous travel of the spirit (?), but here I want to draw attention to the need for perhaps the seriousness of the budgetary relationship in this situation, in this year, just given the circumstances in which the BiH economy is located, both BiH and entities and budgets at all levels, etc. And the need to do it this time in one maybe a little unusual way. Of course no one has reason to be pleased. All of us, in some ways, would be making some adjustments, or perhaps switching, or increasing some items. For any such move, one can find itself in this violent economic and social situation in BiH a thousand and one argument, but regardless, I would still call for a different relationship with this issue. And, perhaps unusually, I would suggest that regardless of perhaps someone's need to make some adjustments, we are also considering today's second-reading budget. In that sense, I will officially submit this proposal. I'm asking all the clubs to think about that proposal. I know that there are, as you all know, and it is very easy that there will be opportunities and needs in the coming year for the rebalances of our budgets, perhaps this budget of state institutions in line with the changed circumstances. I am also also aware, indeed, of the observations made here with arguments on the unrealistic planning of certain state institutions when it comes to financial needs, or because of the failure to comply with those planned commitments covered by the budget requirements. And we have what we have here, in terms of the budget execution report last year, or, in this year, to remind you, we have a six-month report. A nine-month report would probably show a different state. But that's the problem we've been dealing with for years. I also know very well what conclusions we adopted during the 2009 budget debate, which Mr Izetbegović was talking about. Among other things, that was the reason for such an outcome, let's say, in the first iteration(?) budgets. However, regardless of our dissatisfaction when it comes to the specific item and treatment of items relating to the return of refugees and displaced persons, as well as other items, I appreciate that it would be good for us to adopt today's second reading budget. I think 24 of our winnings from such a move would be much bigger than any minor denials, than some minor corrections. And, in that sense, I would ask the finance minister, when he speaks to this Parliament, I suppose he'll take the floor, to say if it's really possible, or if there are fewer adjustments later, I don't mean budgets but possibly meeting some requirements, which might also help clubs commit themselves to a proposal for a second reading in today's procedure. I ask you nicely that we really all have enough understanding for the specific weight of the moment we are in, and you are aware that the entity parliaments, i.e., the Assembly of the RS and the Federal Parliament, are in the course of discussions and rebalancing, that is, the budget for this and next year, and I cannot imagine the alternative, depending on the ruling, opposition, etc. BiH position (?I am speaking from the position of the citizens of BiH and the functioning of all its institutions, I cannot imagine an alternative that we do not have what we have, among other things, regarding the procedure for adopting the budget. So I ask you nicely that even after considering the budget in the first reading, let us take a good look inside the clubs at whether there are any adjustments, in order for us to act in amendment in the second phase, such specific weights that we do not do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31429	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31430	Thank you. I simply think that Article 106, point 4, which is called upon by the honourable Member when it proposes this conclusion, is not possible to respect, because it is simply a very complicated law, not simply as it stands in the Rules of Procedure and, of course, this House can draw any conclusion, but at the same time it is not logical that the party for one draft budget asks to go to another reading, the same party, in fact, in the amendment phase, and then comes to another session with a proposal not to go into the amendment phase at all. There is no continuity and principle in the proposal in the same party. At the same time, when you spoke of seriousness, I think this parliament is showing extraordinary seriousness and some others have failed in this regard. But I want to speak here on behalf of Parliament, not on behalf of my party, of responsibility. The responsibility that if, continuously, this parliament draws conclusions that are required by the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to respect the fact that every year we spend resources to issue space ineffectively, ineffectively, and not respected, the parliament has the right to state its position on this and try to fix that budget. If this parliament thinks that the item concerning the mandatory reserve serving the BiH Council of Ministers is too large and should be reduced to the expense of others, or to the benefit of others, then this parliament should say so. Now, that is the responsibility of this Parliament and your proposal is that this Parliament is not responsible for anything, that this Parliament be a flow water heater and that it does not discuss the budget, although it has the right to do so, both legally and normally, the right to accept the BiH Presidency, 5% as all other parliaments in the environment, in 5% to discuss certain items. 25 With your proposal, you define the position of MPs in this House to have the right to discuss the correction of those 5% that you think or think we should do together. At the same time, there is no concern that a budget will not be adopted if the parliamentary majority in the commission believes that if we can, these parliamentarians, agree on certain issues, we will correct it, not taking the budget framework and not transferring the budget framework. There's nothing to worry about. The budget will be in line with what the BiH Council of Ministers proposed, adopted the BiH presidency, and the BiH Parliament fixed it as it thinks it should be fixed. Thank you. First Vice-President, honourable MP, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31431	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, distinguished guests. Today, after 7 days, we are again discussing one of the most important acts that, otherwise, parliaments are bringing to the world, and we are discussing the budget for the next year, and in an unusually short period, we are twice discussing that budget in the first reading in 7 days. This is the most associated with bad students who repeat class over a short period of time until they master material, and we should probably also make more frequent appointments for the first reading of certain acts, in order to better master them. The budget, unfortunately, in this country, as well as many others, is not what it is like in many orderly countries. And I have to say, with all due respect, it's nice to listen to the invocation of how it works somewhere else, and how we, like, should do that here, if we were to respect those principles, those principles everywhere. But we can't do a little bit of this, a little bit of that, from case to case, as we wish. This parliament, these BiH authorities, unfortunately, made a whole series of bad decisions in the past, or, to be clear, did not make much of the decisions they needed to make. In this series of bad decisions, one of the worst decisions is to bring down the draft budget of the BiH institutions in the first reading, which we had seven days ago, not giving ourselves the opportunity to use the parliamentary mandate in that second reading, the parliamentary legitimacy and to act amendment to everything the BiH Council of Ministers has prepared, which the BiH Presidency has proposed to us, as Parliament of BiH. We, ourselves, wanted to admit it or not, took away that legitimacy and that right, what would have happened if the BiH Presidency hadn't delivered this proposal? After 7 days, it is not realistic, because we are talking about the seriousness of the act, the complexity of the material, and we are talking about the fact that only 7 days ago he was rejected in Parliament, the Presidency, by all logic and arguments, in the next 3-4 months he could not come up with another proposal and we would not have anything to discuss today. But it's the state of this country, the way it is, and I really thank them on this occasion for after 3-4 days, however, trying to save the situation, so they sent us this proposal. We can talk about how important he is, and I agree that this should be one of the most important acts this Parliament adopts and, if I remember correctly, according to the Rules of Procedure, we should have him much earlier, and that is the Rules of Procedure, have and adopt, in order to provide him with a timely second home to this Parliamentary Assembly, which also has a mandate to decide 26 on him and so that he can contribute to this most important act. However, the situation is what it is, and it has long since been in reality what it is. During the debate in the first reading of the principles we had about I will tell you about this document, it is not the same as it was last time, several remarks of principled nature could be noticed. One remark was that this draft budget here, in this parliament, came by revote in the BiH presidency and I must say that this argument, I am seriously experiencing and I think that no decision taken in this country by revote is ever good and has ever made any good. And, behold, I fully respect the arguments of colleagues who have made comments in this way on decision-making. The second fundamental remark we could hear is that this draft budget is outside the framework established by the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council, which was founded on the basis of the law adopted by this Parliament. And I have to say that all legalists had to agree to one such remark, that is, agree that this should be removed. To be honest, I have not heard other arguments or reasoned reasons why this and such proposal should be rejected. I have not heard any indication of what could possibly be in that second reading subject to any amendment or consent. Today, I have heard far less of any objections to this proposal that we have today. There have been a lot more stories today about some issues, issues that have nothing to do with what we're discussing today, but it's not the first time. We have one draft budget that we've all come to together, all the institutions of government in this country, in the way we've come, I've tried one way to present it now, this chronology. To call on the minister, no matter who he was, that he now explains something, something here will enlighten us, what we don't know, what man already wrote, what we all know, we know what this is about, and we will either support this document or we won't support it. There's no between here and here. And for support or support, surely there will be no reason for any of those numerical items in the budget, no matter how hard we are now trying to convince each other that something out there is problematic about numbers. If we get into that phase, I'm sure, I won't say I'm not sure we won't get the budget by the end of the year, but I'm sure we won't get it. So, if we get into the amendment phase. I'm just going to say a few examples where, if I were to think about what I'd like to see in this budget, I'd act as an amendment. I personally belong to the category of those who think it is not in principle good to separate from the single account for BiH institutions, as a percentage, from year to year. So I'm talking about principles. It is not good to do so because we are bringing into a completely unequal position of the BiH institution, although by law they are put first, we, through a continuous reduction every year of the single state account, are putting them in an unequal position. And I would suggest that we put it back into some more normal frames, even if those percentages we found at the beginning of this term, were to be separated from the single account. The second question, believing that there is an opportunity to act in this sense, is an absolutely insufficient item or an insufficient number for, here, I will be more precise, to open up the space of many 27 to think alike, to finance displaced persons and refugees. 35 million, we know that, isn't enough. We, too, are aware of that, have also reached that conclusion that we have obliged the BiH Council of Ministers to secure a loan of 400-500 million marks. However, after we reached that conclusion, we did everything to make it impossible for the BiH Council of Ministers to implement it, because we know it. I hope we all know it's not possible to realize a nice story, the one we sell to refugees and exiled. So that's not what these international financial organizations drink. They want the program. We had this program here, a revised strategy, and we didn't accept it. And we forced the tools out of the hands of those people we gave to as if they were now raising loans. It's like you ordered your child to take out a mortgage, no property, and you told him, well, you don't want my mortgage property, but let me borrow it. And we know he can't. So, we know it's not a real story about the loan because we didn't give the instruments needed by the BiH Council of Ministers to make that and such credit possible. And because of that, if we reach the amendment phase, I would suggest that the amount from the BiH institutions budget be increased by at least one 3-4 times. So it's not enough yet, but as one honest message that we're seriously thinking about it. It was discussed that the budget was wasteful, inefficient, flow boiler, etc., perhaps this budget is least wasteful and least inefficient. But we don't have instruments or at least we don't have a lot of instruments, if we have them at all, to influence the entity's budgets. And we can, part of the social component, please, honor, try to respect it through the separation for displaced persons and refugees, which is social separation, and those(?) In particular, we can through the adoption of a timely budget to enable entities to withdraw part of the funds and stabilise their budgets, so that they can act socially because it is the most important part of their social contributions. We can also disable it by failing to adopt the budget. That's why I said in the beginning, we can accept or not accept the budget. Whether this question is complex or simple depends on what kind of question we do. And I have to say that it's completely irrelevant who suggested it first, and I'm also on our short-term college, and I also suggested that today we consider this document in both the first and second readings for several reasons, without the intention of convincing anyone that this is too simple or too urgent, it doesn't matter now which argument we're going to give greater importance to. We are in a position that, if we want a budget, we take what we have, which is the result, however, of many compromises and many agreements that have lasted for this document. We can question everything again by introducing us all together into an adventure of amendment action, with suspense whether we're going to do that 30 or 30, for the next seven days be more ready for compromises, ready for respect, ready for conversation, bargaining than we've been all these days, months and years. I'm not sure that anything dramatic is going to change in the next seven days, and that's why I'm an absolute supporter, and I'm joining, or I'm still suggesting that the budget that we have today be adopted in the first, and after that, no amendments, in the second reading, because I think it's the only chance we have by the end of the year, the only chance we have to allow the entities to stay in the stand-by arrangement and try to save what can be saved in both the social and developmental and all the other elements that are in the entity budgets. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31432	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31433	I thank you, Chairman. When it comes to these conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission,.. to say that these conclusions should be supported, however, if this phase, of the amendment phase, then these means in which they propose a reduction of 10% on the terms of representation, fuel and oil costs, the purchase of new vehicles, etc., use of vehicle replacements, the purchase of additional equipment, therefore, those funds, should be reduced to those items to be rerouted to the Return Fund. Here are the representatives, here are the minister and his assistant, and there should be still an increase in funds on behalf of the Return Fund. In addition, in addition to this, if there is an amendment phase, some items could have been reduced, some positions reduced, and all those funds were directed to return. They're for example. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. So all these resources could be rerouted to the Return Fund. In addition, this issue of leases really should be resolved in one of the most serious ways, this separation of large funds for leases, indeed it is unauthorized to do so in the future. In addition, I support the conclusion that the honourable MP, MP Martin Raguž, really needs this question, if we are to address this issue of return through loans, that these things are accelerated, that in one more effective way they are resolved, and in order to improve the status of returnees and displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31434	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31435	Well, it would be good, above all, that when it comes to this budget, this budget respects certain principles of the responsible availability of taxpayers' funds. It would be good if 14 years after Dejton we had both a social and a prominent development component in this budget, to respect the principle of rationalization and savings. Today, however, as well as the previous days, very little has been said about some essential issues. Very little has been said here, which is the structure of the budget and which is the BiH budget that would lead this country into the EU. What is the budget and what is the structure of the budget that would speed BiH's path towards NATO's pact. Instead, we often have, unfortunately, some barren debates that do not bring any effect. The SDP MPs' positions are clear and consistent. We, above all, believe that pay, travel costs and other public expenditure should be reduced and the development and social component should be increased. We are also, in principle, against a reduction in the amount of the state budget, and 29 increases in entity budgets. After all, it is not a trend anywhere, nor in Europe, so I don't know why we should constantly try to reduce the state budget in BiH. It is not good, not to mention a number of examples that this budget does not provide for any conversion marks for one of the most important development projects, which is Corridor Vc. However, in order not to further complicate the situation today, the Social Democratic Party Club and SDP MPs will table concrete amendments to this draft budget, and this text will today, in the first reading of the SDP Members' Club, however, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31436	Replica, Honorary Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31437	Of course we'll keep repeating things until they're cleared and we're consistent with what we're saying and doing. The last three budgets came by revoted members of the BiH presidency, three last budgets were revised in a way that was done in a commission phase as it was only one and we were no longer convinced this time that, as some in the commission phase, we could do anything, but the same as the previous three budgets. Therefore, calling on a commission phase is not what we felt we had to do three times a fourth time. I do not think that we, as parliament, have put BiH at risk by returning the budget to the BiH presidency, but, I think, on the contrary, that we have seriously appointed the whole process and responsibility in this process for what has not been done properly, and it has not been done properly because the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution have been violated when this budget is due here in this room. No recommendation of the Fiscal Council on the budgetary framework has been respected and Article 4 and 5 respectively has been violated. Fiscal advice. Were we ready to do it three times and, look, we've done it three times, let the presidency behave that way, and we should do it the fourth time. Where there is the responsibility of the BiH Parliament, which is last and definitive, to allow everything in this process to violate both regulations and laws, and we are not looking at it on the side. When we talk about the principles of this budget and reducing the handling of the single account of the Direct Taxation Authority, we will not say that in this year less funds were found on this account and that we should act as slave owners, in which BiH should deal with that account which, I remind you, is full of entities and does not take into account that there are fewer funds in this year and without looking at us taking as much as we need. What a conscious business it is and what an asset it is in terms of what a social economic situation is on the ground and what a social economic situation is in entities. We said it was important for us and that it was our priority to single out for refugees and displaced faces, but we never talked about how we should single it out. It was constantly taken from the joint account of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and thus re-taken from the money entity. It was not proposed that the money that this country receives from its original income, such as the Central Bank's income, that we, as people who work in joint institutions, say, we will use these 30 for refugees and displaced persons, not the money that we will retake from the entity and spend in the way that suits us here. It was a key assumption, to talk about it and to make our contribution to this topic, not to the entity's account, and to their accounts and budgets. So we saw that this year we have 40 million less income from the Central Bank. How can we not respect the fact that there is no money in BiH enough for everyone, both entities and the municipalities and the state of BiH, but we keep talking about that someone is against the state, that every year someone takes less money from the Directorate for indirect taxation and that every year the budget of the joint institutions or BiH is smaller and the entity is bigger. It's just not like that. And that is why I believe that, as MPs, at some stage, we have to fix these things and we have to make our contribution and seriously address the whole situation called the budget, even once in BiH's practice so far. Thank you. First Vice-President, Mr. Niko Lozančić, correction of the false allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31438	Thank you. I'm going to take a quick look at only one remark, one president's finding turns around, and I'm putting this second one into different political considerations. It's not true that entities are filling a single account. A single account filled with taxpayers of this state, and entities only empty it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31439	Thank you. The second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31440	As much as a man wants to avoid some things, we have tried, I say, and to the College, and to one and the other, agree, but when the discussion starts, then you really get into a situation that you have to simply react. So, when it comes to the definition of the country's original income. Article 8. The Constitution clearly states that this way, too, the system of indirect taxation is the original income of the state, because it is in accordance with Article 8. The constitution, the state governed by law. And he gets the country's source income category. Of course, I really thought that we all knew that and that we understand that it is the state that practically needs to settle its needs first. Of course, that's what we're talking about. And perhaps we didn't understand each other very well, so the president of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH has made our position clear. And when he suggested that we consider this document in the second reading, we fully understand that it comes to such a situation when it comes to 31 simple documents, and that is correct, it says in the Rules of Procedure. However, we have arguments, this document has been with us for a month. The changes are of such nature that they are really simple and understandable and they are on half the page, first page, explanations and explanation, and these were motives, using, of course, the business opportunity for the House to decide on it. Why did we initiate this? Azra, when she explained it, cited the reasons why she referred to us. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31441	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bajazit Jašarević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31442	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It makes sense and the Rules of Procedure allow us to decide in two votes when the document we adopt is simple, so it is possible to do so. Another way to do that is when there's a high level of political consent to do it. And we had a chance when we adopted some famous four laws there without reading here. We have to say today, let's not get carried away, we haven't made progress in political consent. And I think it would be good if now that we've made a move, we don't wander any further. So there is a will, but there is not enough level of political consent. And I suggest, I mean, it has to be voted, now it's a business provision, but I suggest we don't get carried away that we have a budget today if we decide for the sake of good faith to vote in two steps. So there is not enough level of political consent and then it needs to be realistic, and there is a procedure by which we can still get it by the new year. And I mean, I had a need to say that, because we're all under pressure, so it's good to admit that reality and support it today without any problems in the first reading, to respect in a brief amendment procedure what is obviously the support of everyone, and to leave everything else behind for some other time. Anything beyond this, however, can only be beautiful and noble desires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31443	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31444	Here, I'll do it very briefly. Of course, I don't want to spoil this idyll within the College on this issue, but I must comment on the proposal of distinguished counterpart Hadžiahmetović. It's not the first time we've adopted complex laws here and combined two readings like this. We've had so far complex laws that we've adopted like this. And there's a colleague named Bajazit right. There was then a high degree of political consent. In fact, there were 22 MPs for it then, if it can be called a high degree of political consent, especially when it comes to those police laws. 32 But the first time would be to adopt the budget in this way. So I also said at the Expansive College, it would suit me the most, as an opposition MP, if these two readings were put together, and that would be so very good for the media, especially those who are not prone to this parliamentary majority and would really be given a good story. But I don't think it's really wise or meaningful, and whatever you want, you can adopt the budget without being able to change it. So I will not support this proposal by colleague Hadžiahmetović, with full respect, of course, some of these reasons. I think that all of these reasons can be overcome by a new year, that is, if the parliamentary majority wants to adopt the budget, then it can go beyond New Year's Eve. Of course, now we can ask why we came to the teatung. Who's responsible for today's session? How is it possible that the BiH Presidency and the Fiscal Council do not have coordination or lack sufficient communication? How is it possible and much more connected to this budget? But it may be another topic for another occasion in general about the relations of institutions within BiH and the consequences of these relations. I guess the BiH presidency, as the country's most responsible body and the country's most responsible institution, among other things, and on budget issues, still under the constitution, had communication with the Fiscal Council. I guess the message that one member of the BiH presidency did not vote on this was enough message not to go with the draft budget. And are we going to charge these expenses to the BiH presidency today? Or are we going to be responsible for coming here today, and then we're going to make expenses? I think things need to get serious here, and that's also one of the reasons why I don't think that we should discuss both budgets today, or both of them reading budgets, no matter what, I repeat, for the reasons that the colleague here has made. As far as the budget is concerned, I've just looked here a little bit, obviously my replica didn't carve anyone up so the minister didn't come out to talk afterwards, the chairman didn't even invite him to explain it, etc. Then I made a little effort here to, at least what I had an objection to, see if anything happened and I have to say it didn't happen, and even she's talking about very small money, and at the conclusion of this home, and it was those resources for the workers who had lost their jobs, in fact, to run litigation for those workers who had lost their jobs in Croatia since '91-95. For years, even though I explained then that these funds have been provided by the organizations of Spain and the United States so far and that they have not been doing so since 2008 and that it would be good to help these people. Here, unfortunately, even such a small figure did not come across the good will, of course, I am putting this good will under the supposed signs of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it seems to me that now, rather than the BiH Presidency, it was in the first place when it came to this Budget Proposal. And this is what I'm ending up with, so it would be good if my colleague Azra withdrew her proposal which clearly means... but it's already seen from these discussions that there's no critical majority so we don't say anything about this, because I don't think this proposal is wise in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31445	Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31446	Thank you. I will talk about my colleague Novaković's discussion and his statement that he will not support this proposal and the proposal I made in terms of the House's statement on a possible second reading today, but I also understood that he would not support the draft budget either, right? And no matter what the budget, we all know here that Mr. Momčilo Novaković will not support the budget, nor principles, nor other reading, because it is a position that enables him to take that position. However, I want to go back to what was said, which is that it is not wise to go without amendments. I couldn't agree more. I'm just saying that we all wonder if our possible corrections that we're going to make in the amendment phase are such specific weights that we're doing it in the next period, given, of course, and the benefits and damages of commitment both for each other. I appreciate that we'd better do it today. We would also have observations and we could open many big topics and stories related to the functioning of state institutions, to the grant funds, to the position of respecting the conclusions made by this Parliament, etc., but we are equally aware of the time in which this state is located, and all the budgets, and the general budget, the budget of the general government, etc., and in that sense my proposal went. And secondly, Mr. Novaković is correcting the wrong quote. This would not be the first time that even a complex law, even in this Rules of Procedure, under Rule 106, paragraph 4, this Parliament is considering, or considering, both readings. Even when it comes to the budget, it wouldn't be the first time, because even in the previous assembly of parliament, even though it was a different Rules of Procedure, we had a case like that. So that's a good story for the media, if you need an argument of that kind, we'll find it. However, regardless, just for your arguments, respecting all the arguments made here, I particularly refer to Mr. Živković's arguments, I ask you to seriously consider the proposal that we are considering this budget today in another reading. After all, the second home of this parliament will consider it in both readings.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31447	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Velimir Jukić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31448	Mr. Chairman, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, colleagues and colleagues. I will be very brief, indeed, because at our last session, as well as most of my colleagues, in a debate that lasted about 2.5 hours, and I was talking about the BiH institution's 2010 Budget Proposal and I don't think I'm going to repeat it now. Now I would like to say a few arguments and the reasons for our decision to decide today that this document, i.e., we should discuss this law in another reading in order to, however, leave at least a little space to the House of People to get our proposal, and so by the Constitution, the proposal of this law, and that at least it can be given two days or three days before its session, which is scheduled, as we know, in 30 this month. 34 This document has been since 5.11., when it was adopted by the Council of Ministers, we actually know it. It is 95 or more 99% of what was found at a meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers a month and a half ago. So, we've known this document for a month and a half and all of us here, and some others who aren't here, and they were interested, we could well study this document and all... about this tell your courts, your views of dissatisfaction or praise, etc. So it's about time. Now, is it possible to change something more significant, are we going to deny the right of MPs who are going to act as amendment if we decide today to do both readings? I don't think that, for the simple reason that everyone here has had the opportunity, they still have, of course, the debate going on, tell their opinion and their courts about the budget as a whole, about all its parts, the items, the objectives, whether it is possible to realise what is drawn in our programming documents, whether funds are being provided for the realization of these objectives through this budget. But I also think that if we look at it, I'm going to say realistically from my perspective now, the question is, is there anything more significant that can be changed? Here's why. The framework has been established by the Fiscal Council, the BiH presidency has corrected it once, and has returned from here to return to these frameworks, etc. The Commission has said its position, which has once again respected one, therefore, to be within what has been established by the Fiscal Council, and to be respected in part, or fully, and what the BiH presidency, as the executive body in this country, has established in its Budget Proposal. The BiH Council of Ministers again sat down and, in accordance with the conclusion reached by this parliament a week ago, respected both demands. So, within which the Fiscal Council established, the proposal and the position and demand of the BiH presidency were respected. The way it's done, we see it here. Yesterday, at a session of the Commission, there was little speech here, none of the members of the Commission found an objection the way the BiH Council of Ministers did. So no one thought it was possible to do it differently and not have to do it that way. That's what you should say here. That's true. That's a fact. Now, the question arises here, is it possible to do everything that is drawn out, what is done and supported this year through the BiH institutions budget, with this, in some way, and yet tense budgets. Where it is reduced, it is known which item, by 17.6%, which is a significant reduction if we keep in mind the fact that the requirements of the budget users were approximately greater on these items by about 30%, minus this 17.5%, is approximately that(?) funds for these purposes are almost halved. And I think there really is very little space left in this frame to make more significant redistributions to any items. And that's why I really don't think we have much space. These conclusions, I will only comment briefly on them, from yesterday's session of the Commission, I think they are correct and should be implemented in this way. Again, one flexible approach was in mind, estimating the fact that time is very little and that there may be two outcomes today. So, one is to go and open the amendment phase, and the other, which I also advocated by the HDZ Club, to go into both readings today and again, through the text of these conclusions, that they are implemented in a different way, but still implemented. And here also the other two conclusions that speak about the commitment of the BiH Council of Ministers to inform this home, I expect the same from the House of Nations, as well as how the issues related to the settlement of accommodations are addressed, that these costs are reduced, that a 35 programme of insurance of space is done in order to access the acquisition, acquisition, purchase of these areas, settlement, and that these costs are reduced which are really too high. I think that's very correct. And on the other hand, also, concerning refugees and exiles, it is required to keep this home informed three months about the realization of this project, because it was in this year, which, at the outset, a lot of remarks that these funds were reserved, that they were not used, etc., which is only one part true. However, realisation is going on, but the funds are being spent in accordance with the procedures that we have established through the Law, above all, on public procurement and other laws concerning and issues that are being addressed at local level. Therefore, the funds are being implemented, the question is whether faster dynamics are possible. And, here, to conclude, that I am not taking up time for everyone, I have not said anything new except undermining, here again, request and explained part, if I have succeeded, that today we are going into both readings because we have nothing to expect, we can only open the amendment phase to bring greater risk of achieving the goal, which is that in this year we have, with 30.12., adopted the Budget of the BiH institutions in our House in both readings and in the House of Peoples in both readings. We also take care that our colleagues in the House of Peoples need them, so they have no chance of a quality commission phase, and they do not particularly have an amendment phase. I think we'll do well what we can, decide today, declare that we're going in both readings, I said for what reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31449	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. The 12:30 vote. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, please take your seats. We vote, please. Can this club function without Slavko? My fellow Members and fellow Members, we are voting on the draft law in the first reading, with the opinion of our Finance and Budget Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 30, against 2 abstentions 2, a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the draft budget law with the Commission's opinion on finance and budget. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Ambassador Martin Raguž. Your Honour, here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31451	I thank the president, technically it was a mistake, an apology to everyone, not 400,000, but 400 million, this record applies...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31452	Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 28, against three, abstention two, an insufficient entity majority. This conclusion will be agreed upon. Please, we are now moving to a vote on the proposal of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović, the proposal is that the Budget Law is being considered today in a second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 17 against 16, abstention 1, insufficient entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 17, against 16, abstention 1, against an insufficient 2/3 of RS, the SDS saved the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31453	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31454	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31455	We'll repeat the vote, before that, five minutes' break.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-23-0.u31456	Thank you. 37 [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, let us try to bring this vote to an end. At the SNSD Club's proposal, the second round votes on Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal to move on to a second reading right now. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 17, against 16, abstention 1, against RS is 2/3. I realize we haven't adopted this conclusion. My colleagues and colleagues, I note that the 68th House session is scheduled for 30.12. This is the way I want to congratulate Christmas holidays on all those who celebrate. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm closing the 67th session of the House. Session completed at 1:17 p.m.
