ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3347	We'll stop with the colloquis, let's go take our seats, Jović. We'll start working in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, with an excuse for being a little late, I welcome all distinguished colleagues, all present in the hall, representatives of the executive government, mostly from the Council of Ministers, from international organisations and I am opening the 24th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For today's session, I propose the next agenda 1. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 23rd session of the House of Nations; 3. The request of the College of the People's House to consider the draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for the year 2009, delivered by the House of Representatives by a hasty procedure; 4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement by a hasty procedure; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act by a hasty procedure; 6. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples; 7. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals (second reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (second reading) – Proposer of the Joint Security and Intelligence Committee for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH (second reading) – Proposer of Joint 2 Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the Work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency; 10. Proposal for a Law on Aviation of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the provision of air navigation services (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act (first reading) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 13. An indication of the Bill's proposal on juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal protection of children and minors (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of BiH (first reading) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Report on the 2007 Review of the Report on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions Budget and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 17. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina in foreign peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008; 18. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 19. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board (Rang-list of BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications); 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Cultural Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China; 22. Granting consent to ratify the European Treaty on the Main Inland Waterways of international importance (AGN); 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary in connection with the succession of bilateral international contracts concluded between the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Note of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the revision of the succession of bilateral agreements concluded between the former SFRY and the Kingdom of Norway; 25. Giving consent to ratifying Acts with XXIII. World Postal Federation Congress, Bucharest 2004; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the grant of the Global Environment Fund between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as the Agency for the implementation of the Global Environment Fund, the Neretva and Trebišnica Management Project; 3 28. Giving consent to ratifying the 1992 European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage (Revised); 29. Giving consent to ratifying the Convention on the Protection of Undersea Cultural Heritage, Paris, November 2, 2001; 30. Granting consent to ratify the International Convention against Doping in Sports, Paris on 19 October 2005; 31. Giving consent to ratify the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the value of cultural heritage for society, Paris, 27 October 2005. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. I'm asking, does anyone have a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3349	I would ask the House of People to consider the possibility of introducing another point as a point of the agenda, and it would read: 'Forsting the Commission of Investigation to the House of Nations to determine the criteria of procedures and how to distribute CEMT permits for 2009 to domestic carriers'. The reason for this is that, in recent times, there has been a huge dissatisfaction with domestic carriers in granting the latest CEMT permit (the 2009 permit), that many of them suspect that there is an irregularity in the award of CEMT permits and that the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly in that part is to bring the very position so that we do not have any reasonable judgment on whether or not it is. But, therefore, 100 transport organisations signed a request to examine the regularity of this procedure. I propose to the House of People that we form our committee and if it turns out that... The CEMT licences issued for 2009 were not made in accordance with the regulatory procedure and the regulation governing the issue of CEMT licences, then this would mean, after the completion of the Commission's work and the proof of certain elements which say that the procedure is not respected, then I would ask for a decision to form a joint commission of both homes, which would consider the last four years of all the licences issued. So, on the condition that the commission does this job and finds the results that there were deviations from the award rules. I think this would be a good way for the Parliamentary Assembly to show responsibility for the people involved in issuing certain permits to make some insight into their work and I think that I would expect that no one who is in favour of the rule of law in this House - that no one will be against that decision. So, I'd ask the clubs to look into it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3350	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So I see here on the monitor one replica, Mr. Bože Rajić, so we'll give the replica a priority over the already reported two discussions. Whether it's a discussion, now we're talking about a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, everyone who participates in the work of this session. Today, my replica to Mrs. Majkić's proposal to include an additional point in the sense of conclusion, as she explained, concerns that I have no objection to running any issue on the agenda, including this as it is said today, but if an argument is offered first. We have here a proposal to draw a conclusion, where there is not a single letter except that there is a dissatisfaction of the public who, quite frankly, I have not noticed, I do not know in which public these dissatisfactions can be manifested, and it seems to me that this is a forced solution. If there are already objections and if some MPs think it should be examined, then in my opinion, it would be much more natural for us to first ask the competent ministry to report to the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, this House in which way it has conducted the procedure, so, if it is not enough for us, then we are doing research, and this is not how we go straight into some police investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3352	Thank you very much. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3353	I would, the chairman, just a brief intervention at point 21. It is a cultural co-operation agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the People's Republic of China – this is my Serbian version of the agenda. Well, the word of the People's Party is missing, because in the memo of the Presidency stands the Government of the People's Republic of China and it's not the same, so just to fix it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3354	I'm sorry, is that a mistake in the agenda or in the act?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3355	Error on the agenda. In the act of the Presidency – Government of the People's Republic of China.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3356	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudo Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3357	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I welcome my colleagues and fellow MPs and all present. 5 I did not sign up for the replica, but for the discussion of the enlargement of the agenda, concerning the request of the distinguished colleague Majkić. So we know that there is a business possibility in Article 29. (founding investigative committees), but also we MPs, when we set ourselves up against such demands, should have a clear argument, and no media speculation that we have these days had the opportunity to read in the newspaper when it comes to the dissatisfaction of some users, so here's the CEMT license. Question: A hundred carriers signed the request because they were dissatisfied with the distribution of the CEMT permit, which the Ministry of Communication and Transport did under the CEMT authorisation Regulation, probably agreed within the Ministry and made on the basis of some criteria, governing the criteria for that allocation. So, what I am at this point of rebellion is actually 100 requests from the carrier about dissatisfaction – to whom it is addressed, whether expressed in the media and, if it is directed towards the Ministry, was it not logical to wait for the Ministry to consider such requests before the House of Peoples that protects the interests of the people, so all three peoples in BiH, formed a potentially investigative commission to conduct an investigation into some decisions in one of the ministries? So here's my colleague Rajić, so he said the whole point. Indeed, I think this is unnecessary before clear arguments and possible requests of justifiable dissatisfaction are directed towards the House of Peoples, and then perhaps in that sense some conclusion in terms of seeking further clarifications from the present ministry. So, of course I can't support the expansion of the agenda with this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3358	Thank you very much. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3359	Normally, I am not opposed to forming these investigative committees wherever we see justifiable reasons for doubting that some commissions have done contrary to the law, regulations and other acts. And this year, as in earlier years, we've always had these complaints that these permits were granted illegally. Some people talked to me about it, too. However, it seems to me now that it would be premature to immediately form this investigative commission and this proposal by Mr. Božo Rajić that I should first look for a report seems more logical, that we have a report, that we simply see what the procedure is, you know, whether on these decisions the commission or, I don't know, this ministry, who's already making it, is having the right to appeal. Maybe we should use those legal means, then we should form that commission. But we'll know best if we get that report. But not just the report, because the Ministry will probably make one of those haired reports that will defend that position, and let's see these objections that are being made. Because I'm afraid of a dangerous precedent, if we do now, there are a lot of Council of Ministers committees working on, which there are objections; if we were to form these investigative committees now,...where we would stop. So I think that here, in any case, we should request a report, but with report 6 that we also have these objections brought to the work of this ministry or commission, I don't know who's doing this, who's making the formal decisions. And that we have, after all, the answer to whether there's an appeal procedure here. I think it's premature now to form this committee immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3360	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3361	So so many times on the subject so far there's been a story that one should put an end to it. If the minister were from my party, I'd ask for it even with twice as much force, because I think we should all account for what they're doing. So, delegates who come from the party, headed by the minister, should be particularly interested that the stain that stands on this ministry because of these permits, and before that – Parliament has never taken this seriously. Because asking whoever's to be investigated or, in the end, it's not the first investigation committee. We now have a commission that completes the work on foreign savings, it is also an investigative commission. A new examination committee has been formed to complete the grant for BiH. So, regular commissions are formed. The House of Representatives set up a committee of inquiry the other day. What's the commission's mission? So, just to make sure the procedure was correct. Who can object to something to check the procedure under which the 2009 ministry issued the permits. I don't see why anything would be problematic. For a relatively short period of time, the Commission may review all the documentation and be sure of that. I'm really asking for an understanding of this subject. prv, please colleagues from HDZ 1990, nothing is referred to the minister. So the minister doesn't do the job, but they do the people who are in charge of it. And otherwise, I think that Parliament's responsibility to the executive authority, especially to institutions dealing with the issue of certain permits, for which it is in public fam... to take huge money for it. That story should end. Why, for five years now, would the ministry be okay with these CEMT permits being bought? So, I can't believe anyone in this House can be against questioning whether the Rules of Procedure, which was passed in 2000, was respected when the permits for 2000 were passed. I really can't believe anyone could be against it. So, what will Parliament do? To check the procedure and say, "Božiji's people, let's end this story, it's right or wrong." Why would anyone object to that? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3362	Thank you very much. So let's not open a discussion about content. I'm asking you nicely, we're only discussing whether or not we're going to put this issue on the agenda. The replica was answered by Mr. Vidović. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3363	In fact, I have a need for a replica of my esteemed colleague, Majkić, when we talk about a minister from which party. There was no speech here at all, nor could it be read that I was defending the minister from our party. Finally, the ministry is run by a deputy minister from another party. Rather, we are talking about arguments and reasons why it should be possible to examine the correctness or invalidity of issuing those licences. I absolutely do not object to it being examined, but it seems to me, as Mr Tihić said, at this point would make a rash move before we have really complete arguments about any irregularities and possible possibility of appeal, which are directed towards the ministry. And the commission within this ministry that worked according to the Allocation Regulation? I don't know why we're defending the minister now. There was no speech at all about the minister, but about the ministry and the procedure itself, any errors in granting CEMT permits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers and other present representatives of international institutions and media representatives, I would really not repeat what we heard from Mrs. Majkić. I think this initiative has its full justification. We really should understand those problems which are the latest procedures for issuing these CEMT permits and which were created in the RS. I think these remarks, which Mrs. Majkić pointed out, are really in place, and I would ask you to find a little understanding. First of all, this is about time. We know the way the CEMT licenses are shared. The procedure is in the Ministry far away. I would also ask the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, in fact, who are present, to help us with all this talk. But really, I think, and colleagues who decide on this initiative, to find a little understanding that we finally put a point, as Mrs. Majkić said, on this issue, because we really have a CEMT license problem every year, one question that is repeated year after year. I don't see a single reason, someone said a little bit, let's see the appeal procedures, etc., but, which is why we're limited that for both this and the previous years once and for all, we simply see in what way, by which criteria, are these regulations regarding this area respected, to finally put an end to this question. So again I ask you to accept this initiative, because I think it is fully justified, and the public simply won't forgive us if we make such mistakes knowingly, if we ignore these initiatives. Who else is going to decide about such things, any irregularities, if we don't do it at home sessions. And once again, I repeat, and eight, I ask that we seriously consider this issue. And I suggest that the members of the Department of Traffic, here they are, and we have the assistant ministers, to give their position in this initiative as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3366	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. So, let me just warn the MPs. Whenever someone logs in, an earlier name is deleted immediately. So this program that receives our applications, by reporting the next one, or by including the microphone next, so he erases one of the names. So, it's been erased by Mr. Branko Zrno, but I can't erase him. I give him my word, then Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go, Branko.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3367	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, here we are, clearly now shown, in a stalemate position. I mean, about whether or not we vote for an existing initiative. But as it's clear to me here, none of the present are against... No one's against her, I'm not personally. [[removed from the microphone and not understood]] I am inclined to support Mrs. Majkić's proposal but there is logic in this as well as in what colleagues say. This is about procedures. I'm just asking if there's enough time until the next session of this home to be found, not ma'am to give up, but to find the form by which we'll get the information we can be satisfied with and solve this problem, from which we can be... and go into the phase of forming a commission. So that period isn't great. Strengthen the request, rename, seek complete information until the next meeting of the House of Peoples. The time is 15 days. Shall we hold the session in 15 days? We won't be safe, but give a 15-day deadline and get, look for complete information with what you've listed in your information. Unfortunately, we don't have anything in writing here. I think it's, that I got it, I think it's a good way out of this situation, because it's not the right thing to do and we don't need to vote on these issues or vote on it, especially not the Priors to declare someone and call anyone. Please, we must refrain from it, we are still Parliament and we simply have this obligation and we must respect it. It's an elemental, our elemental obligation. So I'm really trying to get out of this, not because, please, no one, I guarantee none of the people sitting here are against the initiative, and that initiative will be implemented one way or the other. It's just that if we're going to be satisfied with the answer, he'll answer. Unfortunately, this is a media theme that's been going on for weeks. It's on news shows every day this day. So, we're looking for information that's going to raise doubts. If it's not on that... trail, then we'll do it at the request of Mrs. Representative. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3368	Excuse me, before that, Mr. Rajić, so you'll get the word. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3369	Mr. Chairman, I think Mr. Branko Zrno has, in a way, corresponded with my opinion, said a lot of what I was going to say in the debate on this issue. But first, I must say, I really have no need or intention to defend anyone, not even myself, and otherwise, when I defend myself, you know well that I'm doing it much scarier than I'm doing right now. Therefore, I am not defending anyone, least of all the ministers from my party, but I am defending the principle, and I would not want Mrs. Majkić to experience as a proposing that her request has been ignored, that it has been rejected. I want to finally resolve that doubt in the following way, connecting to what Mr. Tihić was saying and what I mentioned earlier. So we are not rejecting the need to check the situation, but not in this order of action, but we are proposing, instead, that a conclusion be reached which will require the competent ministry full information on this issue, including the elements of the objection. If that information doesn't give us an answer to what you, Mrs. Majkić, are looking for, then it's clear that the next step is this. Here, I suggest you round up that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3370	Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3371	I thank my colleagues for understanding, and I accept that the conclusion of the House of Nations is therefore defined that within 15 days of the date of receipt of the conclusion, the House means, by the Ministry of Communications and Transport, full information on the criteria, procedures and method of distribution of CEMT licences for 2009 to domestic carriers. So... if we can reflect ourselves in a quality way for the meaning that we can really analyze that information, that there's enough data, that unless anything is written there, and we know that it happened, we'll think that the information can't satisfy us and we're looking for the formation of an investigative commission. Here, that could get us through this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3372	Thank you very much. If you would like to accept just one more of my little suggestions, with a complete, in that report that it is contained and another information – is it and how much in the complaint process, is there a complaint... some complaints etc. If these actions persist, should they say what they are and when they expect what time they could be completed? That would be very important. We can't go to Investigative Commission 10 if there's any procedure going on. It seems to me that this is a compromise proposal that the proposing is pleased with. I suggest, if she accepts Mrs Dušanka, that this part of the response be included in the agenda, the objections she has, and that this conclusion be placed on the agenda. I ask that Mrs. Dušanka give her service to type it up and that we have that conclusion in the form as we have heard it now. We have it on a stenogram, and we can take it off. I'm putting on a plea. So who's to make this conclusion, redefined as we've heard it now, so it's gonna be the 32nd item of the agenda? I'm opening a vote. Wait a minute, put your cards in your seats. You can approach the vote. So we have a unanimous decision from all three clubs. I find that we have established a agenda with a new point of 32, and I repeat this mistake that was of a printing nature under point 21. Point 21 reads: - Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Cultural Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Republic of China. It's finally. Thank you very much. This is what we set the agenda for, and before we go to the next point, I suggest we work up to 12 hours and 45 minutes. Then I'll take a break for lunch and other activities and we'll keep working at 2:00, and by 12.45 we'll try to do most of the work. We move to the first item of the agenda, which is: Ad. 1. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions The answers were received by Mr Tihić, Mr Rajić, Mr Šaraba and Mr Adem Ibrahimpašić. I'm going in line now and I'm asking Mr. Tihić if he's happy with the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3374	I'm not satisfied with any of the answers I've received. First, about the issue of an IPR agreement with Croatia and Serbia. When it comes to Croatia, it is obvious that nothing has been done in relation to the former Council of Ministers' activities. When it comes to Serbia, there is also no movement. I believe that the Council of Ministers is responsible for not resolving this issue, a team before Croatia showed its readiness and they are willing to sign the contract, that is our interest. We have over 2 billion values of property in Croatia that collapses every day, in various ways it reduces its value, while the value of Croatia's assets in BiH is somewhere around, they say, 500 million, mostly in RS. I think it is not correct 11 because of some partial interests or even some lobbies that have the property of the Republic of Croatia in the RS to stop the adoption of this property-legal law. There is a great responsibility here at the Council of Ministers and I think they must reach our internal consensus in BiH, because Croatia has the consent to sign this contract. When it comes to these other answers, as far as borders are concerned, regarding BiH's bilateral political relations with Serbia, I am also not satisfied, except that they realize that nothing has been done, that no ambassador has been appointed, that nothing is officially discussed on the borders. It is obvious that between BiH, Croatia and Serbia it is necessary to hold meetings of the Interstate Council and try to resolve some of these issues. From those discussions, the consultation I had, Malta, on the party line, I think there is an agreement between Serbia and Croatia that these issues should be raised from a dead end, so to speak, and even to come up with satisfactory solutions. For the past two years, there has been no session of the Interstate Council, and I think it would be necessary to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3375	I thank Mr. Tihić. Mr. Božo Rajić. Some MPs received two answers, let them refer to all the answers they received. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3376	Thank you very much. I've got the answer to the asked representative's question. In essence, I am pleased with the answer, but it would be even more satisfying if this information had been indicated that an interested candidate for the ombudsman who had not been elected had been informed of this information, and then my need for an answer would have been complete. However, I am obliged to warn again what was yesterday, Mr. Jović, it is obvious that more and more business and constitutional provisions on the delivery of material in the language of the people and on the letter of the people to whom it belongs are being ignored. I got a reply to the letter again, and in a language that doesn't belong, it doesn't belong to my constituent people. I would pray for the future, so I won't make a problem out of this, but it would really be my turn to finally start following this rule.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3377	Thank you very much. So, I immediately, to what you have just said, please and I am in charge, therefore, and I ask you to support me in this proposal: The Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly to submit the question of the MPs to ask for an answer in the language of the representative who asked that question. The Council of Ministers must respect that. Do you agree with that? Do it in all our next questions that will go towards anyone. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have had two delegate questions and I am not satisfied with the answers to any of the questions I have received. My first question was about the funds allocated to the Municipality of Straight for returnees of Serbian nationality in this municipality, which unfortunately have not been distributed yet. So, Budget was adopted last year at this time, funds were allocated to the opština of Ravno in May of the month, and only these days did the commission go around the field and determine the situation. It's really disastrous. And I personally think that the responsibility of the competent ministry does not end the moment when it allocates funds to municipalities, but it has to monitor the realization of the situation, intervene and influence that these funds are split very quickly and that they come to those people who really need them. And don't waste any time. And secondly, I asked for an answer about the criteria. Of course, I know these criteria very well, but very often people who work in the field on these jobs are asking people to declare their belongings to the appropriate political party. And I think it's absolutely unacceptable. That these people who have their torments should not be tortured in such a way and should be assigned to those who need them and who will use them in the right and the best way. And my other delegate question was about the border crossing on Ivanica. I'm absolutely unhappy with the answer. So, I didn't ask for an answer whether this land was private or state-owned. I asked if it was sold. And I got here from Minister Sadović at the last joint session the answer that this land was sold. But the Municipality of Ravna had to use the right it had, in any case, and that's the right to intercept the purchase, and to protect that border crossing, because there's a intention to build a border crossing four or five miles in the depth of the territory, and we all know that where the border crossing is, there's a point. And I demand that the work on this border crossing begin to be realized as soon as possible, because it stands here during 2009. And of course, in this answer, it says in one place that a session of the Joint Commission of BiH and Croatia, where the re-tegorisation of this border crossing should take place, will only take place in December. I don't know if this is a mistake. If this is true, it should not be maintained in December. So I ask my question that comes from this: "Is it really true that this session will take place in December of the month, and I suppose it is not accurate information?"
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3379	We haven't come to the point of any new questions yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3380	Let me finish, Mr. Chairman. I know that, but in order not to answer, I ask that this session of the Interstate Council be held as soon as possible and that the matter of retegorization be resolved by the beginning of the tourist season. Now, that's what we're asking. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3381	Thank you very much. Then make that your question, and it will be, and you will turn it over to the service. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić, you have already reached out. Is that a report?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3382	No, no, this is a discussion, an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3384	So... we're outsmarting here. I ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. a certain ministry: 'Why is there no excise duty on cigarettes from Croatia to the same extent that the state of Croatia is counting on our cigarettes going to Croatia?' So, it's sent to the Directorate for indirect taxation, then she says "there's no political will." When I asked what 'no political will' means, I'll read it to you, it's true, 'from the question of excise duty on tobacco imports', etc. and now concludes whether it is necessary to protect domestic production with higher tax rates to tax the excise duty on tobacco processing imported into BiH, as the neighbouring Republic of Croatia does: 'of course it is the political will of the BiH authorities, not the political will of the Directorate for indirect taxation'. People are right. I don't ask them, they can tell me, we have nothing to do with it. I'd like to file a request, please, to stop this. So here we have two damages. It is one pity that the state remains scarred in income, and another is the pity that our cigarettes do not have the same conditions on the Croatian market as Croatian cigarettes do on ours. I suggest the conclusion: That this thing, because now it's in preparation, if I'm not mistaken, amending the Excise Act, is being resolved on the basis of reciprocity. How are they to us, by them! Well, when they're done with us, we'll end them too. We've been outsmart like this for 10 years, Bog's asking you how much money we've lost, we're like the state of income, in Budget, and how much tobacco factory in Sarajevo, Mostar, I don't know where else, lost. So, I'm offering such a conclusion, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3385	Thank you very much. We're moving on to hearing new parliamentary questions. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3386	So, exactly 29.11., so right after 29.10, exactly after three months, on today, I asked myself, "Will the national balance be carried out at the Ministry of Security and what is the national composition?" And I got the answer. 14 Can we be satisfied individually. Here, about, the situation is like this. So, the Bošnjak in total at the Ministry of Security hold 81 positions, of which 60 high-level experts prepare and I will just talk about it. Srbin in the Ministry of Security have 47, of which 30 in the positions of the VSS and Hrvat have a total of 29 employees, of which at VSS 18. Looking at the situation of individual places, Bošnjak, meaning besides the minister, have a secretary, which should not be, but, behold, 13 department heads, four ministerial assistants, one deputy director, these are key positions in the ministry, totaling 19 positions of those that are more significant. When looking at the structure of these department heads, these are key resolutions: Combating terrorism, one; the other, the fight against organised crime; Information Security, the third; and the protection of airport borders, the fourth etc. I'm talking about those positions the Bošnjak are taking. Srbin take up: two ministerial assistants and five department heads. These include: Srbin in office, archives, administrative jobs and maintenance of equipment. These are the places that are held by Srbin. Hrvat are also in positions, so they have two ministerial assistants, they have three department heads and one deputy director, and in the position of these department heads one is for international organisation, some analysts and analysis and regulation and training supervision. So that's what I was saying that the state of the Ministry of Security really needs national balance, not only national but also in positions. So the other two nations should be put in a position to be adequately represented in this ministry. So, I'm glad I didn't insist on it in vain, but that this data told everyone enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3387	Thank you very much and accept my apology on behalf of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly. You're not listed here, because this is a question that you asked at the 2nd special joint session of both homes. The opinion was that this should not be put among the received answers at today’s session of the House of Peoples. In the future, I ask that the Secretariat, no matter where he sets up and when the answer has arrived, give the answers that have come to our representatives, that this is no longer happening. So, I'm sorry, I didn't have you registered. We're moving on to new representation issues. Šaraba started with his questions. Do you have any other questions besides the one we heard? Thank you very much. I ask the representatives, I have the application of Hazim Rančić and Mr Rude Vidović, Adem Ibrahimpašić and Hilmo Neimarlija. Well, this is the order I read you. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3388	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, for today I will have two brief questions. Namely, the Law on the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, members of the 7th and 8th, envisioned the obligation of the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to prepare, approve and deliver to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the adoption of the Information and Security Policy Platform, which contains general guidelines for the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, in line with international standards. 15 My question, therefore, goes and is addressed to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH: 'Why did the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency not carry out their obligation and prepare, approve and deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for adoption of the Information and Security Policy Platform for the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for 2009. A year?' My second question is very brief. It was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers to the chair and ministers: "Why do the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers at the Council of Ministers of BiH not attend the meetings of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3389	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3390	I have a parliamentary question addressed to the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency and is related to the use of radio spectrum in BiH. In fact, the Law on Communications of BiH The Regulatory Agency for Communications in cooperation with the Council of Ministers is directly responsible for the management of frequencies and for drawing up a frequency plan. The Agency, under the same law, is also taking appropriate measures to ensure the effective and uninterrupted use of the BiH radio spectrum. In addition, the Communications Agency adopts a radio spectrum purpose plan defining radio frequencies or radio frequency ranges intended for individual radio communications and individual user groups. It is known that the liberalisation of the communication market in BiH is already seeing the intention and need for the introduction of so-called. 5 generations of WiMAX wireless access systems in the range of 3.5 GHz. But it is also known to everyone that the existing transmission and broadcasting infrastructure of the public TV system BiH is using part of the frequency spectrum provided for WiMAX services, with whose decision, I do not know. The release of the disputed radio frequency range would certainly protect domestic telecom operators, would certainly speed up the process of introducing digital television in BiH, meet international commitments on harmonised use of radio frequencies, etc. In this regard, I therefore ask the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications: 'When will the frequency spectrum be released for WiMAX services, which is currently being used by the Public TV System BiH.' Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Mr. Ibrhimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3392	I have two questions. One question is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I will read it: 'On 23 September 2008, it means more than four months ago, the BiH brewery committee at the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which makes up all domestic breweries, submitted a formal request under Protocol 25-9130/08 to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in order to initiate protection measures to address the issue of excessive levels of beer imports, which accounts for some 63% of the total consumption in BiH in 2007. This formal request was submitted in accordance with the Decision on measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports, adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH on 23 September 2002, (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No. 30/2002, pursuant to Articles 31 and 33. The Act on Foreign Trade Policy of BiH (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, No. 7/98) and Article 14. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is also in accordance with Article 22. CEFTA Agreement. Article 22 The CEFTA Agreement defines that any CEFTA member may impose safeguards in the event that the State can demonstrate excessive imports which cause serious damage to the domestic industry. The brewing industry committee provided all the necessary official data to prove excessive imports and proved that there is a case for the introduction of unilateral measures by BiH." The question is, When will the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or act on the request of the Committee of the brewing industry or reject it? Look out, it's been over four months. We could have financed this, otherwise it takes a lot more than this one procedure farmers, but they can't and they don't have the money to finance this. Second question to the Council of Ministers. In January, on a television show, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Mr. Šepić said that I quote "in the drawers of the Council of Ministers Presidents there are about 200 completed legal projects". How generally does the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH seem to be quite unemployed, the question is: 'How many completed legal projects are they,' reportedly saying, 'in the drawers of the Council of Ministers Presidents, and why are these laws not being put into parliamentary procedure?'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3393	Thank you very much. Professor Neimarlija. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3394	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates and guests, I have one question to address to the RS prime minister, justice ministers and RS refugees, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the High Representative and the OSCE Mission in BiH. For years, RS's most responsible responsibilities have pointed out on various occasions the implementation of property laws and the return of property as one of the successes of the RS authorities. Following the pre-Bajram burning of the mosque in Kula Fazlagic, these officials issued statements of equality between members of different religious and ethnic communities in the RS and of the firm commitment of the RS authorities to preservation and equality. However, does it make any sense to say that we have entered 14 years since the signing of the Dayton Agreement and that Fati Orlović has not yet returned the property? That even after 13 years and 2 months of Dayton peace and law, the returnees to Konjević Field are not allowed to use their own garden? Fati Orlović is denied the right to own property, on his own garden. The old woman from Konjević Polje is harassed, tortured and terrorized, because she seeks her right under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the Dayton Peace Agreement and its aneks IV, VI and VII, according to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The court and other RS authorities mock these highest legal acts by BiH and today's world and, misusing lower legal acts, punish Fata Orlović. By punishing Fata Orlović, they refer to returnees in RS a message that is incomparably more concrete and significantly different from messages that are conveniently referred to by senior RS officials. A few days ago, the district court in Bijeljenja sentenced Fata Orlović to a month in prison. The verdict was passed without being sentenced to one or the other by a court of law. Can this act be accepted differently than as a horrifying case of mockery with justice as a civilizational disgrace? The prime minister of the RS, justice ministers and refugees, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, the High Representative, the OSCE Mission in BiH, I refer the following question: "When will the reckless double violence against Fata Orlović be halted and when will the returnee from Konjevic Polje finally be able to enjoy the elementary human pave of ownership and the fundamental human freedom of uninterrupted movement in her house and her garden?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3395	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3396	The question was addressed to the Council of Ministers. For years, BiH carriers have been the only ones in Europe who cannot have a TIR marking on trucks that allow easier and cheaper cross-border transport across Europe. Because of the slow and inefficient resolution of this problem in BiH, domestic carriers, as well as the country's economy, suffer major financial losses. Without a TIR mark, our carriers, instead of cruise European roads and bringing in so much money needed to develop these 18 countries, they keep their trucks parked and waiting for domestic politicians to finally do something for them. Or, if they decide to transport, they pay bigger guarantees to cross the border, they have to wait in endless columns at the borders, and not just that. To reach certain countries, drivers must carry a large amount of cash. If they had a TIR tag, they'd have a much easier and easier crossing across the border. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer the following question urgently: 'As BiH is the only country in Europe that is not a member of the TIR system, please respond when will the TIR system be established in BiH?'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3397	Thank you very much. I've reported more Mr. Tihić. Here you go, Mr. Tihić. If anyone else wants to, check in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3398	I don't know if I'm going to be precise until the end, but later I'm going to write that question down, but I've been asked by Adem Ibrahimpašić's discussion about tobacco factories, about the inability to export cigarettes to Croatia, and at the same time we have, I don't know, our market flooded, for years, cigarettes from Croatia, and not a single pack of cigarettes from tobacco factories can be carried out in Croatia or any other country. I think it's simply unacceptable. I cannot understand our people in the ministries that work and who are in charge of these jobs and who has the right to say there is no political will. So, what's our political will? Our political will is to protect domestic production. Our political will is to collect bigger revenues. Our political will is to help the cooperatives from whom that tobacco is redeemed. I know, in Savina there and Semberia, that this tobacco is being redeemed. Our political will is to reduce the deficit. Who can now say there at the Board of Directors of Direct Taxation, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Trade – that our political will is different? I have information that the Management Board has proposed amendments to the Excise Act, which are projected somewhere based on tobacco excise duties to pick up something like 50, 50 million extra. And there is a proposal, if we could introduce opposition to Croatia, that would be 157 million. Who has the right to do this... from some personal, group or, I don't know, the interests of others? Well, I guess we all live off this bug!? I guess we take pensions from this budget and we go to school, etc. This doesn't make sense. I mean, this is such a serious question, and for a few years some, you know, in these ministries, in the administrations are being made deaf. And for this reason I ask the question why, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Council of Ministers: 'Why not propose amendments to the Excise Act, why not introduce reciprocity, not only for tobacco but for all other products? What are these lobbies that can stop BiH's political interests? And yet, beware, they are called that there is no political consensus, political will, and just work. The political will is to protect domestic production, the political will is to collect as much public revenue as possible so that our cooperatives can produce tobacco and buy it, not sell other people's cigarettes. And our political will is that we can export and reduce the trade deficit. 19 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3399	Thank you very much. All we have to do is specify the question, we have the answer, we have the explanation of the question. Since there are no reports, I conclude; there is still Ivo Miro Jović, I apologize. It wasn't on the monitor. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3400	Thank you very much. I don't have a question, but I'd just suggest. It would be very important and good if when such questions are asked, they do not refer to only one country. It is not, and it is said here that this applies to the Republic of Croatia. __________? Ivo Miro [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3401	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on point 1. We move on to the adoption of the minutes under point 2. Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 23rd session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Let him smoke whoever he wants, and whenever he wants, let's keep working. Let's keep working, Mr. Jović. Who wants a word about the 23rd session? I'm opening a debate. He doesn't want anyone. I'm closing up. I'm putting the record of the 23rd session on the record. 20 Who Is “For ”? Open vote. I agree that we unanimously accepted the 23rd session. Moving to point 3. Point 3 is the key point of today's session, but the same no less significant are other points. Ad. 3. Nationals' College's request to consider draft Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations 2009 following a hasty procedure delivered by the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3404	So, I just want to say a few words. Today's date warns us... what procedure it should be. It's January 29th, we should have made the Budget a long time ago, and this is really the last moment to decide. So, the Serbian People's Delegates Club will support a decision to consider Budget as an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3405	Thank you very much. This home is the least guilty that today, by our decision, we are making this budget of the BiH state. So, so far, there's been a lot of complications and dissipation and here's all of them, so we can, we have a clear space to bring this budget today. So, does anyone else need to say anything? Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3406	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives and other participants of this session today, I would really like to express my satisfaction that after a heated debate on this issue of adopting the BiH Budget, as one of the most important and political and economic and social issues of every 21 countries, and also this, that a consensus has finally been reached, and therefore I think that, not only I, but that the representatives of the rest of the House of Peoples, will reduce well their debate on the essence. I think the most important thing today is that we have reached agreement and that we will have the 2009 budget of BiH, and the internal structure, I, as far as I could see, have seen that, as it is, it is mostly more or less common. Therefore, we will support this budget without any additional requirements and any amendments, and I expect that other colleagues will behave as well, because I see no reason and it is not productive to enter into such a plot, but I still have a technical objection. Those who have prepared the material should make sure that we do not see this with good glasses, because this could be done technically differently to see this data that we have received. I think Mr. Kasumović understood what it was about.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3407	Thank you very much. I think there's an observation in place, and those numbers could be a little bit bigger. I wish they were a little bigger in the end. But we can't influence that. Here, I'm under the impression that there are no more applications for discussion. I'm putting the procedure to the vote, this request to do so today as a matter of urgency. Who is “for. ” The vote is open. We have an entity majority and we have two abstentions. The procedure has been accepted. Now we're going to get to the bottom of this proposal. Open vote. You're welcome to vote. We have one vote “against, ” we have two“ abstentions, ” we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3408	He didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3409	We'll do it again if he hasn't voted, if you think you have something. So there's no amendment action, we know that, we've accepted the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3410	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3411	You have an irresistible desire. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3412	Mr. Chairman, don't, we've had enough already. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3413	Please, I won't, I can't deny you the desire to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3414	Let me tell you something. No, we've been stripped of our right as the House to put amendments on the Budget. We've been in a position for a few years now that this house can't put amendments on the budget. And don't, in addition to our right to be taken away, because we don't have time, because we're in trouble, don't... don't make it impossible for us not to even talk about it. So, that's, let people have the right to say something about Budget. So no one argues that we will support, we must support, we have no choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3415	Nobody slows it down, you have the word, go with the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3416	So, please, I've been trying for several years to do one thing that I think is necessary: to act in one amendment, but I've been disabled for the third year. BiH has BHMAC to deal with demining. The funds for demining this country are being raised by a Slovenian fund. BiH has not been able to form its fund with minimum funds for years and other countries are investing in this fund so that we can control the funds that are coming, but Slovenia knows how and how it delivers these funds, because they hold that part of the funds. So, I am bitter that as a delegate and a member of this Parliamentary Assembly, I cannot influence the correction of things that should be corrected by this budget. So I couldn't help but say it and I don't believe that it matters to anyone. But I want it to be known that this home has been disabled for years because of the time spent by the House of Representatives and because of the late arrival of all the consents that come to the Budget, that it has the opportunity to act on it. So I'm asking you to have an understanding of it, at least we have the right to say our anger about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3417	Thank you very much. I had no intention of taking anyone's words away, though. Anyone who answers the word, we'll only wear out the debate once no one answers. But as the House has previously declared its hasty procedure, there is no amendment. So I figured, here's obviously wrong that there won't even be a debate. I apologize and now I give my word to Mr. Rančić. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3418	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, respecting the fact that as a House, we supported an emergency procedure for the adoption of the Budget Law proposal, it is clear that there are no amendments, regular procedures and there are arguments as to what my colleague Majkić said, related to the procedure for the budget that is repeated year after year and before our home. So I will only express my dissatisfaction – here, so I will vote for the budget – but at least with one part of the budget. It concerns the leases that are increasing in our budget year by year. I also asked a delegate question about it. Our Council of Ministers said: they will take action to reduce the budget in a way that will either buy or build new buildings for the BiH institutions. However, it is small from their response. When you look at Budget in that section about the cost of renting with 18,758,712 marks, as planned in 2008, the budget plan for 2009 is 26,844,000, which is an increase of 8,085,288 compared to the previous year. When you look at this list of rental costs in the Budget document, you will see which institutions are affected by the increase in this lease. What surprises me very much is that this is the largest lease increase at the Department of Defense in the amount of 8,689,538 KM. Is it, in addition to all the property they had (you know, that army, which was inherited by the Army of the Republic of BiH, etc.) and activities relating to the identification of perspective locations, etc. - What is this, so in the Department of Defense it's necessary to allocate more than 8.5 million money for additional leases? And it's not the only institution, so the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers has a percentage of 1.623 increases, then the Foreign Trade Ministry 253%, the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency 403%, the Veterinary Office 159%. So it's about institutions that had a lease last year, and then suddenly there's an enormous increase in the cost of leases in these institutions. We can also list the National Service Agency 803%, the Institute of Standardisation, the Institute of Measurement, the Institute of Health Protection, and then the Office for Health Protection Plants 238%, the Public Procurement Appeal Office 121%), the Public Procurement Agency 130%, the Economic Planning Directorate 292% increase, the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office 424%, etc. So, here I only wanted to show through these facts how non-domestic relations with regard to the spending of these funds, because I believe that the lease should not be increased, but these funds should be used either in a way or in buying or in building new buildings for the purposes of BiH institutions, or in existing assets and buildings that are state property or some other, any other institution, to accommodate the new and existing BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3419	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just comment briefly. I really have no intention of commenting on the Budget question, I would just point out one moment, and that's that a few days ago at 11. With an interparliamentary meeting in Brussels, our delegation had one remark from European parliamentarians. The issues of Budžet, i.e. the failure to adopt the budget of the BiH institution for 2009. I think this step will send a positive message and I welcome this decision from that side. Obviously we're going to bring her to this session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3421	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3422	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'm not going to read anything, repeat anything, I just volunteered for this, because I'm one of the participants in the preparation of budgetary needs of institutions that are the biggest budgetary users – the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security. There's Mrs. Majkić, too. We know their needs, we also know objective needs, we also know how to get out of this reading what my colleague Rančić has done now, because the completion of the SIPA building releases the huge funds that are given for rent. But I'm glad he mentioned this for a simple reason, I guess now finally, and based on this almost statistic, we figure out what this means to solve the property issue in this country. And it won't happen again, once we've solved that question, what's happening now. Respecting first what counterpart Rajić said at the beginning, I don't think there's any need for me to say any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3423	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3424	I'm aware of the fact that we can't change anything here, but I can't help but comment. It seems to me that this is an uneven treatment of certain budget beneficiaries by the Council of Ministers who have been preparing Budget for this year. This morning, I saw from the media that the president of the BiH Court organised a press conference, as her funds for this year were provided to minors in the same amount as for the previous year, which prevented the effective functioning of the institution she chaired. And here, I see last year they had 10,379,000, and this year 10,520,000. 25 But when I look at some other institutions, not only institutions but here, for example. The General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, they were there to influence themselves through the Council of Ministers to provide budget funds to them in a larger amount. For example, they have it. an increase of more than 1,200,000 marks, and I don't think I should speak of the importance of the BiH Court in the overall consolidation of state-level institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3425	Thank you very much. The list of reported has been exhausted. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. There's an open opportunity to plead. Here you go. We received the budget with one vote “against ” and two“ abstentions. ” Thank you very much. I agree that we adopted the 2009 budget. And then... behind the break we will immediately access all of these activities that we have now heard, which is necessary to take, we as Dom, to try to have a budget for next year by the end of this year. Here, let it be our task to all three clubs. Thank you very much. We're going to the fourth point, that's "Ad." 4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement by a hasty procedure So, according to our Article 122. Home decides first on the request. The amendments don't invest and I won't make a mistake like I did before. I'm opening my first debate. Does anyone have a need? I'm closing the debate. And I'll put it on, so the House of Representatives accepted this as a matter of urgency. _________(?) Sharaba raises his hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3428	It's tech, Mr. Chairman. So, I really want to ask one question: 'Do we need a debate under Article 122 when we are considering this law, since in the materials that we received before this session we received the Law on Public Procurement?' So, what does this mean? Please, sir, I understand, so we have changes and additions that are not significant and are not important and we have this law that we asked to come here to parliamentary procedure and to discuss it as soon as possible. I really think that we should pay attention to the law that is in the materials and pay attention to it, and not to these changes and supplements that are absolutely insignificant and we don't need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3429	Thank you very much. So, if I may say from the point of view, we are obliged as the Dom, as the last instance of decision-making, which has passed all the procedures and even parliamentary to us, to end this procedure, regardless of what some new proposal has been going on for these amendments in the meantime, and this applies to the same matter. That's why we have to make a statement. The House of Representatives has accepted this. It's really about one article or two, it's about renominating some numbers. You've seen what this is about. This has made it possible for it to be an emergency procedure – just to finish – haste procedure, because it is such minor changes that it would be a waste of time to go to regular procedure. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3430	Just a sentence,... I thought I shouldn't, but since these are changes that are relevant to the contractual authorities and that the question is how long the procedure for the adoption of the new law will take, I think it should be accepted, so I don't need to waste any more time on this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3431	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate and opening the vote. Here you go. We have one vote “against, ” everything else is“ for. ” We've made a statement, therefore, that we're going into an emergency procedure. Now we're going to vote on the bill. There's an open possibility, please come in, come in. The same result, one "against" and unanimously accepted the draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement as well as the House of Representatives. We're going to point 5, that's 27 Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act following a hasty procedure, also under Article 122. I would like to remind you that the House of Representatives did not accept that he was going through a hasty procedure, but rather accepted that proposal from the law to be considered by a reduced procedure. I'm opening the debate. Here you go. Who wants a word? Mrs. Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3433	First, I'm glad to see Mr. Haris Podbičanin here, as a tariff expert, and he can certainly help that many of the dilemmas that exist here to get rid of. Since the Serbian delegates' club will support the proposal to consider it by emergency procedure, the first reason is for domestic processors to be threatened by a suspension of production unless the law is adopted by emergency procedure. The other law is formulated in a very simple way, so it can either be adopted or rejected as a whole. Secondly, the special argument which guides me to support such a law in this proposal is that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority – this is the first time I've known, for the fifth year I've been in Parliament – has first given the consent to introduce these tariffs... We know before that, we fought over meat. The flesh had its canals. We know that "ASA Auto" was getting, it was getting means importing parts that were only related to "ASA Auto". We are now opening quotas for all producers, or sugar processors. There is not a single one – I read somewhere that tariff quotas for imports of raw sugar at privileged customs rates are foreseen even by EU regulations – so, the same thing they do in Europe, we did for the first time. Therefore, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Relations, the proposal was supported by the Directorate for Direct Taxation. I don't see any reason why the House of Representatives has decided to refer it to a brief procedure, or what has he done with it? He opened the space to make a procedure for a large number of products, for which they are certainly at this point, we know that the Direct Taxation Administration will not give consent. So I'm calling on really delegates to believe, so here's what I expect Mr. Podbičanin will say something about this subject, where and why, and it seems to me that the indirect taxation board has taken almost half a year to make a decision about it. So I believe she previously examined all the arguments that spoke about this. So, here's what we're going to do. We're going to support the motion to get it through the emergency procedure. So, the reasons that were at the House of Representatives may be the reasons that were valid there. But opening a procedure for many more items, it does not prevent anyone from creating a new initiative and starting, so convince the Ministry of Economic Relations, or the Management Board of indirect taxation, to initiate such a procedure, but with this procedure it should end. So, we'll support this request. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3434	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3435	I support what the House of Representatives has resolved to be done in a short procedure, and here's why. Otherwise, I don't think it's at all good to make changes and supplementing this law for just one product. I believe that each and every one of you comes from many producers who are now on re-promatter, outside the EU, have to pay, I don't know you, a 10% customs duty that collects their production, are not curient on the domestic market, I can't export, etc. And now all of these producers are just sugar producers. I don't mind finding sugar producers there, but I don't think that's good. It creates a space for speculations of a variety, and we've witnessed these days in the media why it's just, I don't know, for one, not for the other, etc. I don't think this law should be passed at all. But here, it went into procedure here. I think that the Council of Ministers should make a law that will include all other producers who import re-promatter from non-EU countries, especially those who export most of it. You know, that's how we reduce the foreign trade deficit, even those who don't export, they're cheaper by a certain percentage, so they'll be more curent to imported goods. Therefore, the Council of Ministers should have seen this problem fully, not just singled out one producer, which created a space for various speculations that probably have no basis. So, in the end, I liked to have this back to the Council of Ministers and to make a real proposal to amend and supplement the law, but I guess we're in such a procedure as to predict that we have to make a statement, so here I am, for that brief procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3436	Thank you very much. So, we're only discussing procedure here. We're engaged in a discussion about details. I'm only asking about the procedure. Are we going to accept an emergency procedure, or are we going to bow down, so the pace is procedural, how did the House of Representatives do it, or are we going to do something third? __________? /microphone off/ Wait a minute, we've got more debates on the table. Mr. Rančić, then Mr. Ibrahimpašić, and then Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3438	Thank you very much, Chairman. So, I'm not in favour of accepting an emergency procedure to consider this law. Why? For the following reasons. I believe that all domestic producers, and not only sugar producers, and in accordance with the CEFTA Agreement, should, therefore, be provided with the same treatment, allow them and allow them to have the imputements they need to apply to their production, whether they are treated as they are related to the production of sugar. I don't think it's good to make exceptions just for individual producers. It's another thing. In the light of this proposal for a law of the General Secretariat, as well as the reasoning of the Council of Ministers of this Act, it states that sugar producers cannot obtain in sufficient quantities of this raw material at favourable prices, neither on the domestic market nor on the market of CEFTA Signatory Countries. They're just stating it, and we have no arguments as proof of their claims. So we don't see it from this explanation, it's just their opinion, they wrote it, but we don't see if it's true. Third. In the proposed law, we do not have the financial aspects of this law – what and how many BiH states lose by adopting this law, and what does it gain by enabling more favourable status for sugar producers? I think that this topic should be processed in a whole way, so that we don't go from case to case, that for all our producers who need this treatment and this status we pass the law and let them know if it's equal treatment. And that's why I'm here for this regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3439	Thank you very much. So here's three suggestions. Here you go, Ibrahimpašić, then Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3440	Is it my turn? I did. No matter what the president warns that there's only talk of procedure, I'm for procedure that she goes by one procedure, I'm who I am, is, as a producer entirely on the side of these people. Therefore, I cannot dispute the need of all and one producer that there is no obligation on what is going on in his product, so on any re-promaterial or raw material. We have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement of some 450 million customs, as far as we've charged, I allow this information to be not the most accurate, some 250 million but lost, and now we're trying to calm it through these excises, here on tobacco, among other things, etc. There's about 200 million left. I think it's so small and it can now be calmed down through excises on fuel that fell drastically, that all manufacturers have comforts, that they have no customs duties, imposes state on no repromaterials or on any raw material imported from any country. I know it's not going to work that way, but I can't get in the way when here, and this unrefined sugar that's much cheaper to import into this country without that charge, so maybe we'll have cheaper sugar, then we'll be more competitive to export that kind of sugar. Although I allow it to be done, 30 really needs all the inputs that the state has on raw materials and repromaterials to undo. Tomorrow there's going to be some wheat in Ukraine, I'm just talking, she was usually the wheat until the revolution of the whole of Europe. We will have to pay customs duty on that wheat because it is not from the EU. So, I am for an emergency procedure. I'll vote for this as a producer, but it should insist that everyone imposes on the repromary and raw materials the domestic economy is destroying. To who, 200 million? So, I don't know if I've talked a lot, I think, and that's how I'm going to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3441	Thank you very much. But we have two other debaters reported here. However, as agreed, up to 15 to 1, we will delay the work. We'll continue after lunch at 1400 hours. [[PAUZA]] Shall we take our seats? We'll begin the session. Mr. Tihić will join us, and he won't mind what we do. We stopped and said we'd pick it up at two, and we've been through a little bit of time. And we have two other registered debaters related to the procedure of the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. Here we are. Mrs. Majkić, it seems to me, and Mr. Rajić, right, they stayed as reported debaters. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3443	So, I don't have, I don't want to say anything except that I want to suggest that we have a man from the Ministry who sat here until a moment ago, and I think that was supposed to be at the beginning, a man who deals with tariffs and who's the initiator of the proposal, and I think you should give him a word. I guess he's still here somewhere. If you'll let me...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3444	Don't you, there's someone from the Secretariat who'll do it. Look who's in charge here from the Council of Ministers regarding this law, enter the hall. I'll ask, are you through with the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3445	I didn't have any discussion. I had a proposal for him to answer it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3446	The proposal has been accepted. We'll hear the expert point of view, but we have three different views on which procedure we need to go. 31 Mr. Rajić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3447	Mrs. Majkić, if she were here for this, I don't understand what collection it is. We agreed, can we?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3448	Mrs. Majkić just used all her strictness.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3449	So here I would like to look again at something that is a question of our principled relationship to the topics we are discussing. It seems to me that we have fallen into a trap to stick to all matters equally as constitutional solutions or when it comes to the correction of one article of a law to establish the principle of all or nothing. We act by the fact that man is obliged to save humanity, and I believe that one man should be saved first, and then let mankind be saved. What's the big deal about an idea? One who had a feeling or saw the need to change the customs tariff on a producer group, submitted a request and we are discussing it. We are not at all discussing the right or the need to take such an approach, an initiative to amend the law, make and those other processors that Ibrahimpašić spoke of, but do not condition that today we reject this idea to place everything together or nothing. Therefore, I, unlike all these polemics of so far and doubt, am in favour of solving this in the way that the House of Representatives has resolved, adopt this amendment, because it is in the function of domestic production, and whoever has a better initiative or addition to this initiative, I will support each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3450	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Is there anyone else who needs to say something about this? I wouldn't give a word to anyone now, our exclusive authority without any proposals. Here is the proposal for us: practically the law came from the House of Representatives. We must declare ourselves on our own without anyone, so that we do not enter into the measure of things, the details that we do not talk about. We also have an explanation for this bill, but we would have to reconcile three views now. We have here a suggestion that the law goes by haste procedure. That means, I don't need to say anything, so we've got these changes and additions adopted today, and there's no change in action, we're finishing the job now. The House of Representatives acted completely differently. He provided the opportunity to discuss this law, possibly to prepare these tariff quotas for other products in BiH, so that this customs duty is set to zero here, the zero duty rate foreseen for this product, so the possibility of a shorter procedure acting on the proposal of this act is opened. And we have this third request, which differs from 32 of the same club, so the club president agrees, Mr. Tihić, that this goes in a shortened procedure. I'd like to see Mr. Rančić reternize, because he asked for a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3451	...the president of the club made it a little better...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3452	Okay, here's to agree, so what you stand for, although I personally prefer and talked to my colleagues from the club and sourced it out of this, we heard now and Mr Rajić, that we respect the procedure that the House of Representatives has; yes, let's say, we can now say this is an emergency procedure, it will be changed in the House of Representatives, again the same procedure must be conducted with us or consent and threaten to drop this law at consent. In order not to do that, we provide an opportunity and we lead the coordination, so my proposal is to respect all the suggestions but now I am making my point, so that I confirm and bow to those who are in order to go through a reduced procedure as the House of Representatives did. And since this is the first proposal that we plead because the proposal is an emergency procedure, we must first declare whether we are in a hurry procedure, and then we will plead for other procedures. I don't close the debate, I don't close the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You want to make a little deal? Two minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3456	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3457	No, four is enough. Two-thirds are four of your votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3458	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3459	Of course you do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3460	One session of the House passed at the wrong interpretation of Mr Mladen Ivanić. I'm not the only person who here, who... if nothing, we're going to be looking for an interpretation, but the SNSD took good care of when he gave the fourth place that belonged to us to the PDP so it doesn't endanger the position of being able to decide within the club and three votes are present either for making or not making 34 decisions. So I'm asking you not to question all the votes we've cast so far. I know you've been in the House too long that thing isn't familiar to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3461	You see, I wouldn't be the one to take it for granted right now, based on what you said, say no, it's not how we've done the mandate so far and so far and until today's decision. We've made a decision and I'd like to conclude it this way, if that's okay with you. We made a decision. If the College; I'll open up a debate on what we heard from Mrs. Majkić, but I'd give it to an analysis, the figures are quite clear, 3.2 is more than 3 people. So that's math one. This mathematics counts on everyone who can count, the doctor of economic science is Mr. Ivanic, I would not now question what has been the practice so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3462	Please, it's only been a practice once so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3463	In this congregation?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3464	Only on one case introduced by Mr Ivanic. Here, we'll ask the OHR, if we can't ask anyone, we'll ask the OHR to say if it's 3 or 4, please don't. We're introducing a new practice to make certain decisions. It's changing the relationship they've been worth so far. So that's the first time Mr Ivanić introduced it and never was. So I must really seek protection that this is not an interpretation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3465	I just have to say more... I'll make this lucid observation, you're the only one who doesn't want OHR services, now you need OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3466	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3467	Well, there are two things, you see. But I have to make a lucid note. So we've had this application so far, all we know is that 3.2 is so two thirds of 5; 3.2 is not three people, man is the whole being, it's more than human. I ask the opinion and other colleagues, it is now whether or not we have made a decision. Can we conclude that we have made the decision, and let it be interpreted later, so whether the decision is valid or not? And who's going to interpret it, I'm asking you, if it isn't this Parliament? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3468	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3469	Sure, go as long as it takes, whoever it takes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3470	Okay, well, we're obviously doing well today on both the most important and the most controversial issues we're having, and we're arguing equally. So, I am not an native in this house, there are you who have spent two here, so some have also spent three mandates in the BiH Parliament. This is the first time I've heard, this mathematical calculation, that the two-thirds majority of 5:3 is. Mathematically, Mrs. Majkić is right. In mathematics, the numbers below 0.5 are rounded down, and over 0.5 are rounded to more. However, if you have had the interpretation and practice of all these years that the two-thirds majority of 5:4, then go ahead and give us an authentic interpretation, do not lead us astray, do not lead the public astray.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3471	I have to say 5:3 = 1.6 x 2 = 3,333. It's about math. In this case, I have to mention one other thing. There is no doubt here that we made a decision between Tihić and me, there was no doubt that we made a decision when it came to Mr Ivanić. And I would only read the business provision, open the Rules of Procedure, see Article 160. (The interpretation of Rules of Procedure) only has the right to the College and the OHR cannot be my interpreter above what it says in the implementing act, the act under which this home works. Look, I'll read it for a stenogram. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (Employment of Rules): 'The College shall decide, when necessary, on the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, until the House decides otherwise on the conclusion or amendments to the Rules of Procedure.' So this is as clear as a mother's tear. And we've concluded the vote, but I'm giving you the right to say what you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3472	The College does not make up two members, the College makes up three members.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3473	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3474	The college consists of three members. Do not abuse the fact that there is no Mr. Mladen Ivanić who would have to say today exactly whether he is rounding up to 3 or rounding up to 4. I beg you, don't put us in this position that you can be in tomorrow. So don't let us introduce new procedures that never existed. In the last term, Mr Filipović, 36 have always been enough for a decision like this. So this is the first time that you, in this conference, are the only ones in college who's from the last convocation and you're introducing these new procedures. I'm asking you not to play with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3475	No, we can conduct a civilized, civilized dialogue without any anger, let's go talk to the arguments and there's no reason to be angry with yours for me or mine for you. So we're why I'm saying Kolega don't object. Well, the fellow that he's silent here, he's just about to take four, and that's why I'm not holding the barrister. If the two of us feel the same way, then Ivanic is indisputable. So, the College thinks it's three small to stop in the second round. So, any other opinions? Miro, here you go. Excuse me. Mr. Jović, please. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3476	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3477	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3478	Miro, the break has an advantage over the discussion. I'm setting a 30-minute break. So, let's keep working at three o'clock. [[PAUZA]] We'll keep working. I would now ask Mrs. Majkić to state the reasons for asking for a break in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3480	Well, thank you. So we tried to find a way out of this, because otherwise our club couldn't continue to participate in the work of the House. And I ask that another option be considered, which represents the possibility of getting out of this situation. ... The statement on point 6 we have concluded, but that it does not go further into procedure until the College meets and solves that question, so what, three or four is for making decisions two-thirds, so whether it's three or four. Secondly, we would like to ask the House to consider that, from point 7 to point 15, we will leave both the debate and the plea when the College is in full composition, because we will once again be in a situation that we will not be able to make a decision and start from point 16 to 32 to finish that part of the activity. 37 Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3481	You've heard that it's credible, with little corrections, so to conclude that point 6, that's the Sport Act we voted on, and it would be very bad if we voted on that law again. We have made a decision about him, and he has been accepted by the House of Peoples. But for the reasons that the lady said it would be good for all three members of the College to sit in full formation and take their stand so as not to rush to further parliamentary procedure, let them sit in the House of Peoples and we will not send him to the House of Representatives until we decide. Points 7 to 15, at the conclusion of point 15, would be left to me for the next session. So we won't even discuss them today. It was a combination of discussing without deciding. My suggestion, Mrs Dušanka accepted it, that we leave it for the next session. So we'll just move them for one session and... until then we'll have a position, a college position, that from point 16, we'll include point 16, and by 32 we'll discuss today and decide, because it's practically, by our assessment, we'll hear the other MPs, the undeniable points today for discussion and decision-making. That is, that is a proposal and we already have Mr Rajić's application for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3482	Mr. Chairman, I do not want to continue the debate on this issue, which you have offered some compromise solution, but I would like to ask the Serbian Representatives' Club to consider once again why, is there any reason to remove both points 8 and 9. It is about the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, which passed the unanimous first reading of both homes, to which there are no amendments and it would be rational to resolve this today, not to leave it for the second session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3483	Thank you very much. Of course, here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3484	There's really no reason for that, but we thought that since this is the way we agreed to decide, there's no reason why we shouldn't make a statement about those two laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3485	Which means it would be 7, 8, 9, 8, 8, and 9, right? 38 [[Common discussion]] Eight and nine, yes, yes, eight and nine. Anybody else need to talk? Professor Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3487	Well, if we can already understand each other operationally about these points 8 and 9, I think there's even less reason why we shouldn't even be clear about these bill proposals under number 12 and 14. Proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, because here we have first reading, laws with one or two amendments. I mean, there isn't, there's nothing controversial, there's no amendments either, and we're even going to suggest that we make a statement today in the second reading. I mean, this aviation thing maybe, well, well, it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3488	You mentioned, now that it's not disputed, 12 and 14? Let's move on. So if we agree with what we've agreed here now, we've added new points 8 and 9, 12 and 14, the rest between 7 and 15 that I didn't mention to discuss at the next session, we move them for the next session. Secretary, write it down. We're at point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Secret Information (Second Reading) – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the Work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency This is a second reading and the House of Representatives passed the bill in the proposed text. You got the report. The commission had also accepted this and there were no amendments. So this is the same undeniable thing for us, me personally. I'm opening the debate. I'm obliged to open the debate. There's no one else's need. I'm closing the debate and putting it on the line. It's open to vote. Here you go. I find that, with one "abstained" voice, we have adopted this law in another reading. 39 We move to point 9. That is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH. I'm correcting the finding, so it was an empty chair and I thought it was "abstained", the same sign. So it was unanimously accepted by 13 votes. So we move to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH (second reading) – Proposer: Joint Security and Intelligence Committee for the Control of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3492	I just want to ask you a question. Is this here in the memo we received says it's in accordance with Article 122 that he's going through an emergency procedure. And now I'm asking if there's a mistake in the agenda or if it's a mistake in what we got? In what, what's real? So we were delivered to comply with Article 122. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3493	Just to check the act, it says here article 100 here, so here in the act, just a little bit, in the act that I'm seeing for the first time. This is an act by which the Secretariat, therefore professional services, is referred to in Article 122 of the House of Representatives. I'd really ask you to make less mistakes, read it three times. You're right, according to article 122 of the proposal that came from the House of Representatives. And we have to put it on the agenda the way the proposer delivered it to this house. I'm asking for a correction and for a decision. So, first, let's get to the point of the rush procedure, and then we'll talk about the law without amendments. No doubt, in the act, here's an act in front of me, no doubt. I'm opening a debate, so we're talking about a new announcement that it's an emergency procedure. Does anyone need to talk? So in front of me is an act that has not been presented to us in an adequate sense. I would like to make a statement to the House of Representatives' proposal that this Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure be considered by an urgent procedure. The vote is open. Here you go. Whoever's in for an emergency procedure will give support. We've accepted an emergency procedure. We'll come forward in a second vote. Before that, I'm opening a debate. Does anyone have a need? You've seen the changes. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to this Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in a second reading, without amendments. Who's in? You can vote. We adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure by a hasty procedure as delivered by the House of Representatives. We gave up today's debate on point 13. We move on to item 14, which we have accepted, is that right, to discuss and decide on, is: Ad. 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public TV System of BiH Did we take point 14. We did. 41 The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. You've reached the bill. This is the first reading. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I really want to start by asking one basic question: What is the objective of this law? So this legislation appeared in the parliamentary procedure of the moment when the Association of the Blind came to the Council of Ministers, held appropriate talks and asked for their release from payment of the RTV subscription. And of course, right after that, this law entered the parliamentary procedure, which I don't think is sufficiently visible. Because if the aim of this law is to help those categories of faces by freeing themselves to pay 7 marks of subscription, then the goal is completely wrong. This should be achieved in a completely different way, and not in this way, and as a confirmation, it is up to the House of Representatives to upgrade the amendment to free and deaf persons from the subscription. So now that category is slowly spreading, probably through the amendment phase, some other categories of faces will come, like paraplegics, dystrophysics, possibly wartime military people, and then they'll go to one extreme. That's why I think at this point this law is not good, it's not well-sighted. First, we need to define the right goal, and the goal should be what we want with this law. If you want to be with him, I repeat again, to help certain categories of face, and that seems to me to be the intention of this, then the goal is not good. It is not fulfilled in this way, and this goal should be achieved in some other way, not as it has been tried through this law. So I think that the law is completely wrong, that it does not achieve the purpose and that what is intended to be achieved with it should be achieved in some other way, through some funds and through some other kind of help, and not in this way as defined in this legislation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3496	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3497	So, I understand the ailingness of all people who are in favour of allowing blind and weak-sighted persons not to pay for a RTV subscription. But I just want to remind you that it's hitting on the basic law that says that the TV subscription is paid for the possession of a radio-television apparatus. So, you can have in the car a machine and never turn it on, but you're required to pay for a tv subscription. 42 The other important thing to say here is that social policy, and this is one of the social measures, is in the jurisdiction of entities and they should address these issues. So I think such activities should be supported, but they are now referred to the wrong address. It's not us who have to decide, so there's no need to change the law because it's because, to change the law in accordance with this as required, it means to open a break-in for all those who, on any basis, belong to the social category should be free of them from paying for a RTV subscription. I think this should be resolved by the Management Board who gave its clear view that they were not first consulted, it was, at the very least, correct that public broadcasters consult what they think about it. Secondly, it needs to be settled in line with international standards that say that all social persons should address the social fund to address it. So, I don't think the principles of this law should be supported, because that would open the door to the fact that this should be done but that should be done by the entity ministries. That's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3498	Thank you very much. Anybody else need a word? Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3499	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I, too, need to say my thinking when it comes to the requirement to supplement and amend the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, when it comes to paying the fee, i.e. the actual database of those who own the radio and TV receiver. We still have to remember today that this real database of these users does not exist and is not up-to-date. And the request sent by the blind, there are other categories – has the basis for amending this law. I will, of course, support this request and it is possible in the amendment phase that by then other requirements appear and finally to get the right pictures of those who have a need, so pay a tv fee. There are many indiscretions and other categories that can be released for other reasons. Therefore, this attempt and demand I understood for human reasons both at the end and towards the opening of the procedure of amending this law, which is certainly not fully applicable to all categories, so for all those who really need it, they need to pay a RTV fee. There's a lot of people who pay, and they really don't have a basis for it. So I'll support this, and we'll see about the amendments for the rest of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3500	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else in need? Mr. Rančić. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3501	Thank you very much. So, I'm going to join in supporting this bill, because this group of faces should be released as well as some others, I'm not going to narrow down, some other categories, for example. I'm not talking about details. Of course, here's a colleague, either together or separately, and with colleagues from the House of Representatives, we're going to consider which other persons should eventually be released from paying for the TV subscription. Why this law? So it's not about keeping social policy, it's about the Law on the Public TV System of BiH that passed this Parliamentary Assembly being required, whether or not paying this membership fee, so it's logical that we in this House release those persons by amending the law. Thank you very much. So it would be illogical for the state level to impose a commitment, and now entity or, I don't know, some other levels lead politics in a way that will subsidise, is it, amounting to TV subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3502	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing up. Excuse me, Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3503	I only applied for it to say that we discussed this a lot and on our... committee, on board. I absolutely should appreciate all that said by my colleague Dušanka and colleague Šaraba, but also by what my colleague Rudo said and... Because here, indeed, and we've found it on the board, we've said here we're really talking about the social category, the story is really and they should be, if they're not, then there should be a story about the social category, who can do it, and who can't single out 7 marks of some kind of subscription. That's the central question. So the social category is not just a physical flaw. We have those with a physical deficiency who can pay and who drive the most expensive cars, and we have the ones without any physical deficiency who really can't pay that subscription. And that's actually a question. Look, I'm here, it's a moral dilemma, not a need anymore. If we do not really need to damage the other side, then we have not done a good job. I will support this bill only because it is in the first reading, only because it is in the first reading, because we give it a chance to really be a law that will not be our moral dilemma, but will indeed be a law that includes those categories that are exclusively social categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3504	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Ljubičić, then Professor Neimarlija, then Mrs. Čolo. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3505	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, when it comes to this category, means that we are talking about and all the other categories mentioned in part of these discussions deserve certainly proper attention and observation. So when defining any attitude or relationship and helping these categories to achieve their rights and to ease any of their problems. However, I answered for another reason. I'm going back a little bit and I'd like to remind us all of one part of our debate when we talked about the Public TV system – we had a problem with low charges which is one of the observations in the context of this debate and one problem that is highlighted. We are now going consciously to simply cancel that subscription and further reduce it, and there was an open problem. I'm afraid, someone has commented, that this is now going to be one process, a release. Now we are entering another question, another problem -- are we, in our thoughts, in our attitudes, in certain issues, still consistent. So here's what I'd like to remind ourselves of. So we'll see here what our position on this matter will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3506	Thank you very much. Professor Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3507	So I have an understanding of the argument that has been made and by which this is indeed not only formally legal, but also a formal legal and social and moral issue. And I think that we are in the debate on our Constitutional Commission – where counterpart Šaraba has just presented these reasons, which, in some ways, is a problem, which is actually a way of creating this bill and not being enough to make sure that it is really a law that will be more integrated, let's say, to tackle the problem – we have come to something worth saying by listening to these representatives. In fact, they mentioned that this original proposal includes only the blind in the House of Representatives, as we heard, whether the amendment was added and about deaf persons. And then this possibility she spoke of was mentioned, justifiably, by Mrs. Majkić, about now expanding the leprosy of the users of this right to these social categories. And I think that that's when we actually came to something that's possible a solution that will help us determine, stick to this case, which is to separate actually disabled persons that we don't have the right to commit and socially endangered categories of people for which, through some other sources, we can't free by law on behalf of the RTTV subscription service, but who need some other institutions, organizations, associations, etc. to settle here and pay a subscription for them. Here it's original, at least I understand this law so, it's a simple fact that people who are disabled who are not socially endangered but who are disabled to enjoy the program, here's to say 45 that they can't be asked objectively to pay a subscription. And if they're going to pay now, if they're going to use their right not to pay the subscription, it stays, is it, their right. On the other hand, socially endangered categories of residents who are not socially able to pay them, if so, should be provided with mechanisms and sources of income from the institution and others who will appease them. And I think there's a solution to this dilemma that Professor Zrno has justifiably expressed. So, I suggest we decide now: only categories of disabled persons would come to mind here, people who cannot be users of the service of the RTV system from socially endangered categories that need the state to help, society, etc. to pay them a subscription instead. I think it is also a solution to this formal-legal dilemma, because it really includes what my colleague Ljubičić has justifiably noticed. If we let this chain go now, it'll go a long way, on the one hand. On the other hand, this is a formal law issue, but this is the Law on the TV system... a service at the state level, and we are obliged to react with this release at this level. Whether socially endangered categories will now be freed from subscriptions, or instead of paying a subscription... someone at entity, state level, some association, I don't know, who cares, helps wartime military people, disabled or disabled others, that's the question. I express this by actually supporting the opinion that we support these principles of the law, to join our colleagues from the House of Representatives and to leave ourselves room to, perhaps, solve this way. It is my opinion that we can get rid of it, stay on the blind and the deaf, so on the disabled, and for social categories, look for a solution about who will pay the subscription on behalf of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3508	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo gave up. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3509	I would eventually join what Professor Neimarlija said in the final. I don't think the reasons for this bill are social. It pays for a RTV subscription for a service to be used. People who don't see or hear don't use a complete service or can't use it in part or in part, and probably that's the reason. True, the reasoning does not state that this is the reason, and then these conclusions are made that it can also be a social category. It's just that a service worth, I don't know, seven marks is paid. These people can't see or can't see or can't hear and probably that was the reason and it would be wrong to expand it now into some social categories. When someone doesn't see or hear, then, no matter how much money there is, in my opinion, he doesn't have to pay that TV subscription and he needs to support the law in this first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3510	Thank you very much. 46 Does anyone else want a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3511	I just, I don't know how, what I'd say to Mr. Tihić, that's how we define the basic meaning of the RTV subscription. The law states that the TV subscription is paid for possession, not for viewing. So you don't have to look at it at all but you have to pay.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3512	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3513	It's possession.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3514	But watching is also possession.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3515	So don't, so I'm not watching, I can't watch for days of television, I don't care about him as a medium, but I pay, I have to pay. So, secondly, they're families, you don't release one man. TV receiver and radio receiver are in the family. So we're releasing them from paying, so now everyone's going to use that possibility to transfer that particular person as the owner so they don't pay. And I say, at BiH level, we don't have a single cent to solve social cases, any of them. So, on what basis does this house give itself the right to say - it will be blind, weak-sighted and deaf, and the rest cannot? By whom, what is this criterion that we make when we make such a decision? That's all I ask. I wouldn't let myself, I wouldn't let myself judge who should or shouldn't, have the social institutions that need to, institutions that need to judge, not us. We're not competent to do that. So the emitters say we're not up for it. Let them address those who solve social cases, and I agree. All social categories free up and let the entity governments pay for them. Why would it do that from the public service account? I mean, I don't understand that argument. Here I think, so the easiest thing to do is to be humanly formal and say I'll release all categories, but it's up to us to analyze the conditions well before we raise and vote, so we don't do the consequences that will have much greater damage to TV than people will benefit. So, I think the easiest way to be... is to be in the mood and say, here, we're all about getting rid of you, and objectively, you know whose jurisdiction is, you know, whose responsibility is to create a social programme, maybe it's a way to get entity governments to create social programs for the most vulnerable part of the population, so, among other things, and for those who belong to the category of disabled. So, that's all I want, is for us to take a good look at this before we vote. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3516	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3517	It's getting a little awkward, but I just can't resist not reacting to such unnecessary galling and spending so much time on such small, tiny shifts that we need to make by amending this law. I agree with you, Mrs. Majkić, that the draft law supplementing the law is in constant contrast with the basic provision of the Law on TV..., however, that provision was also subject to manipulation at the time of adoption. Since she could not impose a norm to oblige the payment of tv fees is subject to the users, then it is said to be the owners. It was one manipulation and now, strictly formally looking, you're right. But you're wrong, I don't think you're right, which doesn't dispute your right to think so, when you're trying to overqualified this as a social policy act. So it's not about social policy at all. I join those views which were presented by other fellow representatives that this, above all, is a moral issue in which we are determined by the limited possibilities of using the right, the consumption of that right, which are primarily two groups of people who have certain handicaps of nature, either Bogo given, or acquired, that they can neither hear nor see. And there it stops, I'd please let me speak, I didn't interrupt you, don't interrupt me, please. Don't interrupt me. I listened to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3518	Business, don't get in the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3519	Don't get into my word, because you won't convince me that... the argument by breaking into my word can only piss me off to be an even stronger opponent. So don't do it, I'm not doing it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3520	You're a gentleman, you know how to treat ladies, I know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3521	Excuse me, Chairman. So, what I'm saying is that it's not good when you're defocusing someone, then you get him out of the beat, then he loses focus on what he's trying to say. So, it's about us as a Dom having in our hands an instrument that if the House of Representatives extended those rights to a leprechaun, which Mrs. Majkić is talking about, which some of the other colleagues were talking about, we have instruments to stop here, to say no. Now we have a disagreement of the text of this law, we have prevented that spread. It doesn't occur to me that I consider some act of broad heart and broad arms when I talk about six marks per family. It is indeed below our level as Home, as 48 MPs to discuss whether these two categories, only the two and none of the third, disabled persons will release those RTV fees which, again I say, are legally wrongly formulated in the basic law on that fee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3522	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Is there anyone else who needs it? I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate and putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading. The decision-making option is open. Here you go. With one vote "against", of course Mr. Šaraba, with 11 "for", with a sufficient entity majority, adopted this law in the first reading. Point 15. We said to postpone for the next session. Point 16 is: Ad. 16. Report on the 2007 Review of the Izvješeć on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations You got the report. I'd like the President of the Committee if he needs to.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3524	I didn't think it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3525	And I said-- if you have a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3526	I thought it was all clear, especially I think that we should address the conclusions that the Commission has made very zealously and that they would in fact represent a fundamental solution because, as you know, this audit report has also been assessed with the reserve and I propose to the House that, in order to correct the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2007, adopt the report with the conclusions set here. If I have to, I'll read it. I don't think we should all have it in front of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3527	I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the argument. No one wants a word. We will now vote first on the Report and then on the conclusions with the Report. 49 The open possibility of a statement. Here you go. We've accepted the report. I'm opening up the possibility of voting on conclusions. Here you go. The conclusions were also accepted, but with two "abstained", with 11 votes "yes". Are there any abstentions? The empty chairs were, they didn't vote. The 11 votes "yes" also accepted the conclusions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. We've got most of it. Only if you want to, we'll do it again. You don't want to do it again? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3530	Thirteen should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3531	Then something in sum is not good. Someone didn't vote, so. Someone's not voiced. It's supposed to be 13, because Mladen's gone, and Adem's gone. Something isn't. So Hilma's card wasn't drawn. So, no more voting. We have 12 votes for this conclusion. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and civil servants of BiH in foreign peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2008 to 3. Six. 2008 You've reached the report. The House of Representatives has accepted this report. 50 I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro Jović, Slobodan Šaraba, enlist, Mr. Zrna. So, here, keep the materials away from the buttons. Slobodan Šaraba, then Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I need to say a few sentences, because at this very time, the time to which this report refers, I was in the field. So I was in our unit, and so I want to make my comment on one chapter, which is the security situation in the area of operations. Otherwise, when you write reports like this, I don't think there's anyone here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Ah, you are, right, nice to meet you. So I think the essence of writing should be placed in the direction of showing the right state, really the way it is on the ground. And it seems to me that very often, when reports like this are written, the situation tends to be a little more beautiful, better and different than it really is. And in that direction, I want to make my comment and express my doubts about one sentence in this report, that's on page 19, a sentence that's in section 'Safety in the area of operations'. 'In the reporting period, selective mortar attacks and missile attacks on the EHO base were carried out and they did not endanger the security of members of the unit.' Security was in grave danger. Fortunately, it all worked out well. Seven days later there was a shelling where there were soldiers, the truth not from our unit, who were injured. So, this part where it's said that there was no threat to the safety of the unit members, in my opinion, is not standing. So, I think that in the coming times, when it comes to the security situation, it should be shown as it is, without embellishment, without bringing out certain things that can show both the picture and the picture, so it is a real state, and not trying to show some texts a state that is different and better than it really is in certain periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3535	Thank you very much. You're out of makeup. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3536	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I didn't answer to tell you a story about this report. You've all read, this is a very well detailed and comprehensive report on all peacekeeping missions from Eritrea, the Congo, and here to Iraq. With only one finding, the Gro reports refer to one part of our forces in the so-called Iraq's freedom, an action called "The Action of Multinational Forces in Iraq" and only one part of the members of our Armed Forces who at this time, during this report, were staying in Iraq, it's a demining unit. After that, we had another 51 combat troops in the green zone in Baghdad. But in the meantime, the mandate they had in Iraq and one unit and another, the mandate ceased. People came home, and now we can figure it out, thank Bog, everybody's back safe and sound. And I've been to Iraq and Baghdad twice and all these bases where they were stationed were members of our army. What Slobodan said, the living truth and things don't need to be made beautiful. Why beauticate? Well, those guys didn't go on a trip, they went into the war zone, the one where there's a war, and they know exactly where they're going, but I'm leaving the other one Bog, so we're in a position to help others instead of us using that help. I hope that time never comes back. And secondly, we're talking about a professional army today, no longer volunteering, under alleged signs, soldiers who force the party, ideologies, go somewhere to serve, this is about definition and professional relationship. That's why I'm asking you to really accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3537	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this report on the record. Open possibility. Here you go. Unanimously, without four away, 11 votes "yes". Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Peasant, Refugee, Asylum and Ethics You've reached the motion for a decision. The House of Representatives adopted a Decision appointing and naming Hidajeta Redžić from Montenegro's national minority. I'm opening the debate. Who wants a word? Excuse me, until I get used to having it here. He registered neatly first with Slobodan Šaraba, then Zoran Koprivica, then Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So today, we have a proposal for a decision to appoint a representative from the Montenegrin minority in the Council of National Minorities of BiH. I would like to start by saying that, in my opinion, the election procedure has not been carried out in accordance with the Decision establishing 52 of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, where Article 3 of this Decision says: 'The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH shall, by its decision, appoint the members of the Council on the proposal of the Human Rights Commission to consult the associations of national minorities'. There are two Crnogorac associations in BiH. One association is in Trebinj, which was registered in '95. I have years of objection to that association here in front of me. The second association is in Sarajevo, which was appointed last year, sometime in May. And I believe that, in the process of carrying out this job, the Commission should have consulted these two associations and that, on the basis of consultations with these two associations, there is a proposal that we are going to consider here today, of course through the Human Rights Commission. Since this is not respected, since the Trebinj Association has absolutely not been informed, as it states in Article 3 of this Decision, nor consulted, I believe that at this time we need to return this work to the Commission which, in its subsequent activities, should overcome the situation we now have. And the situation is that certainly the Trebinj association that has the largest number of members, it's about 3,500, is absolutely bypassed in the process of proposing candidates for this council. In this direction, Mr President, I propose that we do not make a decision today, that we return the work to the Commission which is tasked with overcoming the current situation and propose a solution that will be agreed upon after consulting and dealings with both associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3540	Thank you very much. Here, we heard Mr. Šarab. Mr. Koprivica picked up the next word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will briefly, given that I am a member of this Commission for Human Rights, take part in the debate on this issue. We know that the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities in BiH was passed in 2003, that the amendments to this law were carried out in 2005, we know that in BiH we have a total of 17 members of national minorities, we know that last year, with the help and support of certain international institutions, above all, the OSCE mission in BiH has launched an activity to implement what is foreseen by the law in practice, i.e. to form the Council of National Minorities as one advisory body at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Commission has appointed one subcommittee laying down the way and procedure for the appointment of representatives to this Council of National Minorities in front of registered associations of these national minorities in BiH. We carried out the procedure through a public call, so we took advantage of the opportunities of public calling, from television, radio, the most read newspapers in BiH, and we left a deadline within which these representatives, i.e. those associations of national minorities in BiH, had the opportunity to apply, to report their potential candidates for membership in the council. And within that period, it is known that ten representatives of national minorities have applied, the other seven have not. 53 Whether at that time they did not have registered associations or for some other reason, we as the Commission are not familiar. We simply took the view that we are not obliged to call, i.e. to search through the registration courts, which we know how many in BiH are registering these associations of citizens, or national minorities, and we did not simply know how many will appear. Where several associations, or several representatives of the same national minority, appeared, we invited them all and then we gave them the opportunity between them to agree on who their representatives were in the council. So, what the Commission formally required under the provisions of the Law to implement, we have, in principle, implemented. But here we have a specific case. Indeed, in no case has anyone objected to our action. So, today and today, a public invitation has been opened to those national minorities who have not designated their representatives in the Council of National Minorities. What exactly could we have done? Simply, at that moment, when the decision was made, which the House of Representatives had already adopted, we only had that one proposal. We did not know about the existence of the Association of Montenegrins in Trebinj and for this very reason this proposal, which was the only one and proposed to the House of Representatives, i.e. both at home for adoption. The House of Representatives has already done that. This is now ahead of us a decision we also have proposed for adoption. At the same time, however, we have this objection coming from the Trebinj Association. How do you get out of this situation? It's really debatable now. The provisions of the Law, as formally-legal, are the Commission, I can responsibly argue here – that we have respected, in terms of public appeal, that we have implemented the procedure that is envisaged. But it's really a specific case, probably out of ignorance or, I don't know, for what other reasons, this Trebinj association didn't show up. What do we do? I mean, we have two options. One possibility is to return this to the Commission again, as Mr Šaraba suggests, and perhaps at this point is the most realistic solution, given that this Association of Montenegrins from Trebinj has about 3,500 members and their descendants. I think that we would make a mistake, in every respect, if we would ignore one such objection and therefore, as a member of this committee, I suggest that we really take this objection seriously and return the issue back to the Human Rights Commission, which could take the final position on this, or propose to the homes further procedure, possibly, which could be applied. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3542	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Koprivica. Next is Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3543	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would very much agree with my distinguished colleague Koprivica and, in order to remind me, I would like to say a few sentences. 54 With a good intention and a desire to integrate representatives of national minorities living in BiH, we wanted to form a national council, in fact the Council of National Minorities in BiH. At first, it seemed to go easy, but we do have some problems, even now. In addition to the act, you have here shown that a representative of ten national minorities has appointed his representatives to the Council of National Minorities, and that seven are not yet 17 national minorities, as recognised by law. We did not have this as the only case of this, I will remind myself, I believe that as a member of the committee, they will remember that we had an almost identical situation with representatives of the national community of Albanac and Rom. And in such cases, we have shown our understanding that we need the Council of National Minorities to cooperate, not to become a problem in the social community. And we had a nice practice here, I guess we didn't use it. To us, Montenegro is a neighbouring country, it has an accredited ambassador here and we are always in contact with the representatives of the country's embassy where we have representatives and national minorities to live in BiH to find common solutions. That's how it happened in these two cases, though, with the Roma election representatives we had a very large protest of people who are in associations, it's not one but more associations in Tuzla, and by inviting their representatives here to our Human Rights Committee at that meeting we elected a representative of the Roma. I think here, from what we got from the Association of Montenegrins, registered in Trebinj, which has been functioning and registered for 13 years, there was no idea that there was such an association, and if we had been in contact with the embassy, we would know that. Now that she's registered and just registered with the Sarajevo Association, people have done the right thing and sent us a representative. Not knowing about this, just now, we know, I think it would be good for our Human Rights Committee to have representatives... of these two associations or that they meet first and initiate a meeting with the Ambassador of Montenegro and find a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3544	Thank you very much. Mr. Božo Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3545	I'm going to be very clear about this issue right now, that I support those who say this should be returned to the Committee for Co-operation. So obviously it's an incomplete job. The reasons why the job was made incomplete, at this point, are not the most important, should be returned, processed and then discussed all this. But I answered, colleagues, thank you very much, I answered for another reason. I was offered a biography or a résumé of one of the candidates who, I will skip the name for some regulatory reasons but I will read some allegations: I was born here and here, as a child from a mixed marriage, my father is a Srbin, mother of Bugarka, etc., grandfather, grandmother, this, what the gentleman said to him in '91. For years, he pleaded, felt Jugoslaven, but in Serbia, everyone who signed it then wrote as undetermined, and he pleaded as a Srbin. However, he feels Jugoslaven. I'm not sure if Jugoslaven, as a national minority, is registered in the law itself, I can't be sure of that, such as some other categories that are trying to impose today. 55 So it's a double mistake. The first mistake is that someone goes against the spirit of the law. And secondly, it's an ex-post mind, a subsequent commercial commitment. So I volunteered to point out a problem that personally frustrateds me as a human and in a political sense burdens me. In BiH, because of the lack of regulation or for some other moral reasons, there has been a terrible abuse of nationality, which is particularly present in the town of Sarajevo where, if necessary, people plead as they should each day. We have countless examples that abuse the possibility of someone pleading as a Hrvat and taking vital positions that belong to a constituent nation. So I think this should be an incentive to think that in the legal acts, perhaps even constitutional solutions that will follow, in a clear way we define how it can be declared, we can manifest our nationality. I can't... today like this, tomorrow for my pragmatic reasons. For me, it would be only relevant for the last statistical list. If I am, so each of us citizen has his own personal inventory and there writes what I am by nationality, all after what changes is pure manipulation. Since we are discussing the 2011 census, some changes and preparations in legal regulations should be made, saying to prevent this abuse. As you say, gentlemen, on the census, you will be able to reach the next census and filter into certain government systems that are... appropriate national quotas and representations, parities etc. The abuses committed, especially from the point of view of the Croatian national interests and their representation in some BiH institutions, the Federation and Canton of Sarajevo, are indeed a serious insult in the way it is placed.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3546	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3547	Chairman, all this stands for what Mr. Božo Rajić said, but I think that's the next item of the agenda. We have not yet come to terms with this proposal concerning a representative in the National Minorities Council of the Order of the Crnogorac. And you were talking about these two candidates who are for the Management Board of the Public TV Service.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3548	/no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3549	Yeah, no, then I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3550	56 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3551	Yeah, yeah, okay, sure. I would like to go before the Human Rights Commission, which has proposed that this lady from the Montenegrin people enter the Council of National Minorities to say that we have considered this on the Commission. This is the Association of Montenegrins registered at BiH level, registered at the BiH Justice Ministry. They applied, the regular procedure was carried out, is that now this is a subsequent association from Trebinj which can also legitimately delegate its representative, but one can only enter the Council of National Minorities, so here I leave to agree on how we will overcome this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3552	Here, let me be allowed to tell my judgment from here. Since I am a member of this Joint Committee, I now have one completely different knowledge than we had on the Joint Commission when the proposal of the Association of Montenegrins and citizens of Montenegrin origin was considered and a determined person accepted by the House of Representatives. So I see now that when you read and read article 3. Decisions establishing a Council of National Minorities in BiH are therefore required by this Joint Commission to consult national minority associations or other NGOs on national minorities when determining candidates. So, if there was also a proposal from the Commission of this Association of Montenegrins from Trebinj, there might be another association, so it is possible that the Joint Commission's decision would be different or two or three candidates would be proposed, and then one and the other homes could be more clearly determined on who deserves to represent this national minority. As we had one association registered there, so which is being conducted in the register of the Ministry of Justice, this second one we have in the RS, in Trebinj, I am inclined, too, because a decision on the establishment of the Council of National Minorities has been injured, I am inclined to bow down to the positions of those who think it should be returned to the Joint Commission, and they got this from Trebinj, to decide again and inform both homes. The House of Representatives will decide what it will decide, whether to revise its decision or to stay with the decision so far, and we will have a more valid, fairer proposal, consistent decisions on the establishment of the Council of National Minorities, because in an equal way in the Joint Commission we will have proposals from the Associations of Crnogorac in BiH, because nowhere is it exclusively said that this association must be registered at BiH level, and that it cannot be registered and exist as such, because there are registers of registrations of associations in accordance with the law and at lower levels. That's what I wanted. So, I clearly adhere to those who think it should be returned to the Committee, with these reasons we've heard so far. Zoran Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3553	If I may, Mr. Chairman, one more sentence. By supporting this proposal of yours, and indeed one objective situation where we and the Commission have found each other, I would like to know, for example, about these remaining six national minorities that do not still have their 57 representatives, which we will apply to this procedure. Here, we as the Commission, the public appeal procedure, as foreseen by the law, if we apply it, may happen again to the same situation, let's say, we have some of these other six national minorities. So it's really a special problem. I mean, don't realize that the Commission has missed any of these actions that were provided for by law. We just didn't know. We don't know from so many registered courts in BiH where which association is registered. So it was a public call, they didn't sign up, we didn't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3554	There is no registration in courts but in the ministries of justice or justice, and I think the Commission has made a mistake. She should have asked for a circulatory letter from all the ministries of justice, from the county or canton, from both entities and from the BiH Ministry of Justice, hence the registered association of Crnogorac, and thus done the job in accordance with the Decision. Then no one would be hurt, and we would not be discussing this today. Anybody else want some? We have a way out, if we are fully aware that there have been leaks in the procedure here, to correct the matter with this suggestion to return and the act that came before us from the Association of Montenegrins from Trebinj, with the suggestion that the Joint Commission will send a request to prevent us from missing anyone else, so that we can deliver the registered associations of Crnogorac we have in BiH, from both entities, from all cantons, from Brcko District, from the Ministry of Justice, and see if we have two, three or five associations of Crnogorac. So it's possible, it's quite possible. If you're up for such a proposal and there are no other considerations, I'd put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3555	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3556	Please, of course, until we get to the best solution, we can leave the debate open. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3557	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So it's obvious that colleagues and colleagues speak in a way that the procedure has been hurt. They didn't exactly convince me of any of their arguments. If they say it was called out, that it was transparent, available to everyone, then I don't see any mistakes in the procedure. Here, they found out, he obviously wants to change his name here. So let's just say it out loud, that's why, let's do something and change the name and then when you get a different name, then it'll be okay. Is it written there somewhere? Are you as the Commission going to advertise it again? You won't. And did you advertise for the first time? It is, isn't it? And will the procedure be good when you call a private association, whether, and take it from it, honor the proposal and deliver a new proposal. Is it a good procedure then? Of course not, don't convince us. Tell us openly we want to change our name, and then this is okay, and don't distract us because of the procedure and tell us 58 we made a mistake in the procedure. Why do you spray your own ashes? You didn't make a mistake in the procedure, you want to change your name, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3558	I, can I just use the right, because the microphone in front of me, in my subconscious, wasn't my name, in my subconscious. I've read here, in the mind of no one, so you know how mixed the structure of those who say themselves like this is very mixed. So that doesn't bother me at all, I have a biography here, we see where people were born, where they lived, father and mother, in Montenegro. Maybe Grandpa and Grandma. I guess so. So, that, don't give me that, so I'm building myself up if you point that out to me. If it hadn't been for this act, this act here speaks, and the act that we received from the escort, I have to explain it a little bit, from our Joint Commission, who called for only one association registered in the BiH Ministry of Justice, that we didn't get another act where there is another association and that in the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities, you are a lawyer and you will understand me. It does not say here that the Parliamentary Assembly, or the competent body proposed by the Parliamentary Assembly, will consult with associations of national minorities or other NGOs on national minorities. So there's been a misrepresentation. These are not advised, they are not consulted. There's a big number here, 3.5 thousand Crnogorac here. So I wouldn't attribute it to that one element that you just mentioned. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3559	Comrade Rančić, I'm replicating you, it would be good to see each other and hear from you. So you see how little time it took to show that names are the most important, not principles, not procedures. We're going back to the Ombudsman story, so you'll remember when I claimed that two parties, for their pragmatic reasons, wanted to change people, not procedures and procedures, but good. So, just to prove that it was a specific phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3560	You're out of the picture, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3561	Excuse me. Life is a cyclical phenomenon and everything spins around. I don't really have, if Mr. Rančić wanted to question in some way, whether there are gentlemen from the Serbian Club reason to change names, I have no reason to change names, but I have reason to oppose procedures, if not fully implemented, and to oppose terrible manipulation in all situations where nationality can be changed as a shirt or as a transitional deadline for football players to cross from one camp to another. So, I'm against it. Every name here means the same to me. I don't know. It doesn't matter. It's sad that we in the national minority category have to outwit ourselves because they're enough, they're threatened enough by the fact that they're so small, we're giving them crumbs... 59
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3562	Thank you very much. We heard, we still have Mr. Šarab, right, registered, Mr. Hazim Rančić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] By the time it's turned on, Mr. Šaraba got involved, he's already got the right to speak. Here you go, Mr. Šarab, then Mr. Jović, then Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3564	I want to tell my dear friend, Mr. Hazim, that he's wrong, is he? So this is absolutely not about names, so absolutely. So until 20 days ago, the Association in Trebinj thought it was the only association in BiH and people were certainly happy to find out and establish contact with this woman from Sarajevo and are glad there is another association. If this is how the choice is made, we'll just fight them. If they sit together, and they're sure to sit for the next 10 days, because people from Trebinj often come here to the embassy because of all the different jobs they have, they'll sit down and talk. So, I'm glad that in that direction this Mr. Trebinj gentleman may be here next week to talk to this lady and try, if we do this, to make a deal. So I want them to sit down and try to talk and make a deal. What happens in the end? Let their proposal be agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3565	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, Mr. Rančić. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3566	Come on, let's let the colleague go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3567	Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3568	So, really, here, even in advance, I don't mind changing my name. I don't mind it, but I'm against it and let one, two, three, five or ten Crnogorac associations, as many as there are in BiH, let them say what name it is, let them have as many as they want, I don't care, 60 and let them agree and let it come. But what I cannot accept is that our colleagues convince us that it was not a good procedure, that we should consult, or advise, there, with citizens' associations.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3569	It says here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3570	It says, it says, of course. And so far, we have appointed members of minority communities. Well, did you file a report and tell us we consulted, consulted with absolutely all the associations of that national minority? You didn't tell us that, and we know that from some, yes, there are dozens of national minorities. And you didn't tell us -- there are so many and so many, absolutely accurate numbers of these associations in BiH, and we've consulted them all, and that's the proposal of all these, you're not. I don't need it, and change it, but don't pour your ashes and say it -- it's not a good procedure, let's get this back. We're complex to get this back, is it, to give the possibility of this other association being consulted on this issue as well? Here, we're complicated. I'll vote for it, but don't just convince us of what's not essential, and in that case, dear colleague, you were wrong. The procedure was fine. Thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3571	And that's what you'll do after the session in dialogue form in the hallway. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3572	: I believe that I tried, at least on my part, to explain a little of this, obviously, or we haven't heard enough, so I would just have one small part in order to resolve it again. kolega. Rančić, meaning that in the ninth month of 2007, the Commission is making a decision and calling for association to apply for formation for the Council of National Minorities. Until today, that call is no longer renewed. And if the procedure is at stake, this is, thank Bog, we expect the Committee to fill in as soon as possible, because we still have six representatives of the national minorities missing. Then we could start working. I believe there have been a lot of private initiatives here, organize, save yours, etc. But we also had two problems, it was an Albanian national minority and Rom. We may have had a conversation with the 10th and regional part of the Roma. We suddenly had six-seven representatives, president of Roma Tuzla's association. Well, some are called cantonal, some are the cities of Tuzle, neither do I, Kalesija, etc. So, we in the Committee have a standing invitation to form a Council of National Minorities. And that's why I said it was very important that we have this contact. I guess the Embassy of Montenegro in BiH, the Republic of Turkey, Ukraine, Slovakia, all who are 61 more unfulfilled, should contact them for the best solution. So we found a wonderful solution for the Albanac. We had three associations, each proposed their own. We asked them to meet, to meet and choose before us. That's what happened to the Rom. It was here, one day of demonstration, there were 50 of them. But we just sat down with people, we need one, we don't need 50, and you guys go ahead and make a deal, we respect your will, and they made a deal. Let's do it now. And that's why I said that a call was issued 20 days ago, a deadline, within that time limit that this lady applied, etc., that would be fine. But I think I had an intention and a wish, and now I have this, to work with the people of Crnogorac here, and also the Republic of Montenegro through the Embassy and representatives of national minorities for the greater good, not to have a fight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3573	Thank you very much. Does anyone have a concrete proposal to get out of this crisis that we've set ourselves in? [[Common discussion]] Nothing, I mean, it's very close to me, too. Here is the imperative standard that they are obliged to consult their associations. They have not come to the knowledge that there are more associations and there is a valid reason to return it to the Commission for re-determination. And this question that you have asked should be asked by the chairman, your MP, Sadik, and I will ask it for you, if it is not convenient for you. I'll ask him why we didn't have all the associations on the table. So, I'm putting on, it looks like he's matured the proposal and we can decide that with this explanation, let's get out of the stenogram all that's relevant, let all the associations that exist in BiH be collected, and let that be co-ordinated, and let, in accordance with the Decisions establishing the Council of National Minorities, act in accordance with Article 3. Decisions. It is quite clear here: if it cannot be agreed on, then it can also propose self-initiative to Parliament and Parliament can vote on the candidate. I'm putting on a plea and I'm opening up the possibility of a statement on this proposal that we seem to have agreed to. Here you go. Without a single vote "against" and with one "abstained" voice, 12 "for" and one "abstained". We'll send this to the Joint Committee. That's how we exhausted this agenda point. We're moving to point 19. We've exhausted point 18. Point 19 is: 62 Ad. 19. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board (Rang-list of BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3576	It is not disputed, I thought that someone who was a little more involved in this procedure or perhaps the reasons for such a statement of the House of Representatives might come forward, and the House of Representatives has accepted the obvious proposal... Regulatory agencies, and yet I wanted to ask the question only because those who have carried out this election have actually proposed this five candidate ranking, which they have applied for, selected two and made the order they accepted and the House of Representatives, has not clarified, offered no reason or explanation for this decision, given something that has been said by Honorable counterpart Rajić. Namely, I respect the reasons he presented. This is where a member of the Management Board from the RS is elected from the ranks of others. Now, respecting this dimension of national determination, representation, depending on the needs etc., here, therefore, if the neglected dimension, which obviously shouldn't have affected, because it is evident that both candidates who are left are actually national, which is not from any of the constituent peoples in BiH, is more than obvious here, so I say, a big difference in competences between one candidate and another. This candidate Vuković, who is in second place, he, in fact Branimir Grulović, a man with two colleges, a television man with experience in the media, I'm doing only one of my impressions, Vuković Mirko, let's just say that he chooses the editorials of a literary journal, he would, of course, have an advantage or a literary association, but for the media, so here I am in some way expressing my only question, what has been defined, if someone can help me to support the proposal and the Regulatory Agency and our House of Representatives in order for me to accept their proposal. I thought someone would offer me reasons why they opted for a less competent man compared to an incomparably competent person for a board member. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3577	Mrs. Čolo. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3578	I, the chairman, would like to intervene again on the agenda. There's a mistake here that stands at the point of '19. The appointments of a member of the Management Board of the Public TV System', and needs a tv service, because we choose a member of the Public TV Service from the line others. According to the Law on Public TV Service, one candidate from the ranks of others comes from the RS. We have discussed this proposal from the Regulatory Agency for Communications at the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The procedure was carried out in accordance with the law, but we decided to deliver this report to the House, that the House would declare which of these two candidates would choose from the order of the others to the Management Board of the Public TV Service and I would state my position. I think this first candidate is really less competent, but here I hear he's passed through the House of Representatives and it's about a person who's had no contact with the television and the work he's going to do if she's elected to the board of directors. It's about a writer, and I don't like his diploma, where the average is 7. I don't usually vote for people like that. I think there are a lot more competent people and it's a very important function to perform, so here I am going to be held back when voting on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3579	Thank you very much. I've read correctly that it's a BHT service, not a system. Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3580	I don't know, I don't want to go into controversy with what Professor Neimarlija said to Mrs. Čolo, but if I understand correctly, and my colleague Rančić confirmed it to me, the law doesn't know the categories of Yugoslavia, right? If so, then the other candidate, Mr. Grulović, cannot be considered at all, because he pleaded as a Srbin, is not a member of the national minorities. Jugoslaven as a minority does not exist. Now, let me get this straight. What's this all about? There should be a candidate here, I don't insist, I don't care, either this one, nor anyone's expertise will save RTV BiH from being much better than it is today, unless the issue of legal regulation and financing of relations in it is resolved. Therefore, that member of the Management Board will not change the order of the others. But I don't get it now. Could Jugoslaven be elected when there is no category in the law, or, if not, Jugoslaven, could Mr. Grulović be a candidate if he pleaded as a Srbin. I don't care, I have no reason to fight for any name.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3581	Mr. Jović. Thank you, Mr. Rajić. 64 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3582	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're a little tired, I'd say that's all – let's make a statement about the opinion of our committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3583	Is there any other need? I'm closing the debate. And now I'm gonna be tough on the decision, no more subsequent reports. We've closed the debate. So, be good, it's hard now all together, I asked if anyone had a need. We have a proposal, it's identical to what the House of Representatives accepted. I ask you to make a statement on the proposal submitted by the relevant committee. I'm opening up the possibility of a plea. Okay? Now! I agree that we supported the candidate as well as the House of Representatives, Mr. Mirko Vuković. Thank you very much. Moving to point 20. Ad. 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Transport between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine I'm opening up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3586	Please, I have an intervention. You got the procedure wrong a little while ago, can I say? 65
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3587	Of course, everyone's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3588	You said to make a statement on the Commission's report. I'm a signer of the report. We haven't favored any candidates. We have provided you with a list of candidates and
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3589	I mentioned the Commission and I mentioned the House of Representatives. There's no confusion. In accordance with the act... the name chosen in the House of Representatives. So that's what you heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3590	Then we voted differently, because I voted for my choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3591	If you want it to be a mistake, we'll repeat the vote, and I'll rephrase it without this commission, so as it came. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3592	Then can we do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3593	You're asking us to repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3594	Well, yeah, because I voted...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3595	We will repeat, please, we will repeat the vote regarding the appointment of a member of the Management Board. We won't wait now. We'll join the vote. So my proposal was, we all said once, that it would be... candidate Mirko Vuković, is this what it's called, as a candidate elected to the House of Representatives. You have the opportunity to vote. Here, you can vote. Well, we won't be done till Christmas. The vote is open. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3596	Please let me say it. Since the Commission's Report - we are obliged to vote on the Commission's Report - and the Commission's report does not say anything, it does not say who it is. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3597	The candidate's name was delivered from the House of Representatives. I made that clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3598	No, no, obviously you don't understand. We, as the House, are obliged to read this report to the Commission. In this report, the Commission does not write anything. So, then he's yours after that. So, we need to get to the Commission's report first, and then your proposal goes after that; so I think we're talking about the procedure. So we vote first on this Commission minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3599	And for the second time, by voting, we confirmed the same candidate as the House of Representatives, and for me, it was a final vote regarding the candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3600	I haven't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3601	Shall we vote on yours?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3602	I don't need it, as far as I'm concerned. It's important to me that Dom plead that he really chooses that candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3603	We got that candidate. In addition to the 27th, all international legal acts, concluded at 31st, are declared and agreed or not given for ratification. Open option, except for point 27. Here you go. We agreed on all these acts, so from points 20 to 31, without point 27. We're going to point 27, that's "Ad." 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the grant of the Global Environment Fund between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the implementation of the Global Environment Fund – the Neretva and Trebišnica Management Project You've received a report from the competent committee. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. 67 Behold, I open the debate, and the first to say is Mr. Šaraba. ___________?) Alma's before.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3606	I am the chairman of the Commission, so I am obliged to explain. We have on the Commission, meaning by majority vote, established the House's proposal to give consent to the ratification of this agreement. It is an agreement the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides $6m for the Neretva and Trebišnica Management Project. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba pointed out that the agreement states that the river basin of Neretva and Trebišnice was treated as one plum, and in fact it was two separate plums and during... the establishment of this proposal for the House was made one conclusion to ask the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, because the agreement was already signed by Minister Dragan Vrankić to request further clarification. So, if it's in the original version of the Agreement, we thought it was an error in the translation of the Agreement itself, whether the original version of the Agreement contained two river basins, the Neretva plum and the Trebišice Trebišnjica. In the materials for today's session, you received an additional statement from the finance minister, and here it really says that it is a single plan, a single basin of Neretva and Trebišnice. However, to conclude this agreement, according to their statement, it agreed with the RS government, its conclusion of 10. 4. In 2008. She accepted information on negotiations for the Neretva and trebišnjica management project and authorised the competent minister to sign the contract documentation. The minister responsible was the minister of agriculture, water and forestry in RS, Radivoje Bratić. Minister Dragan Vrankić signed the agreement. I would like to point out once again that it's a six-million dollar grenade and that here's the problem that Mr. Šaraba will again potentiate this treatment of the Neretva and Trebišnice plums as one plum, not as two separate plums.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3607	We heard the word of the relevant committee. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3608	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 68 So, it's true what Honorable colleague Čolo said that in the last session... I gave my consent, but deeply believing that it was a wrong translation. So I thought it was a translation and that this agreement treats the plums, not the plums of Neretva and Trebišnica. The story of this project began in 2004 and in the basic document, when the discussion on this topic began, it was about managing the plums of Neretva and Trebišnjica. The difference arose the moment the Federation-RS dispute arose, as the Federation law resolved this issue in a unique manner. So, the Federation of Waters says 'Neretva and Trebišnice', and in the Law on the Waters of the Republic of Slovenia 'Neretva and Trebišnice', which is absolutely correct, since it is a completely two separate plums, which are artificially connected in the 1980s by the construction of the Hydroelectric Chapljina. So what these two plums connects, which is the Hydropower Plant Capljina, since they came to Neretva through that hydroelectric water plant. And it's not right to treat it like a plum. And it's not true, and it's completely wrong that every effort that these two plums want to treat and connect to one plum, especially from the aspect of governance that will appear tomorrow. So trebišnjica and the people on this spill will not be able to manage their plums, manage the waters of their plums, but will be managed by those waters from another center. And that's why I think, deeply aware... that today I can't change anything in this agreement, which was signed last year, but I think this should stop by the next session. And try to see if anything can be fixed. Because this way we will violate the Law on the Waters of the Republic of Slovenia and transfer jurisdiction to BiH level. I am fully aware and responsible for what I say is true. Because in this way it is possible to transfer the management of the Trebišnice stream to the level of Neretva. I really don't mind. There is an Agency for Water Management of the Adriatic Basin, but it is an agency that should manage the Neretva Basin and it is quite normal, and other waterways. There is a Water Act in the RS and there is a law provided for by the management agency, and I will read the exact name, so the Water Agency for the district area of the Trebišnice River Basin. This is provided for by the Law on the Waters of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, that law defines the management of the Trebišnjica Basin. So, I have a proposal to postpone the plea for further consultations which, in any case, I need to have a conversation in order to really do what I said once again. And that's that we're going to lose that management system we have at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3609	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Šarabo. Ivo Miro Jović, then Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3610	I will, Mr. President, be very brief. Since 2005, the NGO has raised these issues and in order to apply at all to the means of this type it must be regional integration. By a little better reading of the contract signed, you will see here that the government and interests of the Republic of Croatia and Herzegovina are also mentioned in one part. And that's why there's the Trebišnica River. It could've been in the title, if it'd wanted to, just 69 potential spills of Neretva, then you'd have avoided the idea of trebišnjica. When you look at some members, then there are members of this contract, then you say, 'If the Federation or the RS do not meet the obligation', etc. I find it extremely important here that this is a good quality program, for the greater good and for the good. And let's not forget to apply this contract, when the money comes to us, let's not let it be manipulation and wrong spending. I would appeal to it and in any case, if we couldn't, we wouldn't be able to... or change the score, not that we couldn't, and so on. So, it would just have just already finished money, done a huge job,...was I at first with those people who did it, now that we've already got the funds, let's get them, let's get them in the best, best-quality way, for the greater good, and implement them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3611	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3612	So, I think it's an agreement on, as it says here, donations, or donations from the Global Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. He explicitly says here, when he turns to this other side, he talks about the description of the project and explains the part relating to BiH, and then the second part -- the part relating to the Federation, and the third part -- the part relating to RS. I mean, the question is, which Mr. Šaraba asks, maybe he should have referred to the man who encourages, who is the minister in charge of this area, and who supported it and who comes from the same neighborhood, he knows these things very well about which Mr. Šaraba is. So, I ask you that – members of the Presidency participated – on all sides, so we are talking about money that will be used to manage and control water pollution, please, I don't think we're wasting time, let's put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3613	Thank you very much. I also concluded that Šaraba begs us not to take what others give us. So, I don't know why, but I don't close the debate, I let others say what they're thinking. Anybody else want a word? We concluded, you asked for a word. Here you go, Šarab. It doesn't say anything on the display, but even though it doesn't say you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3614	So, Mr. Chairman, this project is not a questionable three items. The second paragraph relating to improvement is not disputed, the means to be used for environmental needs is not a disputed third paragraph, not to read them, but is a controversial first paragraph. Through this item. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3615	Read what's controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3616	I'm talking about the explanation that came from the Ministry. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3617	It's about the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3618	the means to be used to create a uniform management of this plum.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3619	Where does that say?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3620	It says, ma'am, in this thing that we got from the Ministry, as an additional explanation. So through these 2.65 million marks will provide a unique management of this, with these two different plums. That's the problem. The problem is that 2.65 million marks will allow these two plums to be managed uniquely, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3621	Is there anyone else in need? I ask you to be clear about granting consent to ratify this international legal act. The possibility of a vote has been opened. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3622	Chairman, I have suggested that the plea be postponed until the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3623	If there is no agreement, it is my first duty to put an act and consent to ratification. We'll do it again. Obviously something didn't work. The vote is open. You're welcome to vote. Two votes are "against", 11 "for" – the agreement was agreed on for ratification. We're going to the 32nd item we put on the agenda, that's 71 Ad. Thirty-two. Mrs Dušanka Majkić's conclusion ...we're tired, I'll read it again. Yeah, we're just pleading, we're not having a discussion about him. So, we will now vote on the conclusion, which reads: - The House of Nations asks the Ministry of Communications and Transport to deliver within 15 days to the House of Peoples full information on criteria, procedures and how to distribute CEMT permits for 2009 to domestic carriers. The information should include both the number and the reason for the complaint of the carrier as well as the ongoing appeal procedures. Is that it? You heard the proposal for a conclusion. There's an open vote, please. I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a conclusion. In this way, we've exhausted today's agenda and I'm concluding the first session, I'm concluding the session, and now you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3625	Since we have made a decision at the Committee on Administrative Affairs that future meetings of the House of Peoples are held at the Chamber of the IV. floor, I expect, I don't know what it's called, 'Blue Hall', I expect information if we're going to have another session already up there.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3626	I hope we schedule our next session at the Blue Hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-01-29-0.u3627	Thank you. The sitting is over at 17.50 p.m.
