ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31458	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 68th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My fellow Members and fellow Members, in addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting – the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations monitoring the work of our House, representatives of certain NGOs, groups of citizens and students. I welcome all present MPs and guests to the media. According to service information, there are 34 MPs present. Mr. Rifat Dolić justifies his absence. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. _________(?) 35. 35. Thank you. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, as part of previous issues, I would like to meet the House that from the Central Election Commission of BiH we received a decision on the termination of Parliament's mandate to Sadik Ahmetović. We also received the Decision on the granting of the mandate to the next qualified candidate, which is Mrs Lejla Klokić. This decision has become a forceful one. Mrs. Klokić signed a statement on the acceptance of the mandate on 30.12.2009. Therefore, a new MP should make a solemn statement to take over parliamentary rights and obligations and I call on Mrs Lejla Klokić to make a solemn statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31461	I declare,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31462	I declare, 2
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31463	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31464	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31465	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31466	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31467	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31468	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31469	protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31470	protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. APPLAUSE
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31471	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the amendments to the agenda for the 68th session, I would like to introduce you to the fact that we have classified item 2 - Commission report on the effort to reach agreement. I find the agenda of the 68th session has been proposed and I am opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Dear Messenger Mirjana Malić. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31472	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I must, on behalf of the SDP Club of BiH, express my regret that our renewed amendments are not subject to debate today. It's about, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31473	Mrs. Malić, we're discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31474	Just about the agenda. As part of the agenda item that we accept under number one, which is the Budget Law proposal, I must say that a group of MPs who have renewed on behalf of clubs or on their own behalf, or who should have renewed the amendments that were discussed 48 hours ago on the Finance and Budget Commission, and we have not attended the decision-making and voting of the Commission, because we have been asked to leave the crowd. Waiting yesterday for the Commission's official report, not to read from the press about how the Commission voted, we were in a position not to renew our amendments until 12:00 when there was no official report from the Commission. So it is clear to me that Article 18, Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure provides that amendments can be submitted no later than 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31475	Mrs. Malić, please, I don't want to interrupt you, when we determine the agenda and open that point, I understand that what you need to say, that you can say at that point, and then we'll discuss it. Now we're only discussing the agenda, in terms of whether this proposed agenda is here today or whether it needs to be expanded or reduced. That's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31476	I totally accept that, but now that I'm only staying on one more sentence, don't let me extend the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31477	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31478	and you can write this entire discussion in a discussion about the very point of the agenda. So it is quite clear to us that, two hours late in the renewal of the amendments, we have violated the Rules of Procedure, but I want, for all of us, and that this no longer happens again, to ask that such spot obligations from the Rules of Procedure apply to our respective committees. Because if the Commission had delivered up to 10.00 official views, especially to those MPs who were unable to wait for the vote and the Commission's statement 4 which was carried out only after the debate was concluded on all points of the agenda, this certainly would not have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31479	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31480	So I have to answer, however, it turns out here that the Malten Commission said I couldn't attend. All were able to attend, the Commission worked, set the pace of work, listened to all the amendments. The finance ministry has declared all the amendments where everyone was present. We, of course, took a break then, after the break everyone could... some waited, some didn't. I think that's it, 'cause that's how it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31481	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. No more reports. I agree at the 68th session of the House the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010 – Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-4-120/09 of 21.12.2009 (second reading); 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Martin Raguž from the 67th session of the House, which reads: "In the context of the previously adopted conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the provision of favourable credit funds abroad to finance refugee returns of 400 million KM, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to provide a concrete step within six months, i.e. significant financial resources for the return through the debt, and to be reported regularly (and at least every three months) by the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." 5 Point One, Ad. 1. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations 2010 – Proposer: BiH Presidency The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 67th session held on 16.12. The College of the House shall be in accordance with Article 128. 2. Home Rules of Procedure, denied deadlines. The Finance and Budget Commission submitted a Report on Bill Proposal 29.12.2009 with 16 amendments that become an integral part of the Law. In the plenary phase of the amendment: Momčilo Novaković, Mirko Okolić, Savo Erić, Sefer Halilović. Momčilo 3, Mirko Okolić 2, Savo Erić and Sefer Halilović 1 amendment. I would also like to point out that we have received amendments from the MPs of Remzija Kadrić, the amendment of the SDP MPs' Club, which we have now discussed, which, in the College's view, and the Extended College agreed with this, untimely submitted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, or, yes... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31483	I wanted a replica. I, too, wanted to make an amendment within the legal time limit, so within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure, but you said you didn't accept even those who had already renewed it. I don't know how we're gonna work past the Rules of Procedure. This was a replica, I don't know what I did up there, you replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31484	I don't know what this is about. It's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31485	So you said that you in the College agreed not to accept some already renewed amendments, and I just want to renew the amendment within the time limit prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31486	I think it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31487	I don't know what to do. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31488	I think the president of your club was at an extended college yesterday, that the deal...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31489	Yes, the president of the club was in the Expansive College, but I have the right to renew the amendment by my Rules of Procedure within 48 hours. That deadline's still running.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31490	I think it's a business matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31491	You can, of course, deny it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31492	I'm not denying anyone anything or the College wants to deny anyone anything. It's known when the deadlines, the amendments, are 24 hours before the plenary session begins. I read the amendments that came in time. I realized that some of the amendments had come after that time, and we had discussed in the College that we would not consider these amendments. I don't see any business opportunities to make amendments to the delivery session itself. That may have been in the last Rules of Procedure, according to this Rules of Procedure, that's not possible. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31493	Thank you. I'll do it for a while. As you said, the Commission adopted the draft budget in the first reading with three conclusions. These conclusions are part of the second reading, not to read them, you said, so number one is to honour the recommendations of auditors for 14 institutions who had had a bad audit report a few years back, to reduce the budget by 10%, the cost of representation, fuel and oil costs, the purchase of vehicles and the use of vehicles. That's what the Commission adopted. That's at 14 institutions, it's 14 amendments and all those assets have been transferred to capital investments. So, where there's 10 million to purchase, the cost of renting buildings and buildings is reduced. I think it's in line with this conclusion of ours 2. It was, as you said, the 57th Amendment, that 16 amendments were adopted. You know that the budget framework was moving... so much, of course, everyone was cut mostly by their demands. What could have gone through at this point has passed on to the Commission. The Commission worked openly, all could propose 7 amendments. I am pleased that the Commission unanimously, in the end, has unanimously adopted proposals for conclusions with these amendments. I am no more than calling on this Parliament to adopt today this Budget Proposal and the PSBiH People's House today so that the House of Nations today adopts it and that for the first time in this year we get the Budget, that's the most important, and the rest of all... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31494	I thank the honourable MP for mentioning that the House of Nations is planning a budget session today, if this house passes. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31495	The Finance and Budget Commission submitted its report on the Bill on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments under the regular number 01-02-4-120/09 on 29.12.2009. Under the same regular number, Momčilo Novaković renewed his amendments. So, when the Commission submitted its report, 29/12, it was around 1200, 12:30, 1300 hours, it submitted its report. After that, we could deliver our own, renew our amendments that we think we should renew. Niko, everyone broke some deadlines, everyone broke that 24-hour deadline before this plenary session was held and, of course, we renewed our amendments and we broke our deadlines from article 118. Some MPs have renewed their amendments on 28.12. This report says they delivered their amendments, but there's no number of protocols at all, it just says 28.12.2009, etc. I think he should have said more, for the sake of order, but all of these amendments should have, in a way, been classified to discuss, these people who delivered, because it was impossible, physically it was impossible to meet this deadline because the Commission had delivered its report on 29.12 at the time when it had delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31496	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31497	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to make sure that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the SDP has not broken any deadlines. The deadlines were breached by a competent commission with its report, in co-ordination with the College. In fact, we could have been able to, if you wanted to correct this illogicality, we could have held first this next session we were planning, leave this budget in two hours, and then everything would be just fine. There wouldn't be any problem. In fact, we couldn't even deliver 8 of our amendments, not to read to you the Rules of Procedure, you know it very well, Mr. Chairman and the entire College, Article 117 and Article 118. Article 118, paragraph 1, which states very clearly that amendments may be submitted if amendments submitted by the Commission are contested. We simply didn't have a commission report in time and then it's fortunate that in the end, however, using the report from “Freedom”, we made a renewal of the amendments, so at least before the Commission and delivered it, but unfortunately, it's still too late to be 24 hours after what you scheduled. We're going to be against this budget, like the SDP Club, because we thought... we let the first reading pass just so that we could, as everyone assured us, let the first reading pass, so that fine, we can talk seriously through the amendments at this stage. We have a lot of amendments that I wouldn't say much about, they're less famous, but there are two, or three amendments that we think are entirely, in themselves, enough that this budget isn't adopted, or that we try to adopt it by respecting this, even if we don't do it today, it wouldn't be the first time that Budget was adopted beyond New Year's. In fact, even today we could see in the press that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, visited the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. We know that over the past few months, a large debate has been held throughout BiH, within the international community and domestic institutions, on the role and position of foreign prosecutors and judges. We know how it ended. It ended as it ended, but those who sought, and these were obviously more numerous and politically powerful, to get foreign prosecutors and judges out of the BiH Court of Justice. We expected them to at least create additional space in this Budget Proposal to practically replace that gap with domestic judges and prosecutors. And in that light, I expected even the amendment of the president of the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Council of Ministers by emergency procedure today to request that the budget for the Court and the Prosecutor's Office be increased, given that he was there yesterday and that he gave them full support. We just have a few amendments that I find very important and we will be against the Budget in the hope that we will bring it down in order to get a better budget and that tomorrow, even if this part concerning the Court of Justice and the Prosecutors of BiH, we will help them through the budget, we will see that we are not against the Court and the Prosecutors of BiH, but if some were against foreign prosecutors and judges that at least they are not against the Court of Justice of BiH. This was a good opportunity, and there's space in this budget, and it's not a big asset. These are no political means from which it can be seen that they do not exist. This is about relatively small amounts of funds compared to the total amount of the budget, and we believe that today should reach a conclusion that these amendments are being put into practice today. If you are not prepared to bring it, we just want to find out, regretfully, that this whole story of the independence of the judiciary and the stronger judiciary in BiH has proved to be a farce among those who have advocated that foreign prosecutors and judges do not leave. I once again appeal to all of you to at least find ways to send a message to the citizens of this country that, regardless of how we disagreed on the role and position of foreign prosecutors and judges, we agree that everyone should strengthen the rule of law through the strengthening of the BiH judiciary institutions, primarily the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, and this can only be shown by a concrete move such as the 2010 Budget. Otherwise, legitimate doubts are left about what is going to be done with this and whether the judiciary is actually trying to put itself under political control. 9 In this light, I am taking the opportunity, since this is the last session and we will not meet this year, to congratulate you all together on a happy new year 2011. Sadik-
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31498	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31499	Yes, Mr. Bahtić, in 2011, it wasn't me, I know what I'm congratulating, and you probably, when you think about it, you'd figure out what I congratulated you in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31500	Thank you. netačan quote, the second vice-president, Mr. Berza Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31501	Mr Lagumdžija, I do not know if you were at that session, and I fully understand what you were talking about when it came to the sincere and correct relationship and the definition of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, we discussed the situation at that session and asked whether the current Budget projection provided us with the means for cases if the foreign judges and prosecutors were going to leave, and here, from the mouth of the resolute Minister Vrankić, it was said that in the current projection that we had absolutely provided the funds and for the variant of the BiH Court and Prosecutors' Office with the required number of judges and prosecutors. And that defined us and somehow convinced us that there was no need for intervention in that direction. I don't know, I have no intention, not because of the controversy, but just to give you information, because I don't know if you were at this session at the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31502	Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, we'll figure this out. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31504	Mr. Belkić, I don't doubt your... first of all, what's behind this pay phone is said, at least you know very well that it hasn't become a guarantee in a long time. Let's take a few facts, first of all, of correcting the wrong assumption. It is true that that is what Minister Vrankić said, but he is 10 finance ministers and he is not the minister of justice. He's a competent minister to say how much money he has, and he's not the justice and justice minister, unless something happened that I don't know. Unless there's some other relation to the court and the judiciary. Unless it is precisely this amount of funds to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, in fact, an indication that Mr. Vrankić is the minister responsible for them. However, look at the budget table and you will see that compared to last year, you know better than I do because you were more involved, that foreign judges and prosecutors were paid, not from the budget of BiH, but that they were paid from international funds, i.e., the appropriate funds that went through the OHR, or the EU, and from the donor countries that helped us reform the judiciary, even those that are not EU countries, you can see that the BiH Court of Justice and Prosecutors, as well as the BiH Prosecutors, have no increase in the items that say they intend to receive judges and prosecutors and equip judges and prosecutors in the way they were equipped with those who left. So, I agree with you that this has been said, however, I was invited by the fact that what is said just doesn't mean anything, I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31505	Here's the minister of justice...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31506	Well, here, I don't know, here's what they say, I wouldn't want... I'll take the stand, I'll put the score, I can do three points, please, Minister of Justice, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31507	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31508	Thank you. I'd like to...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31509	I've seen, just a little bit, Minister, please, I've seen that the Assistant Minister of Finance has also asked for a word, but, excuse me, Deputy, I apologize. I hope you've agreed on who will clarify this question, so we can move on to further work. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31510	Since I'm in a certain way from an esteemed representative and called, I'll answer. I'd like, you know, Mr. Lagumdžija, if the Justice Department had a little more power, but unfortunately, those are the laws. We should all take care of that too, hopefully in the 11th century, that's the way it's gonna be. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is the one which includes most of it, along with the Ministry of Finance. Of course we're including ourselves as much as we can and we've turned on as much this time and what I know is that, in fact, the increased budget of both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Justice of BiH by about 16% globally, and the salaries and fees, therefore, for possible engagement and new ones... about 22 to 23%. As far as the BiH Prosecutor's Office is concerned, it is true that there is very little increase, around 3%, but for salaries and fees 10%. But this is for the simple reason that for the first nine months of this year, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, of the 100% planned funds, spent some 58% of the funds. So, in fact, all that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office were looking for, they got, which means, practically, if all the judges and prosecutors were replaced, there would be no problem with the budget for next year. And, here, that's the only truth, of course, that a representative of the Ministry of Finance, or a deputy, can confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31511	I thank Minister Čolak. Is there a need for a deputy? Here you go. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Kasumović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31512	Honorable chairman, distinguished MPs, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, as far as the prosecution and the judiciary are concerned, I want to say this. Everything the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office sought in their application for the budget, they received. The budget envisions that the BiH Court can employ a new 33 people, the BiH Prosecutor's Office a new 24 people. The salary increase in the BiH Court itself is 1,700,000, and the increase in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, I'm only talking about wages, is 635,000. So, all that the BiH Court has asked for, and in the way that all the foreign judges and prosecutors leave, all the funds provided for are both the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office themselves, because they themselves asked for it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31513	Thank you. Is he all right? Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31514	So I think 2010 will show if it was okay. While I was already able to write amendments to Budget based on a newspaper report, then unfortunately, this thing I'm talking about now, I'm also talking about on news reports, because we could see, the paper is full of reports and the appeal of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, by the president and chief prosecutor of BiH who are actually saying the opposite of what we heard here. Time will show what happened. I can only tell you that, when it comes to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, salaries and compensation, and two items, that we are not insinuating the concepts, salaries and compensations that are less reflective of the number of people, in the BiH Prosecutor's Office 12 for 2009 amounted to a total of 7.1 million, budgeted and 7.3 million in 2010. I'm talking about those two items. I'm talking about the BiH Prosecutor's Office now. So, what's more, if you start from the assumption, and in the BiH Court, it's increased by some 20%, a pay and compensation item. If you take into account that foreign judges remain in the War Crimes Department, and that the foreign prosecutors in both departments are practically eliminated, the question arises, perhaps not the court's capacitation to the extent to which the prosecution is involved, but the prosecution is an increased amount. These two items, I repeat, from 7.1 to 7.3 million marks. So the incomplete amount of, as far as I can figure out, about 6 percent. By more than 6 per cent, wages and compensation have been increased in this House, and we do not intend to receive new parliamentarians. So it's clear as a day that in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, simple mathematics has come to this. In the Court of BiH, I repeat, it is not as dramatic a situation as it is in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, (but, judging by the good, people claim that it is not true, well, I think, as far as I am concerned), and I have ended up, and we have, by the way, finished with the budget, just taking one item to draw attention to it, given that the whole series of amendments simply threw us out of the game with procedural tricks, but okay, what is there? You obviously have a majority for this budget, and maybe that's why I'm more, whatever you say, I won't answer again and none of us will answer. You obviously have a majority for this budget and then we end the trouble for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31515	I thank you, too. Dear Ambassador Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31516	I must say, we listen to this political demagogue of fellow Lagumdžija year after year. Never does a man appear on the Commission. Take these amendments from the computer taken back two years, always the same amendment. You know, it's all a demagogy and a story for some cheap political points. I don't mind and you're right. You say you're reading from Liberation, you've thrown it out of your computer. And I understand that yours... come to the Commission, come here and invest. We were all here for the BiH Prosecutor's Office, for the BiH Court. I thank the Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister of Finance for explaining, which really increased those items. And I understand why my colleague Lagumdžija is fighting this hard for the prosecution and the judges. A major investigation is being conducted in the BiH Prosecutor's Office against Lagumdžija, who took part in an affair to recalibrate prominent Sarajevo businessmen.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31517	Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31518	And that's why he's so courting, that's the only reason, Lagumdžija, but... 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31519	Let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31520	Now, that's true, that's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31521	Mr. Bahtić, there's this item on the agenda, but for the second session. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31522	Mr. Chairman. Here, Mr. Bahtić said in part, I don't think it's correct of Mr. Lagumdžija that in this way he's destroying the dignity of this parliament and you see where we are now. Mr Lagumdžija avoided that, for who knows which time, to come to the Commission's meeting on budget and finance, he created problems for his club because, as a member of the Commission, he would have had all the information that he was on the Commission, people wouldn't be tortured and put themselves in this awkward situation, so that he didn't make amendments in time and then today that in this way, here, I don't mind that he uses his parliamentary right, but that hollow and demagogue policy gives results, here, you see that we're not talking about power. If this is the only thing the opposition has to offer on the Budget, if this is the only thing the main opposition party has to say about the Budget and that, under the alleged signs, the government has to break it with these arguments, so unseriously allowing itself to be covered by arguments, it is a sign of the incomparability and indifference of the opposition, and this is the country's problem, not to comment on the government. If this is an alternative, it's hard to get to this country. So, the only point, the only thing, is that my party's court, and all of the opposition's stories have come down to the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and it turns out that it's hollow, that the arguments have been brought down, that's our big problem that we have to worry about. If the government has no alternative, it's not good for power either, if this is all that Mr. Lagumdžija has done for us today. I don't think it's correct, aside from the views, but the lack of a session of the Commission, year after year, shows some people's privileged position here. I think it's correct, Mr. Lagumdžija, to resign, here's what I say most well-meaningly. I know you have an obligation, you're these days, I see, in some other business that I appreciate, but you have people at the club who can, and who are doing the job correctly, come to the session of the Commission and you wouldn't have, if anything, those technical problems. It's not right for all these other people who are using their rights. But don't come to the Commission's session, and now you're telling us that you've been given the information by reading the papers, and you've been able to cross 200 meters and to hear it on the Commission, we wouldn't have this situation where people are being argued with you right now, and maybe I wasn't happy to hear some things, too, but that's true, if we're going to talk today, we're talking about Budget and we're talking about arguments. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31523	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. Dear Messenger, Mirjana Malić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31524	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. I'm really sorry, you know it's not my manners to replicate, especially on non-stop statements, I'm sorry about the dictionary. It is a guilty quote by Mr Drago Kalabić, it is not true that the only idea SDP had in terms of improving the budget is related to the prosecution and the judiciary. I'm not going to replicate, because I'm not Mr. Lagumdžija's lawyer, for the insinuations we've heard on that matter, but I will, and I think that's why I apologize to you, that now, because of the false allegations, I say what the content of these amendments is, and I promise I'll only spend a minute. 22 amendments submitted by the SDP. The first nine relate to the reduction of the items referred to in the budget and relate to gross salaries and fees, employee costs, travel expenses, current maintenance expenditure, contracted and other specific services relating to state institutions. Then a reduction in the item for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and for the BiH presidency. Furthermore, the reduction of funds for the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Agency for Foreign Investment Promotion, given its impact. So we reduced the funds by 90 million and 90 million, so that we would not break the framework of the Budget, redistribute into the next 13 amendments and ask to increase the funds for the institutions that are to strengthen this country and to introduce it faster into Euro-Atlantic integration, which is: the Directorate for European Integration, the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments, the archive of BiH, the Return Fund, the Ombudsman Institution, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And finally, we gave ourselves freedom, because there are opportunities, regardless of the legal standards for this, that within the existing ministries and existing activities, the Fund for the Financing of Gifted Students and Students, aid for the most vulnerable pensioners, financing and stimulating the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises and finally the Reconstruction Fund, in small amounts, for the only Olympic stadium in the country, and this is the Kosevo Stadium and state aid for the construction of highways. So much, Mr. Kalabić, about the lack of SDP and their intervention on Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31525	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Selim Bešlagić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31526	So I'm replicating my colleague Kalabić for one simple reason that I'm interested in whether Mr. Špirić from the SNSD? Yesterday, he made a statement that he would provide funds for the prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice of another 10 million marks, nothing more. So, we have no idea, here, Mr. Špirić said it, we accept it, welcome it, just, you can't see from what means. There's the point of the problem, there's talk, there's another thing to do, and we're in the BiH Parliament playing dolls that only 15 will make a decision without any amendments to make things better in relations, if they can, if they can't do anything to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31527	Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, another replica, we lead the one as a continuation of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31528	Yeah. So, very briefly, I must admit that I am touched by the degree of agreement, the co-operation of the SNSD gentlemen and the Party for BiH through their speakers, Mr Kalabić and Bahtić. I'm honored that this is happening here, and I'm really glad that they're willing to work this open and co-operate, not just in the sense that so far it's been practice, in many cases. I was not on the Commission for the reasons that were known,...if you were reading the newspaper and I hope you have a unique position there, since I was at the official invitation of the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mr Ahmed Davutogl in Ankara, and by the circumstances, somehow I thought that I would learn more from him what could be done in the region and for the sake of this country, but from this two who honor me here. If these two gentlemen saw an alternative in the SDP and called on people to commit themselves to them as they are together, or for the SDP, I would ask that I be given a recording of this, I would like to use this in the pre-election video, as the Bahtić and Kalabić people inform if, if they are not willing to vote for the SDP, then they are the two alternatives and it is indeed a great encouragement for me. I have to admit, I wasn't hoping for such strong support for those two SDPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31529	Thank you. We have an increased replica list again, and it's obvious that we're going to end up with these dots of the agenda, too, but good. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31530	It is evident, and in some ways these are MPs from the ruling parties, primarily the MPs of the Party for BiH and the SNSD, and unconsciously today showed that the SDP amendments are essential amendments. A total of 22 amendments and all are aimed at strengthening BiH's rule of law and development. And that is why so much resistance to these SDP amendments is evident. What is it disputed that the MPs' club has suggested that we increase the funds for the BiH Court of Justice by one million, to increase the funding for the BiH Prosecutor's Office of One Million KM, to help build a 35 million-mark Corridor Vc highway, or to set up a fund for the scholarship of talented students and students? And all of this in these amendments is 16 and how and how, therefore, we don't see where the problem is with these SDP amendments and why they try so hard to deny themselves. However, what made me above what I now stand up to say is this final, Mr. Chairman, inappropriate statement by the BiH Party's MP, Mr. Bahtić. In fact, this is a classic example of how a representative in the legislative authority is giving himself the luxury of him becoming both a prosecutor and a judge and a judge. It is absolutely against both the BiH Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights and the Code of Conduct of MPs in this House. If a man had said, there might be some doubt, etc. He hasn't said it yet, he's making direct accusations. So, according to Bahtić, it is evident that neither the court nor the prosecution are required here, he, as the only convicted MP in this parliament, can also accuse and condemn. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, to ask you on behalf of the Club for a break, to read the Code of Conduct of MPs. Whether or not the MP, a representative of the legislative body can also accuse and condemn. If that's the case with this legislative authority, then we can disband the judiciary and the prosecution in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31531	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31532	I thank you, Chairman. We are now discussing amendments to the SDP Club that are not subject to debate. Please focus on what is the subject of the debate. We have here four amendments that have been renewed, amendments that are the subject of the debate, Erićev, Novakovićev, Sefer Halilović and Momčilo Novaković. And then let's discuss my amendments that weren't accepted because of the late deadline. And as for this, therefore, the MP has the right to speak his mind in the way he should speak his mind. And certainly that the honourable MP Lagumdžija would be better, of course, better able to handle himself as a foreign minister than as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, and in that part, he found himself such a schedule.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31533	Thank you. The College accepts the MP's objection and this business intervention. I ask all those who have applied for the replica to bear in mind that we are discussing amendments to the Budget, that it is not the subject of debate or party, or individual, but amendments and the Budget Proposal and that, on that basis, their discussions are also directed. However, the second vice-president, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is another replica. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31534	I do apologize to my colleagues from the College, however, it is a lie. Mr. Denise Bećirović, I'm replicating you. So, you claimed that the Party for BiH is against the SDP amendment, that is, the procedure. So we're here to say that the SDP didn't submit amendments in time. So we haven't been able to discuss your amendments. Also, Mr. Bećirović, for procedural reasons and our amendments are not here today. Does that ring a bell? So, do you want me to talk about the BiH Party's amendments now? Well, they're not procedural, they didn't follow procedure, Mr. Lagumdžija. We respect the Rules of Procedure, we don't rape this Parliament. So, in rare moments when you're here, you create an atmosphere to have fun with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31535	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31536	Well, in rare moments. And we'll tell the voters, Mr. Lagumdžija, not to waste votes for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31537	Thank you. Ten minutes of breaks, after which we continue the debate. [[PAUZA]] Please, colleagues and fellow MPs, just to count for quorum. We've got quorum, we're going with further discussion. Replica, please give up if Mr. Bahtić gives up, Mr. Mirko Okolić is not here right now, Mr. Drago Kalabić, and you're giving up, are you or are you giving up or? You're giving up. Dear Ambassador Momčilo Novaković had a discussion before you, Mr. Erić. Here you go, big Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31539	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the College, colleagues and colleagues. You see, I wanted to say a few things. First of all, I think we've made one mistake today. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure are inconclusive. Article 111 The Rules of Procedure said everything just didn't say how late it was to begin the session until the amendments were delivered to the MPs. So, because of these deadlines, we practically obliged people to submit amendments before they received a report that their amendments were not accepted and that others were accepted. On the one hand, it is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the other hand, the indiscriminateness of the Rules of Procedure. It may have been wise for us to make it possible, precisely because of this time-scrapple and 18 of this uncertainty, that everyone would say what they thought about their amendments, because, in principle, most of them had already said what... and brought out these amendments, perhaps even more than they would have said if they had had the chance to defend them here in Parliament. But, well, the College and the extended composition, and this college were different opinions, and I think for these reasons we got this debate completely unnecessary for about an hour. No, I don't understand why the position is nervous today, since they have agreed and agreed to adopt the Budget and I don't see the reasons for that anxiety. After all, the story is that the opposition's views are demagogy, beware, the opposition has the right to demagogy as well. The citizens will check it out in the next election. I think that, as much as the opposition in this House has tried to sow demagogy, it cannot sow as much demagogy as the position has spilled in this House. So I really don't see any serious reasons for being nervous in a position, especially not for what's been going on in the past few minutes or an hour. And now to move on specifically to the amendments I've made. I've invested, practically, three amendments. With one, I tried to explain the dispensary side, on the other side of the income, on the other, on the other side of the income, keeping in mind that I really don't spread a lot of stories and that I don't mind a lot of positions in her agreement. But what I couldn't help writing, first of all because it was the conclusion of the House of Representatives, secondly because I was the applicant of the initiative that was here and why Dom had reached conclusions and thirdly because the two ministries, of the ten ministries, supported it in their reports, which is the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. And it is about court disputes of workers who have been out of work in Croatia since '91. '95. A year. You see, we have reached a conclusion in this House that certain funds will be allocated in Budget for this year to finance court disputes before courts in Croatia. So it's precisely the means of purpose that are very easy to justify and control, through court fees it's, therefore, very clear to use. It's a $200,000 figure, because there are so many prepared lawsuits that stand in two associations, one in Banja Luka, the other in Tešnja. And that's exactly the amount of fees for these court disputes that need to be started, for which these people don't have easy money. The very fact that they've lost their jobs and not working is probably enough to talk about their difficult position. Not getting into some other problems, aspects of this issue, etc., but only one aspect, which is the conduct of the necessary procedures, in order for people to exercise their rights which can only be achieved before courts and nowhere else. That is why I am really surprised by the argument of the Deputy Minister, on the Commission, that only amendments based on a law or a decision can be accepted, unless, of course, the Deputy Minister considers it a significant conclusion of the House of Representatives. And if he thinks he's significant, then he would accept that amendment, both him and only the Ministry. I repeat, especially since in their report on this issue, the two ministries made it clear that there is this problem and that it needs to be addressed right in front of the courts. Why? I may have taken too much time to say about this amendment, but I just have to say because it's so little money compared to this billion, these 200,000, that it's really not clear to me, especially that it doesn't touch any concept agreed by the majority, that I really don't understand why the Ministry was against the amendments and why my colleagues in the Commission so warmly supported the Ministry even though they voted for this conclusion. As for some deadlines over these amendments, I have to say that, as the Ministry worked, what kind of relationship had to do with the amendments, so if you will and almost all of our 19 Commissions, we were able to write these as well as those under Article 118, because it was evident that none of them would be accepted. I could do 27, I didn't have to wait 29, write these other amendments immediately, because it was evident that they wouldn't be accepted, at least when they took those views and the way the deputy minister there explained his disagreement, or the ministry's disagreement with these amendments. Here's the second amendment, which talks about the census, I don't want to explain it because it's been said a lot about it and about this activity here and a lot of it in the last few budgets and, of course, it's been the same as it's been in the last few budgets. What is certain is the consequence of our relationship with this issue is the further more complicated situation, and as we could read these days, the activities on, it seems, the adoption of individual laws, or at least as far as RS is concerned, the adoption of the Census Act, which will likely further complicate relations within BiH, and that list will not fully meet the effects, i.e. it will not have the effects it would have. But it is now, I repeat, the result of a lack of will, and I think that, if for one project, then it is easy for this project to find enough will for it to get support here in parliament, i.e. first to come to Parliament, then to get support in Parliament and to meet that one of the conditions that has been put forward for us as a condition for the EU's accession. I thank you for your patience. I would ask my colleagues to pay particular attention to this amendment once more. I've now spoken to representatives of both associations, and there's nothing more I can do than convey their re-demand to find a way. I think it's very simple to find on that income side of this 200 grand, I don't think that's some kind of problem. The Ministry can do so very easily if there is a will in the Ministry itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31540	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, honourable Ambassador Savo Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll try to be more operational, since this media show has already finished and propaganda, what anyone had to say, has ended and we're back on the agenda and we're discussing the agenda. What I'd like to say is that the Commission has been serious, no matter what I was the only one against, if my colleague Zlatko was with me, we could probably do more on the previous commissions and on this one, most likely to do something. Secondly, it is very important that the secretary immediately informed the phone of all those who submitted the amendments, what was going on with their amendments. Later we had the opportunity to see it online, so we had the opportunity to react in another way, which I support again, as well as this that we needed to find ways to allow everyone to submit amendments, but most likely they are also aware, as I am, that this story is mostly over. And what makes me happy is that it will be done by New Year's Eve, you know I tried to impose this issue in June of the month and get closer to the budget more seriously. 20 What I resent in the budget is that the budget is too small, so proof that we have not properly allocated budgets before, and we have not now had the opportunity to be slightly tied to those who invest in funds, i.e. those who pay VAT. What I think is, well, that for the first time the reserve was objective, so there wasn't too much falsification, so let's leave a large reserve, and then we put all the amendments in reserve, we accept that everyone's satisfied, etc. So that's one good trait that must be well fixed this year. And what makes me happy that gentlemen aren't ready to go into big rebalancing because most likely there's going to be a crisis, the question is how this budget will be implemented, so it's a good message for everyone, so there won't be any rebalances, and that's probably why there's no room for amendments and amendment action. One part of the amendment was adopted, out of 42 adopted by some sixteen, so that's good. What is not, in principle, the opposition has lost its amendment, perhaps more due to multiparty lines than reality, but the fact that there have been good amendments. And the SDP had good amendments. And I will return only to my amendment, so I don't explain it, because last time I explained it, so, two amendments, one list and this amendment I suggested is about refugees. And what I've insisted on and my eyes stinged, so that lease, in principle, is already presented, that leases are signed, that he's a fixed item and that even the Ministry of Finance has to do with it... and even we MPs have to agree that this lease is real and that it can't be reduced. And I'm appealing to you, this surplus that you're looking for for for the Department of Refugees, I'm looking from that lease item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31542	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31543	I thank you, Chairman. I want to correct the wrong quote here, and appreciate that much is said here. I have not so far replicated about the amendments which... one of the MPs who has tabled the amendment is me, and here it has been said that MPs have been notified by the secretary of the status of their amendment. I am clearly here to say that no one has invited me to the commission, that it is necessary that as an MP I explain or do not explain my amendment, nor has he informed me of the Commission's position, the decision it has made, nor have I had the opportunity to know when the Commission's session was concluded, that I could possibly renew my amendment. To remind you, I have tabled an amendment to the demining process, it takes six million marks to secure itself from the budget of the BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31544	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sefer Halilović, discussion. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31545	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs. I hope that this amendment of mine is a technical question, because I hope that the Commission rejected it only because I was not present, and I was not really informed that I should be present, and when I found out about it, then I asked my colleague Huskić to explain the amendment to the Commission instead. Just to remind you briefly that this house has adopted a conclusion, it concluded that it has formed an investigative commission to determine the spending of donor funds in which it said, quote, that financial support for the Commission's work will be provided in the budget of the BiH institutions. The House of Representatives, i.e. at the 56th session, adopted the Interim Commission Report with a proposal for a project, with the conclusion that funding for the project... from the 2009 budget reserve. We held a session ten days ago and the unanimous conclusion of the Commission was to make an amendment to this Parliament and to ensure the funds of 41,291,76 KM. We do not care whether it will be from current expenditure, from the budget reserve, but what is a unanimous request from the Commission is that this amendment be adopted and that the funds for the Commission's work be provided, so that it can work uninterruptedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31546	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jerko Lijanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31547	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I don't have any amendments to this budget because I don't think amendments can be done with what should be done. I will only remind a few examples from some EU countries, which our research sector has provided, how money is managed and how it is managed. So one example of Germany, which in 2008 and 2009, supported its economic sector, in fact its economy, so I will present some of the figures that they allocated to support the economy and banks, assistance to banks, December 2008. - 8 billion euros. Bank assistance, May 2009 - 10 billion euros. Aid for the rescue of firms in difficulty through banks, 8 months 2008. – 5 billion euros and a loan guarantee for banks from 1.10 to 1.4.2009. - 26.5 billion euros. Direct aid to the economy, 2nd month 2009. – 6 billion euros, a scheme of subsidized guarantees for investment loans to boost the economy, 8 months – 500 million, a soft line credit scheme with reduced interest, companies that invest in the production of products that are not harmful to the environment. A scheme to help farmers up to 15,000 euros, direct grants from interest rates, subsidised loans, subsidized guarantees -- 100 billion euros. And this does not include the EU budget incentivising 43% of which is set aside for incentives in the economy or somewhere around 100 billion marks. And in our budget, we have not treated this topic at all, and on the other hand we have signed agreements with the EU on stabilisation and accession, we have agreed to lift customs duties and expose the economy of both countries in a single competition. And on the one hand, we have a political leadership that takes care of its economy, helps 22 to keep jobs in that competition, and we have political leadership on the other hand, which, through the Budget, we see that it takes care of the economy. That is why I would suggest, if there is a mood, that something be done about preserving jobs next year, because we have already lost 70,000 in the past, and in the next, we will surely be so, if not more, that this budget is withdrawn and that, in fact, something similar to what countries within the EU are doing, we will start to take over Europe's standards slowly and make a budget for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31548	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31549	So everything the predecessors said should be supported and I think we should add a lot more, so we have one perspective year ahead of us. Where, though, did it come from? I don't usually tell jokes here, but I'll tell one now. Explains a neighbor to a neighbor how to make the perfect mixture of land for flowers. And she tells her, you need to take half a hummus and half a sandbox and half a black and a half, I don't know, shake. So he says, stop, that's four half. Well, take a bigger pot, never mind. Well, our pot is as big as it is, we can't increase the pot. It should help agriculture, road construction, and return, and demining, and help people that this global crisis has led to the situation that has led them, but where? So, we have a bad year behind us and an even worse one, an economic downturn that will deepen, a fall in economic activity, a diminished one called budget filling. This budget has no particular decline, in one bad time, in one bad projection, this isn't a bad budget. So we have a consensus on it of three members of the BiH presidency, one of the members of the presidency is from the strongest opposition party. They supported this budget. So it's a solid compromise given, first of all, the economic situation and our relations here, the consolidation of relations. The SDA will support Budget as it is, that is, what the Finance and Budget Commission has proposed, in this context and without the support of the amendments, which we would very much like to support to be realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31550	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jerko Lijanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31551	So I would just remind, if it decides to withdraw the budget and some resources to provide for three of the most important issues in this country, it is the economy, economy and economy, that it is not a problem of funds, the luxury tax in BiH is the smallest in relation to the region or the EU countries, so that there are several billion available if we have the strength to tax luxury in this 23 year. And I think it is inappropriate for a poor country like BiH to have such a small luxury tax and a very large tax on life and work in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31552	Thank you. mehmede, is that it? Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31553	Thank you, Chairman. I will be very brief on behalf of the Party for BiH Parliament Club. Since my colleague Jerko was talking about the economy, I will not talk about the economy, but I would like to remind you that in the last debate in the first reading on Budget, the club, in the first reading, proposed even an immediate debate and adoption by an urgent procedure, is aware of the arguments heard here in the hall from all those who disputed the draft budget, which, as counterpart Izetbegović mentioned, came to us from an authorised promoter, with the signing of the distinguished BiH presidency, Mr Željko Komšić. Therefore, the Party for BiH will support the proposal of an authorised proposing with adopted corrections by the Commission for Finance and Budget, without dispute, indeed, specific weight and some arguments heard here and amendments that are in the procedure and those not in the procedure. We are all very well aware that this is the budget financed by BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH. Unfortunately, we do not have the ingenuity as one Germany has, which Mr Lijanović spoke of, but which does not mean, of course, unless we make appropriate changes in that direction in the next period, and Budget BiH is not in that direction and directed. So, the Party for BiH MPs' club will support Budget the way the Commission supported it, with corrections, i.e. the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31554	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31555	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I have renewed the amendments for the reason that, esteeming what I think about them, I have heard from other colleagues that these are topics that were mostly discussed in the budget. I've heard a lot of remarks here, even a discussion at a pay phone, that really the amount of the rental room is extremely large and that many years earlier we've suggested that something should be done to reduce the lease, i.e. so that the funds would not be thrown down the water. On the basis of the lease, we could do something else, such as a loan lift and a loan to buy our own premises, etc. Furthermore, what has prompted me to renew the amendments is that it is inadmissible and strange that the amount of funds provided for in this 2010 budget is inadmissible. The 24-year lease is higher than the lease in 2009. In the year of recession, when prices drop everything that exists on this world market, and the prices of leases fall and cannot possibly be justified that the lease must have a higher rate in the following year than in this year, and I would like someone to prove it to me that it is. Next, we see the execution of the budget for 2009, for the first 6 months, that it is 26,844,000 planned funds 12,524,000 (?Which means it's below 50% and it didn't take half the funding that was planned. But here's what I'm going to say is that it's some kind of indicative planning and it could have been tolerated, but still, it's a million and something reduced. Now we have an increase of over a million marks and I really can't understand the reason, and someone fat should try to convince me and give me good arguments that we should have planned over a million more marks for next year that were wasted. Furthermore, the next amendment refers to the funds to be provided as technical preparation for the 2011 census. We have also said a lot, and I cannot accept that we are not planning any of the funds for the next year on this issue, and that is why I have renewed that amendment and I hope that you will have an understanding of these amendments and that until the vote you will consider it, because it seems to me to be an interest that matches all the speakers in the last session, and now I don't see any reason not to do so. And when it comes to the lease cut, it was also an observation that it didn't tell exactly who to cut, and I invested the amendment to reduce the total lease on a percentage, or if the Ministry could agree otherwise with the users of the lease, but what is there now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31556	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31557	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SNSD has repeatedly said what it had to say about the Budget, and we have also shown through these procedures a serious relationship with this issue, and I think it is good that others have accepted it and that today we have the situation that we have. With all due respect to all the remarks, the SNSD will vote for such a proposal for a budget that reflects one real state, as it is and with all these dilemmas, and it is logical that all have different views and needs on the budget, but that in the end the collection of all these demands is as it is, limited to real positions and the Council of Ministers of BiH and budgetary users. What I have to regret is that we failed, although we had an attempt at the Finance and Budget Commission, us several MPs, it wasn't just the idea of the SNSD, it was also Mr Huskić, it seems to me and some others, and we haven't been able to fight it. There was a quick formation of an invisible block against us that managed to do it on the quick hand of divorce, but here we have this story about the lease. We've suffered defeat here, and I have to say it, because our proposals to increase capital investment allocations, to solve the issue of leases, have come across a 25-year-old wall that we're just going to analyze how it was formed, because it's unimaginable that with 24 million we have an increase to 28 million rents, which is what our colleagues were talking about. And it's just the rise this year when prices and rents of space fall, when prices and construction facilities fall. But here, I think that there will also be the next conclusions proposed by the SNSD, that we review those of our conclusions that we have voted in this House, on the Commission's proposal, because we have failed to implement them through this budget, but we will see, if we get the data and information we need, what can we do in the next period. But surely that is unsustainable at times of recession and crisis and that this item is in the smallest case(?) foggy. I said that we would support this budget proposal with, normally, the desire that, if there is an opportunity, some real demands will be respected another time, probably not possible at this time. I didn't answer for a line, but here's Mr. Lagumdžija. Given that he was not in last session and that counterpart Denis Bećirović invited all MPs to return diplomatic passports, I assume Mr Lagumdžija did not return because he was not there. Well, I think he's got a chance to come back now, because it's not right for his colleague to call us, and he's not getting off the plane. I mean, here's a chance for you today to return your diplomatic passport, at the invitation of your colleague. Did this in the SDP, with Mr Komšić, I thank him, supported this proposal of the budget that was here, and at the invitation of Mr Lagumdžija to participate in his election campaign, I am ready, but I ask him that this DVD that is circulating Sarajevo on SDP's honesty in Sarajevo, that we give up and we will exchange these tapes, and we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31558	Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31559	Well, before I move on to the budget, I'd be up to Mr. Kalabić's story. Here, I brought my passport back, just tell me who. Here it is. I'm willing to go back. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I have no idea. I don't remember. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31561	Wait a minute, please. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31562	I can also shut up for two or three minutes, because it won't take me 10 minutes. We tried to follow the Continuity and Desires of this Parliament at the Club, I apologize, I'm caught a cold so I'm having a hard time talking about the frequent adoption of the conclusions that we need to put the institutions in our own space. We have not submitted amendments because we have heard that many will submit amendments and how, in practice, there is a consensus in this Parliament to make it right. In fact, out of the 24 million 2009 leases, it grew to 28. I personally expected it to fall to 20, and that 8 million will be invested in capital investments, so we will not single out for capital investment 10, but for example. 18. On the other hand, Mr. Raguž suggested a conclusion that would be the subject of the next item of the agenda, so he went in that direction, and it was also mentioned several times here and adopted by this home, that we should provide money and funds for return. The third thing, the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee, he was thrilled with two wins, in one sport, by the BiH team. We need to know that we have a lot of sports and that if Bog does, he will win, so I have made an amendment to increase the funding for sports with a million and 300 to at least two, so we don't have to ask for sports funds over the year. That the resolution minister is available, so that with the 700,000 marks I suggested in the increase, he can intervene for top results. However, it is also the president of the commission, who advocated some 100,000 after two wins in qualifications, God Bog they were in some big competition, and without a medal he would have suggested at least two million. But we have to think ahead, we can't remember in the eighth month that we need the funds for something. We need to know how we're going to act on the conclusion that we adopted both last and last year, and, behold, Mr. Raguž is proposing today whether we're going back to BiH or not? Are we going to help top-notch sports or not, are we going to put our institutions in our own rooms or not? The finance committee and the budget said no, we're not going to do all this. We are in position, and I agree with the BiH Presidency, with the BiH Council of Ministers that they do not want amendments, but we are in a position not to want amendments, we do not want parliamentary amendments. Anyone else can remember and please him. So the central bank can say, we'll only single out so much, no one can say, you'll single out a million more or a million less, but they'll tell us how much revenue we'll have on that side. And you still don't know how much money it is, but someone cemented that item. I speak in principle because this in this home, I say this multiple times, here, eight times, the budget is adopted, that is, the tenth time in my presence and with my hand. And we will support this budget, but it is not good that these three items that I have mentioned – return, accommodation of institutions and top-notch sports, are encouraged by the thinking of the chairman of the commission who has been acting here in a warm way to allocate these funds to the football team, and we had no where, there was no budget of funds, and none of it can go through. I appeal to all of us that, what my colleague Okolić said, and I'm surprised that the opposition did not better attack the cost of paying 28 million marks. We'll build the Corridor Vc highway faster than we'll set up the institutions, and that's a much cheaper job. I don't know what the problem is. Is it really so powerful that this rental lobby that it doesn't allow us to adopt it in the Budget, to try 30 million this year, in the next 30, so we can set up these institutions, to pay ourselves and pay off credit rates, but to give money to another. Many, not many, all here agree that it's good. And in order for everyone to be so bossy if it were personal and if they had to pay long-term rent for the apartment, they would buy, they would take in 27 commercial banks credit and pay themselves that rent, paying credit rates, and after 10 years the apartment would be theirs, and not giving that rent there to someone and after 10 years it's someone else's apartment and other people's space again. So, I underline once again, to try, at least I am informed of this one thing when it comes to institution accommodation, that this year it will be partially resolved, so I appeal to the Council of Ministers of BiH not to miss another chance. And I also appeal to this home that the second point of today's agenda is to accept, therefore, that we here achieve agreement, when the College has already failed to do so, and that we are going towards the return of refugees and to find a financial interest in all this, because the most interest is the interests of our citizens, especially those who have been killed in this war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31563	Thank you. Discussion, honourable Ambassador Husein Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31564	I thank you, Chairman. I have prepared an initiative for the next session, on the agenda – under parliamentary questions, initiative. However, I appreciate that it is more appropriate, within this point of the budget agenda, to propose one conclusion and in this sense I would suggest it, given that there were certain initiatives under the BiH Council of Ministers and that they were not respected. The conclusion is that the BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with also providing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with information on the lease of all the premises financed by the Budget Institutions of BiH. And the deadline for the delivery of that information should be 30 days. For reasons, there is much said here, only in the term of office of our MPs, about 100 million marks will be leased. I don't think we can wait for the end of the term that we don't have information about what transparency is in this process, that all institutions use, how much space is rented and everything else. And in that sense, I would suggest this conclusion and ask the MPs to accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31565	Thank you. The next is the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31566	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs. 28 I would like to say that for the first time, at least in this House's assembly, it seems to me that parliamentary democracy and that the BiH Parliament itself has made a major step, that for the first time the Fiscal Council Act has been respected, that for the first time the Budget of the BiH Presidency has been returned and the BiH Presidency has been forced to create a framework for the Budget that is appropriate to this country, at the recommendation of the Fiscal Council, and that for the first time, parliamentarians have had the opportunity to discuss amendments within that budget. And we made them honor our discussion here about the audit reports, to subtract 10% of the funds from those institutions that had had a negative audit report, and to say for the first time that the budget reserve or current reserve could not be greater, nor could its projection be greater than the indicative budget, if it decreased. I think we've done great things. At the same time, we were unable to honor all that could be respected. And it could still be highly respected, and I call on the MPs that, given that we have completed the amendment phase in the Commission, and that we have made a great degree of consensus on this, that the amendments that, for whatever reason we cannot accept here, Mr. Sefer's amendment, which this Parliament has accepted, the House of Peoples has refused to go into the procedure, and we know that after this home, Budget and the House of People have to confirm, that you try to transform it into a conclusion about the pomegranate, we have the resources in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and these funds, if not the House of People, the House of Representatives will use these funds, if necessary from the work of the clubs of this House, to honor your conclusion which is our conclusion. I'm inviting you to try a break to formulate that kind of conclusion. I think many in the BiH Parliament will support the conclusion. At the same time, Mr. Novaković is right, many, and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice supported your conclusion. I'd like you to make a conclusion in the meantime, because your amendment doesn't say which items to remove from. You also know what the ministry's position is, but this parliament can also direct the Council of Ministers of BiH's current reserve spending in that direction. Please conclude, I believe you will have great support in this House to adopt that conclusion. At the same time, the SNSD Club, on the trail of what Mr. Nanić was saying, made three conclusions, but on the same topic. A lot of people here mentioned the rent problem. I'll remind you that for three years in a row, we've been making conclusions about the Budget. And that is why I consider it appropriate, when the Council of Ministers of BiH has not done so, that this parliament says, under: 1. The PSBiH House of Representatives annuls its conclusions from the 7th session, 22nd session and 41st session. First, let's undo those unrespectable conclusions of ours. I'm the one who listed all the conclusions in those sessions. Another conclusion would be – The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with delivering to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly within a month an updated and detailed list of BiH institutions currently renting premises, including the levels of these leases, as well as the content of the same contract; b) it is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver a plan for resolving BiH institutions for 2010. Third conclusion – The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of reporting three months to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on, under: 29 (a) the updated lists of BiH institutions using space under lease; (b) the amount of monthly lease fees for each institution individually; (c) the realisation and planned acquisition of land, construction facilities, business premises and other adequate facilities, as well as the construction of a space for the installation of BiH institutions. I think this conclusion includes what Mr. Nanić was saying, but it simply extends it and obliges this Parliament to continuously task the Council of Ministers to monitor this situation. I think we did a good job getting some money for institutions that had a negative audit report and giving capital investment, giving the BiH Council of Ministers an additional opportunity to realise this conclusion. This is something I invite all MPs to do. If there are no reports, I'd like to ask and ask, we'll give 15 minutes to formulate the conclusions and then we'll go to the vote afterwards. Of course, it's not a closed debate yet. Dear Ambassador Mirko Okolić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31567	It may not be a classic replica, but it may be used by me once, and in order to make a better conclusion, that is, a proposal. If you are willing to revise, or add the conclusion that I do not submit the proposal for a conclusion. This is about the next one. I would only ask the BiH Council of Ministers and the lease agreements, there must be contracts in which it will be contained until the lease is concluded with the tenant and the contracts that have been put out of force on the basis of these contracts. I don't think I should explain why. To connect them and see if there are, I've heard that there are overlaps, that new contracts have been made, even though they are existing, I've heard, I want to check that, even though the existing contracts are in force. And it's probably because of the price difference. And that's why we have a million and some increase in funding for next year, but now in this year. If you're ready for that conclusion, to add that, then I'm not going to put forward a proposal for a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31568	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't mean to answer today at all for the discussion, but in the context of this story, these leases, I want for the public, for all of us to tell the following. I had an amendment asking for 30 million marks for the purchase of new premises and buildings in the country and abroad, as a member of the Commission, and I think that this is entirely justified and the argument has already been made by colleagues in previous discussions, however, there was no possibility of that. But I will also remind my colleagues and the public that yet the item for this purpose, which was originally 10 million, was increased to 11.130,000 and, behold, I feel, in a way, the satisfaction of that one million and 130 thousand marks. 30 Also, I want to say that I have prepared a parliamentary question that referred to all of this, that I have spoken to Mr. Šega, the chief auditor, asking about how these contracts are even concluded, whether the Public Procurement Act applies, he said that this is not the subject of the Public Procurement Act. So that's where some free contracts are made, deals, here's where Minister Kasumović said there are very illogical things. So I fully support all those initiatives, and I will not even ask my parliamentary question because it was scheduled for the next session, and we already have conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31570	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31571	I will support every conclusion, both Mr. Nanić and yours, Mr. Chairman, but it goes to the mill of that lobby we mentioned earlier. They want to talk about it as long as possible. The BiH Council of Ministers should not be given 30 days, but three days. One day we'll give them a conclusion and they'll be gone for three days. One day they shall inform the institution, the next day they shall bring the institutions to them and the third day that they may pass on to us. What 30 days, that's all over, I guess, especially if they're said to be old contracts, long ago concluded, what 30 days? Do we want to finish the job or do we want to tell the story until the election campaign and then forget about it, so when the next meeting is remembered in half the term, like us, we talk about the rents. So we go hand in hand to those who do wrong and against this country. So, I agree with the conclusions, I'll always raise my hand, but why give them so much space? Three days is quite enough and I agree with what Mr. Živković and Nanić have suggested, but in my debate, I said, we support the conclusion and then we work against those conclusions. It comes to the commission of Mr. Huskić's amendment to fix it with 30 million, the Commission rejects it, although it knows that a body larger than that commission has reached the conclusion that the institution's accommodation is being resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31572	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31573	Dear chairman, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I've come to support the proposal of these conclusions of yours and Mr. Nanić's conclusions are here somewhere, only yours are wider. But, really, what we're doing, I have to ask a question. We've been running around the rent all day. The official messenger, when we discussed it, is the only one making a profit out of all institutions, 7-7.5 million a year paying the rent. I'm not calling here so I can say hello, folks, what are we doing? What are we doing? They pay. No one can convince me, someone here mentioned it, and I agree that these tenants' lobbys don't make extra profits for just making those contracts. I just can't figure it out. 31 The second thing, I am supporting the budget, if we make sure that from the day after tomorrow the thousand EU products are a customs rate of zero (0). Are we going to make this happen that we predicted? So what do we do when this isn't what we predicted, and here we are, supporting it? We're running out of mandate next year, so we're going to leave some of these dubious ones to solve, so there won't be a budget rebalance, and there will be. I warn you today, as every time, there will be no money for what we predicted, there will be no possibility. And that standard story of mine, I always don't give up, if we're going to survive economically, and here it's all economic. I call on all our institutions, when they were audit reports, I must say, what is SIPA doing, what is the BiH Prosecutor's Office doing? And I have a request for RTVBiH, and they're gonna need somebody to help them out of the budget, some, some reserves. They sent me an answer in 2007 that it was their priority to do so. And they didn't do anything. Seeing these others that there's no sanction for anyone, of course they'll take it. I repeat, give support and support yours, the chairman, conclusions because they are comprehensive. But here's your absurd. We annul one, the other, the third conclusion in the previous parliaments. We're going to cancel out, but are we going to call anyone who's not respected the first conclusion? Which is not respected second, which is not respected is not third. Which is not respected any conclusion of this House. And then, of course, the BiH Parliament is responsible for everything. Let us be responsible for everything when we allow others to make these and those kind of contracts, and that today, at the end of the year, when we should rejoice and celebrate the New Year, we should wonder who it is and how he made those contracts. Well, it's also the bird on the branch that's clearly involved in malfeasance. But no one is allowed to publicly call thieves or mobsters involved in these matters. That's why I asked, as I was elected to the BiH Parliament, that we must stand by thieves and mafia in all fields, from politics, from, I don't know, the police, from this, from that, from school, from health care, everywhere. And what have we done? That the official messenger pays the rent. Hairly be to them, let them pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31574	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31575	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31576	Dear Ambassador Bakir Izetbegović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31577	So I don't have a discussion, so I'm going through the replica. I think we should suggest, either through the reserve or through the budget rebalance, that this year at least we finance the construction of the project and the acquisition of land, because this phase is necessary in building the facility. So I'm going to offer one such conclusion for this purpose, for the accommodation of institutions. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31578	I think we'll open a discussion about the accommodations. Honorable... when we adopt the conclusion and when the Council of Ministers of BiH brings us all arguments, then we will open that debate and simply no longer need to discuss it. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Martin Raguž from the 67th session of the House, which reads: "In the context of the previously adopted conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the provision of favourable credit funds abroad to finance refugee returns of 400 million KM, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to provide a concrete step within 6 months, i.e. the significant financial resources for the return, through borrowing, and the regular (and at least every three months) reporting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives." The consent report you received. The College has not reached agreement and today we will vote in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. There's no discussion about that. I remind you that the conclusions must be delivered in writing regarding these points of the agenda and that at 12.30 we will vote on the Budget, the consent and the conclusions. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31582	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31583	Okay. So we're voting on the amandman and the honourable MP Momčilo Novaković. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For six, versus 27, abstentions four. Insufficient support for the amendment. We're moving on to Amendment II. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 8, versus 22, abstentions 7. This amendment was not supported either. We move to a vote on amandman III..
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31584	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31585	He quits, we thank you. We're voting on the amandman of honourable MP Mirko Okolić. Amendment I. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 8, versus 20, abstentions 8. The amandman didn't receive support. We vote on amandman II..
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31586	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31587	Thank you. He's giving up the honourable MP. The vote on the amandman of Sava Erić. 34 Please prepare to vote. We vote under amandman I.. You can vote now. For 8, versus 17, abstention 10. The amendment didn't receive support. We now have the amendment of the honourable MP Sefer Halilović. However, I heard that... you're giving up the amendment? Thank you. Now we're voting on the draft law in the second reading, Budget, so. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. We're voting on Budget. For 30, against 9, there were no abstentions. I find there's enough entity majority and we've passed the Budget Act. I ask our service to make a report as soon as possible and forward the budget to the PSBiH People's House. We're going to vote on the conclusions. The first conclusion is the honourable MP Husein Nanić. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 39, it wasn't against, there weren't any abstentions. I find the conclusion of the honourable MP Husein Nanić has been adopted. We are voting on the SNSD's proposal to conclude, with the beginning of this conclusion – due to non-execution, the House of Representatives draws its conclusions with – everything is still going. If you don't mind? Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions 3. I konstatovati this conclusion adopted. We move on to a vote on the conclusion of the honourable MP Momčilo Novaković. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) 35 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31591	No microphone 36 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-12-30-2.u31592	You're pulling. Okay, thanks. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 32, against 1, abstention 4, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Moving to point 2. - Commission report to the College. Please prepare to vote. We vote in the second round. The college didn't achieve consent. We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. The agenda point was read when I read the agenda. For 23, v. 6, abstention 1. We've come to a conclusion. Are we clear now? I'm asking you to try to keep working the next way. Let's open the next session right now, open up parliamentary questions and answers and take a break, if necessary, at 1400 hours for lunch. [[Common discussion]] Except to determine the agenda. There may be a change in the agenda, so we'll see where it takes us. Thank you. Session completed at 12.55 hours.
