ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3877	I suggest we start working. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues and fellow representatives, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, with the justification of Mr Špirić, because he is a Council of Ministers meeting but, if we need them for some part of the agenda, there are persons from Mr Špirić's office, we will have present representatives of the executive government; respected gentlemen from the international community who follow the work of today's House of Nations, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you all together and open the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Let me start by saying that the session is attended by 14 representatives out of 15, although I know that the 15th is there somewhere and will join our work, I mean Mr Ivanić. For the 27th session, I suggest the next updated agenda that you received before the beginning of the session 1. The adoption of minutes 25 and 26 of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions; 3. Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 4. Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution of BiH, Proposed by the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance (The Proposal for a Law is in the first reading); 6. Report by the Committee of the College on an effort to reach agreement on the appointment of the chairman, deputy and members of the Independent Committee and the Committee of Appeals of the Citizens, as independent bodies of the police structure of BiH (Proposed Ad hoc Joint Commission for the Implementation of the Procedure of the Designation of the Independent Committee and the Committee for Appeals of Citizens); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment (Second Reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 8. Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment (First Reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Declaration by House on Envoys' Initiative by Božo Rajić and Mr. Rude Vidović to form a working group for the creation of the text of the new BiH Constitution; 11. Proposal for a harmonised summary and individual conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budgets of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance and Budgets of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the revised audit reports of the BiH financial institutions for 2007; 12. Final report on the implementation of measures under the Central Development Strategy for the period 2004-2007 (PRSP) and Economic Trends, Annual Report 2007 of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate; 13. Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the CEFTA Programme, with an analysis of BiH's external trade exchange for 2008; 14. Report on BiH's 2008 progress and Enlargement Strategy and key challenges in 2008 and 2009 (the Directorate for the European Integration of BiH material); 15. Report on the activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for 2008; 16. Proposal for a state strategy for drug control, prevention and control of drug abuse in BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 17. Information on criminal acts against the dignity of persons and morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings in 2006 and 2007 and the first nine months of 2008; 18. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes; 19. Appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals from the Order of Administrative Law Experts, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Military Grant, the grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Bilateral Agreement on Education between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro; 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on preferential trade between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Iran; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding on the Future of the Health Network in South East Europe, in the framework of the regional cooperation process in Southeast Europe; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement, the grant of the Global Environment Fund between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for Realisation of the Global Environment Fund – Forest and Mountain Areas Project; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Albania on International Road Transport of Persons and Things; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Declaration on the long-term programme of regional co-operation and development of mental health in the countries of Southeast Europe; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between BiH and the Commission of the European Community on the financing of BiH and the RDF's participation programme in the 3 European Programme for International Territorial Cooperation, the area of Southeast Europe on the basis of IPA pre-accession assistance instruments, component 2 cross-border cooperation for 2007; 28. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; 29. Giving consent to ratifying the BiH-European Bank Finance Treaty for the Corridor Vc project, the first stage of the North. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Before I open the debate, I will also welcome Mr Ivanić, who joined our work. Now we have a home in complete composition. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3879	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a good day, and I welcome all my colleagues and fellow representatives, all members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, international institutions and guests. I have reported on setting the agenda, because I oppose the way the College has proposed amendments and amendments to the agenda under item 4, if I am not mistaken, where it has classified past the procedure, in addition to the business provisions of the proposal for a decision on accession to the BiH Constitution... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3880	Would you like to get involved?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3881	... determined that the meeting was convened by the chairman, with the agreement of the members of the College and that the session was convened by a written call with the materials, at least seven days before the session was held, which was done. And the agenda, which we received seven days ago, does not contain this point that today offers us and which Mr. President now calls a harmonised agenda. The question of terminology may be, but it's not for me. Furthermore, in Article 56(3) of the Rules of Procedure, it says: ‘In justified cases’, and we have not heard the justifications that are justified, ‘the agenda, the amendments and the addition of the agenda may be proposed during the meeting of the House, and the material divided in the sitting itself’. We haven't heard from proposings who are justifiable reasons for supplementing the agenda in this way. Furthermore, in Article 58 of our Rules of Procedure of this House, it is said: 'The College may include in the agenda other issues which the authorising officers have sent to the House and which fall within its jurisdiction'. We have not heard who is the authorising officer, on the basis of which the College has decided to propose to the House of Amendments and to supplement the agenda for today's session, in particular if the provision of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the obligation point is that it is the one that has passed the procedure in accordance with 4 of the Rules of Procedure or, if by unanimous decision, requests the House's commission. As far as I know, the decision you proposed, gentlemen of the College, did not go through the business procedure because it was not on the relevant constitutional committee. Further reasons why we are opposed to HDZ MPs in this House in 1990 to include this item of the agenda, which is proposed to the first operational post after the opening part of the session, and we have minutes and representation issues, it is put first. It would at least be correct to put it as the final point of the operational part before moving to those points of the agenda concerning the verification of international contracts. Finally, each representative, therefore, and members of the Colleges as individuals or groups, shall have the right to propose amendments and amendments to the agenda for this and for each other session, and shall then be subject to the obligation set out in Article 60 to make it clear to the House that the proposed amendments and amendments to the agenda are made. Now the question is why do we oppose including this point, especially in this way. We object for principled reasons, not because we think we can get a better result. The representatives of the HDZ 1990s and in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples submitted an initiative to form a working group that will create a new constitution of BiH, with the intention of returning this extremely important matter to the lives of BiH and its citizens and its peoples and to stop having talks in the elected groups. We've explained it widely. Unfortunately, in the House of Representatives (that's what we'll talk about when it comes to the agenda) we've been through the way we've been through, we don't hope for much better passage in today's session of this house, but we don't agree that our initiative is being relativated and suppressed into another plan, that it's not given a chance, because it's been given the legitimacy of the unanimous support of the Constitutional Commission of this home and that we are forced to make a decision that has no roots, no legal stand, and it's not moral, which wants to suppress our decision. When this one is voted, it's pointless to talk about our initiative. So we stand up and ask our colleagues to support us and the College to respect this and pull this point. If they don't want to pull it, then put it in the last operational place before the ratification of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3882	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. So I'm obliged, right now, to pass on the position of the College: not to give up any kind of order, so we don't accept any redefining of the agenda. But I must tell you that it is very consistent in the College in accordance with the powers conferred by the Rules of Procedure, unanimously, so the proposed agenda is in line. We will discuss this initiative that you mentioned and it is quite irrelevant whether we will discuss this initiative as points 2, 22, 18 or 7 because it did not receive support in the House of Representatives, you yourself said. If there is no support in one home, then this initiative is pointless, so this initiative is only one home for such a crucial thing as your initiative. I just want to explain why I don't think it's necessary to overdo the agendas now. And when we discuss this item on the agenda, 5 will likely explain the position of the Constitutional Commission in relation to the debate as it was forwarded, practically without a decision, to the House. I wouldn't be opening that agenda right now. And please, beyond the agenda point, we're talking about the agenda, not any other point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3883	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3885	So you can assure me that it makes sense when you decide that you will form a working group to join the amendments to the BiH Constitution, that it is irrelevant or not irrelevant for us to discuss this initiative afterwards. And the debate on her later becomes just a moral issue. She doesn't mean anything anymore in the operational sense. So I am convinced that you have a majority, because behind this proposal are the parties whose representatives held the discussion. You will refuse the initiative of our party, our representatives, as it was rejected at the House of Representatives, but it does not give you the right to deny this home to decide differently from that home if it will decide, because we know the system of consent decisions if they are not equally adopted in both homes, on the one hand. And on the other hand, we insist that the addition of the agenda cannot be put forward, but must be put at the end of the agenda. So that's our request. Do we have a right to that? Whether or not the House will plead or not, you will, take responsibility for yourself, I am speaking this in front of the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public and I say that this initiative is placed without a basis, that it is not correct, and that the aim is to activate our initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3886	Thank you very much. I wouldn't pollemize with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3887	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3888	Mr. Rudo Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3889	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would also like to welcome the distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives and, of course, the ladies and gentlemen attending today's session. 6 And here I want to add my reflection, and it is actually defined in the direction when we talk about constitutional matter, and these days it is also discussed in public debates, it will later be on the agenda, but here are the initiatives that Božo it, whether from one representative or from several representatives of certain parties. ... Of course, I confirm everything that my colleague Rajić said. What brings me into the dilemma, not challenging the strength and rights of the College that uses the right of business, is in fact what the criteria are for the initiatives of this character of the constitutional issue to be addressed in one case when it is directed to the College to discuss first and secondly the Constitutional Commission, and in another situation to go directly to the House's session. I'd like to hear the answer from the College. And the second question, what are the criteria for ranking agenda points, when the agenda is defined, and when the agenda is extended? In fact, that answer would remove the dilemma which is why, here, this point on number 4, which is why it's not on number 11, here's the particular question. These two dilemmas would, in some way, remove my thinking, not contesting the discussion of ideas, initiatives and we are advocates, in the end, here we are, so on February 12th, we clearly used the business provision to return the talks on the Constitution to constitutional committees, to expand with experts and people from the profession, who know constitutional law and to discuss the Constitution. Well, here, I'd like to beg, if you can, and to that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3890	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3891	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present members of the House of Peoples, and those present from the Council of Ministers, as well as others present today's meeting. I think this question we are currently discussing can be clarified if we read Article 58. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, where exactly and explicitly foresees how the agenda is determined, and under 1), says: 'The College shall include in the agenda the drafts of the laws and reports of the committees and any other point which is mandatory, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure; 2) It shall be the mandatory point which has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or if the unanimous decision is sought by the House Commission.' And under 3), which is crucial here: 'The College may include in the agenda other issues which the authorised proposings delivered to the House and which fall under its jurisdiction', which practically means that... The College can simply do as it has done and put those points and those questions on the agenda, as it says here 'and other questions which the authorised proposings delivered to the House and which fall within its jurisdiction'. Practically, I suggest we make a statement on the agenda and just stop every further discussion, because it's groundless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3892	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Neimarlija. Professor, go ahead. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3893	Mr. Chairman, members of the presidency, fellow delegates, without questioning any policy of the Rules of Procedure now read by counterpart Koprivica and, of course, esteeming the full right of the College to include this point, I, on my part, express full agreement with the remarks tabled by colleagues Rajić and Vidović, speaking of the sequence of included points. According to the logic in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, including our home, there are always suggestions that come earlier. And here, I am holding, a formal error was made by the initiative concerning the same, approximately, whether, if, the request, had the same content, considered our Constitutional Commission, had passed through this commission and it was time-consequent in every respect and procedural precedence of the presidency's decision, which is full, legitimate to be included in the agenda. And, for my part, I believe it's not right, that the broken rule that goes into the work of this home is to follow, to respect the order of arrivals of initiatives and proposals. And it would be my turn, if there was already a agenda like this, to put this initiative in fourth place, which has already passed the Constitutional Commission, and on the eighth, or I don't know which line it is, this second one. Of course, it's perfectly clear to me, so to speak, to cover both and other initiatives with the votes of the delegates. I wouldn't judge or intend at all to judge the quality, the value and the passing, so to speak, both initiatives. I have an understanding for both of us, and I could argue for both of us. But I do believe that one manipulation has been made here, so to speak, by the College's rights to the harm of the common order of things with us that are in force. In fact, different initiatives concerning the same subject deserve to be offered in the wake of their arrival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3894	Thank you very much. So, legally speaking... Excuse me, Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3895	Thank you very much. I thank you, Mr. President, welcoming you and the Honorable Mr. Chairman, all fellow envoys and all present in this Chamber. A few times now, this commission has been mentioned, whose head I'm on. I mean, for the truth's sake, the commission wasn't considering this point. She was just the item of the agenda of our commission. And, since the initiative here is required to form a constitution group, we felt that this could not be the subject of the Committee, but the Committee itself has been determined that this should be a question and a point of the agenda of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3896	You've reached the point of debate about the Initiative. I don't allow it. We're discussing the agenda. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3897	Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3898	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about the agenda? So, once again, I confirm that the College had in mind all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and that it was not at all in doubt whether or not it worked. We have made and agreed on the agenda, determined its order in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and respecting one legal rule that the decision is a more significant act than an initiative and making sure that this initiative has experienced a fiasco in the House of Representatives. However, I will, despite our full agreement that we have not hurt the Rules of Procedure and that from the debate we have heard so far, there have been deep interference in the powers of the Members of the College, which the Rules of Procedure has given them, I will put on the statement of the proposal by Mr Rajić and Mr Rude Vidović: that this decision should be taken off the agenda or redefine the order, to put it before the motion for a decision of the Initiative and to discuss the initiative first, and then only there somewhere on the agenda to discuss the proposal for a decision. So, I'm going to take advantage of today's session moderator and take democratic action against the demands of our colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3899	Mr. Chairman, I really don't want to turn into a pain in the ass, but you've been very vaguely formulating a way of saying it. So, we never said, neither I nor my colleague Vidović, nor Mr Neimarlija, that we were looking for the removal of your proposal from the agenda, but for the second place that must be behind the initiative that we launched, which passed all the procedure as a regular point. So, not stripping but just moving back.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3900	Please, then, first of all, I'll put you to the vote on the motion set out by the College of the House of Peoples. Who, for this kind of agenda proposal, is this defined by the agenda? Are we going to figure out how much "for" is? Ten is "for". Right? Who Is “against ”? Three is “against. ” That's 13. Who is “abstained ”? One. That's 14. There's one voice missing. Then it's 11 "for". So, with 11 votes "yes", we accepted the proposed agenda by the College. We're going to the first item of the agenda, that's ad. 1. The adoption of minutes 25 and 26 of the session First we're going to make a statement and I'm opening a debate on the 25th session. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. 9 I place the minutes of the 25th session. Who is "for" this record in this form? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 25th session. We're moving on to a statement on the 26th session. Before that, I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on the 26th session record. Who's "for"? I agree that we have unanimously accepted the 26th session. We're going to point two, that's ad. 2. Answers to parliamentary/legislative questions and parliamentary, i.e. parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3903	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, for this session I received answers to two questions from March 5th and January 29th. So, when it comes to the answer on the question 'why did the Council of Ministers and the Bureau not carry out their legal obligation in such a way that they were obliged to adopt the Information and Security Policy Platform for the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency and to deliver it to Parliament for adoption, so that the Intelligence and Security Agency would do its job more effectively and better in 2009. A year?', the Council of Ministers replied that they were 19. 2. at the Council of Ministers meeting, they set out the proposal for an annual platform and submitted the proposal to the Bureau, and that they set out my response at their 79th session on 5 March. So the answer absolutely has nothing to do with the question. I asked why they didn't carry out their legal obligation in 2008. I did not ask them if they would do their commitment in February, March or in any way in 2009, but why they did not legally implement this obligation in 2008 and allow Parliament to implement this act. So they responded as they replied. If my question prompted them to, behold, even in early 2009 meet their 2008 obligations, that is some progress. If my question initiates them to start implementing their 2010 commitment somewhere in September 2009, and that will be progress. 10 Here, with a delay, it started on this issue at the beginning of 2009, but I ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers to at least start working this platform at the end of 2009 and through the regular procedure of delivering Parliament for adoption. This is not the only act in this area and the sole obligation of the Council of Ministers and the chairman, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its deputies. There are still more of their legal obligations that they, unfortunately, do not carry out. I was thinking only asking for this platform that they will look at the law, that they will see that they are obliged to meet the Executive Intelligence Board, that they have one advisory body there, a commission which, unfortunately, they have not filled out, will not fill out, and it is now serving them and should be as a tool, a tool in carrying out their legal obligations. They are obliged to deliver contracts that are concluded between our intelligence agency on co-operation with other intelligence agencies from other states. None of that, of course, they haven't done it this year. We also discussed this on the committee responsible for overseeing the legality of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. I hope that this question and their answer will move them to do their legal obligation in this year, in this segment. My second question was, "Why does the chairman and the ministers of the Council of Ministers not attend the meetings of the House of Peoples?" And they again respond, so with a response that has nothing to do with my question, that they held a session and reached a working conclusion tasked by the competent ministers to attend the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's meetings when discussing legal acts under their jurisdiction, in order to allow continued monitoring of legislative proposals from the proposed phase to the final adoption. So again, I have no answer to the question asked, "Why in the past time have they not been present?" They make an additional mistake in making a working conclusion at the Council of Ministers' session and, under quotes, give themselves an honorable word, obliging themselves that they will be at these sessions, and only in those cases where possibly their agenda points are the subject of discussion of this home. They're wrong, because they obviously didn't look at Article 62. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People, who bound them as well. The Rules of Procedure not only prescribes the procedure of the House of Peoples but rather a series of other questions, now that I don't explain it, it's not the point. Article 62 speaks of participation at the House session, which in its position (2) says: 'Members of the BiH Presidency can, and members of the BiH Council of Ministers have the right and the duty to take part in the House's meetings.' So it is your right, ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and obligations. It's not your working conclusion at one of your sessions. This is an obligation and your right arising from Article 62. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, as well as Chapter XI. which speaks of relations with the other institutions in Section (a) concerning the relationship between this House and the Council of Ministers, where Article 164 (1) point (d), or (c) also states that they have the right and the obligation to take part in the meetings of both the House and the College and the House Commission, as well as in Article 165, which represents the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of the House or the College or the Commission. So it's your right and obligation, and it's not your goodwill and your conclusion whether you come or not to this session. Thank you very much. I'm not looking for new decisions. I hope that both questions will encourage the Council of Ministers, all its members, to comply with their obligations under the law and with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3904	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. So, at the beginning of the session, I said that Mr Špirić called me before the session began, and said that on Thursday they held meetings of the Council of Ministers and begged for justice, so both for themselves and for all ministers. Meanwhile, Minister Sadović came to us. I welcome Mr Sadović, but I am behind every remark you have made and I believe that in the follow-up to our work and that he will understand, therefore, that the Council of Ministers is following them, in the same way, both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in their work, mainly when they are proposing certain materials. For today, I don't object to them. I object to all this boredom. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3905	Thank you very much. I must say, at the question of the Croatian Club in this house outside the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we expected an answer. We actually got some document or I'd call one pusher, which I don't believe couldn't have been drawn up in a way and that people who work in such institutions don't know how to do it. And it gives us the right to claim that we were right to ask the question: How is it possible that, on the same day of responsibility, war crimes may have been committed, some of us are charged and blamed without the consequences of mortality for 80 years, and those accused and accused of the death of a large number of people in the camp are released? And imagine, instead of the Court answering why that's the case, he's just telling us that that's what the Court did. In the absence of interference, and I do not intend to interfere in the business of the Court, we believe that this is inadmissible and I am afraid that the judicial authority will not be in the function of politics. I also want to say that in the second part of our question that we asked, as a club, under no. 'I ask the services to pass on to the relevant body,' because we haven't received an answer to that part of the question and it refers to the measure given to three people for war crimes and the decision of this court is final, and they've been on the loose for six or seven months, and 13 years three people have been given the punishment. Why is that? Let our services forward the second part of the question to the one who needs it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3906	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3907	Thank you, Chairman. I've asked two questions, I'm still some, but I haven't answered them yet, but I will remind you, in January of a TV show, the Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs said in the drawers of the BiH Council of Ministers there are about 200 legal projects. In general, how is the Parlamenary Assembly quite unemployed, the question is, "How many of these laws are in drawers?" I've got the answer that's none. I'm so glad there aren't any. I'm counting on this to be true, and I'm pleased that there are no 12 legal acts that are not in the parliamentary procedure, so he wasn't in the drawer. There I am, so much about it. In this second question, which has been asked: 'Why does the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, propose a brewery industry or request a brewery industry to introduce safeguards or not accept?', I've got an answer in which it's still left in the air. It is neither accepted nor rejected, etc., etc. And I'm very unsatisfactory, especially for the next answer, here's why I'll read it to you. It says: 'In addition, according to the data provided in the proposal, the quantity of beer imports in 2007 compared to the average quantity of imported beer in the previous three years, 2004-2006, was only higher by 2%, and it was shown 21%.' So, BiH citizens have a terrible lot of money because one fifth, so 20%, over 20%, 21% pay for more expensive beer and drink it so happily. The data I have from the IRS says the following, and let me say here I do, that's Chapter II. And it's II. - And it's II. - I'll, then I've got an II. I don't have these until you do. And in what I have in II. - III. says: "The analysis of the data provided by the Directorate for Direct Caution of BiH found that the quantity imports of beer in 2007 compared to the average of the previous three years were 27% higher and showed financially by 21%." This is a little bit more logical now. I won't, so I'm completely dissatisfied, I'm disappointed, but I'm guessing there may have been some mistakes here, so we'll try to discuss it at the Ministry, so I hope there won't be any specific bad feelings about this issue. But you see, by 2% quantitative and 21% financial, or 27% quantitative, and 21% financial. I mean, that and a fool, when he takes the check, he can see that something's wrong. But here, we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3908	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3909	So I asked a brief question, and I got a brief and clear answer, though. So the question was: 'As BiH is the only country in Europe that is not a member of the TIR system, please answer when will the TIR system be established in BiH?' So here I saw that at the session, the 77th session of the Council of Ministers of 19. 2., given the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation for the authorisation of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, the Association of International Transport Operators of Loads and the issuing and guaranteeing of the international road transport of TIR Carnet and the conclusion of the TIR Carnet Guarantee Agreement with the External Trade Chamber. In addition, a plan of activity to be implemented for accessing the TIR system has been developed. It's 22 steps. Under the plan of the Council of Ministers, BiH should be a member of the TIR system within six months of the day of signing the Guarantee Agreement. So I expect that this problem will be resolved by the end of the eighth month and that BiH will finally become a member of this system. So, I'm satisfied with the answer. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3910	Thank you very much. So one satisfied answer. We've exhausted the reactions to the questions we've received, and we're moving on to new questions. The first Mr. Rudo Vidović pulled, after Šarab, and then Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3911	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the BiH Council of Ministers. In fact, it is known that the BiH Council of Ministers, as part of its rights and duties, needs to adopt documents called the Development Strategy, and has adopted seven strategic documents in the Council of Ministers' 2008 report on the work. So it's a job that requires engagement, so both experts and experts from the resolution ministry and outside the ministry, as well as certain financial resources. So, for example. The BiH Council of Ministers adopted an information society development strategy in BiH as early as 2004. So, a document that provides strategic guidance and action plan for the development of the BiH Information Society for the period 2004-2010 and we are on the verge of that deadline, so in 2010. In order to revive that strategy, it was necessary to lay down by law the Agency for the Monitoring of the Development of the Information Society in BiH, and we know that this law did not pass in the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliament for known reasons. In this respect, the questions for the BiH Council of Ministers read: '1. How much boredom has a development strategy been adopted in the Council of Ministers, all and previous calls? 2. What does the Council of Ministers of BiH intend to do with the strategies adopted and not legally revived through the founding of the agencies, and whether these strategies will become a dead letter on paper, especially when it comes to certain deadlines regarding the years?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I welcome you all together. So, before this session began, I was thinking whether or not I should even ask delegate questions. I've asked a number of delegate questions and in this time I've received very little or almost no answers. Which is why, I really don't know, except that I notice that certain delegates respond zealously in time, and in my case it's something else entirely. 14 So, my colleagues are dissatisfied with the answers and I understand that, and I am absolutely dissatisfied because I do not get answers to a number of delegate questions. To say that they were focused on solving a number of major problems in this country, such as the dispute with Croatia and here... there are years that the issue has been raised. Unfortunately, I have not heard that in any place, no state body in BiH has discussed the issue of more electricity taken over by Croatia, which BiH has damaged by more than 200 million, or the retegorisation of the Ivanica border crossing from passenger to goods, since the border crossing is a very, very big problem for this part of RS and BiH. But no matter what, I will continue with the delegate questions and look for the next time I will count all those questions and ask really answers to all these questions to come very quickly. I refer my next delegate question to the Council of Ministers and this concerns the following: Two years ago, the RS government granted a non-persceptive military location in Trebinj to the State Border Service to resolve its offices' field office in Trebinj. I note that the Trebinj border office pays the rent for the current use of 40,000 marks every year. Given that there is space and that nothing has been done to resolve property-legal relations, I ask the question: 'When will property-legal relations be resolved regarding this facility, since it will thus enable this Border Service unit to reach its own space and that the state will not pay such expensive rents, because we see in the lease item that BiH pays more than 20 million annually? It's a small savings but in that direction we need to look for solutions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3914	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3915	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, we all know that, unfortunately, BiH does not control air traffic over BiH, so in this regard, I want to ask the Council of Ministers: 'How many years does BiH lose money because it does not control air traffic over BiH? How much of BiH's total money has been lost between 1996 and 2009 because it does not control air traffic above BiH? When BiH will take control of air traffic over BiH, resulting from BiH's sovereignty as well as from article 1. Conventions on International Civil Aviation?' That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3916	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. 15 Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3917	So this is a question addressed to the chairman of the Minstar Council. In accordance with Article 73(2) of the Defence Act, taking into account the Agreement on basic principles for resolving the issue of immovable and movable property which will continue to serve for the purposes of defence, signed 12. Seven. In 2007, and given the BiH Presidency's decision on the size, structure, locations of the BiH Armed Forces of 5. Seven. In 2006, an agreement on the final availability of all rights and obligations on movable property was concluded, which will continue to serve for defence purposes. The agreement was signed on 27. 3rd between the two entity prime ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Article 3. century (1) and (2) of the said Agreement states: ‘Archives, files and other documents as other movable assets are excluded from this Agreement and their status will be regulated by a special agreement’. Point 2 states: ‘Excludingly from the provisions of the position (1) of this member of the party in this Agreement, this agreement or annexes thereof may regulate the status of the archive, file and other documents relating to the movement of military property or other movement property as defined in Article 4(2) and Article 9(5).’; In line with the above, I would ask the Chair of the Council of Ministers to answer the following questions: ‘When will the Council of Ministers draw up an annex to that agreement to regulate the status of archives, files and other documents relating to movable military property or remaining movable property, as defined in Article 4(2) and Article 9(5)? And, when the archives, files and other documents of the former entity armies will be conducted in a period of four. 4.1992 to 31.12. In 2005, hand over to the entity archives, from which they originate, to guard and use, in accordance with the Law on Archival Construction?' I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3918	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3919	Thank you very much. I just spoke about the answers to the questions, and I want to repeat at this part of this agenda point: that at the last session of our home we asked a question as a club and we didn't get an answer and that's why I want to renew it. And this is about the court's full decisions against three war crimes perpetrators since 19 August 2008. Every one of them for 13 years, and they're still out there. I want to repeat that question. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3920	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. I've only reported Mrs. Alma Čolo yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3921	Thank you, Chairman. Today we have a report on the work of our Permanent Delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The report suggests that the Council of Europe has adopted its 1626 Resolution asking BiH, among other things, to appoint its representatives to the Venice Commission, the torture prevention committee and the Commission to prevent racial intolerance. Since, according to the BiH Constitution for these activities, the BiH Presidency is responsible, and since we are the only member of the Council of Europe of 47 countries who do not have a representative in the Committee for the Prevention of Torres, I am asking the question of the BiH Presidency: 'When the BiH Presidency, which is under Article V 3c, BiH Constitution, is authorised to represent BiH in international and European organisations and institutions, it is intended to carry out its obligation and to appoint representatives of BiH in the advisory bodies for the monitoring of the Council of Europe, and that again, I repeat, the European Committee for the Prevention of Tortres, that is so-called. The CPT which writes negative reports on the state of the BiH prison, and in this body do we not have a representative, then the Venice Commission, which will be very important in the process of upcoming constitutional changes and also in the European Commission against racial intolerance?'
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3922	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. I'm asking if anyone else needs to ask a question. Finalising point 2. And I'm moving to agenda number three. It's "Ad." 3. Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH (second reading) Before I open the debate, allow me to say a few words. The House of Peoples adopted this amendment at its 26th session, unanimously, in its first reading. At the same meeting of the House of Peoples, it concluded that our Constitutional Commission together with the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives held a public debate in five cities: Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Brcko and Tuzli. The public debate was held in the cities mentioned. After a public debate, the Constitutional Commission of the House approached the discussion of the amendments in the second reading and at the 34th session, held on 25 March, the Constitutional Commission submitted this House Report, which was before you, on the Proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of 17 BiH. At the same time, the Constitutional Commission of the People's House supported amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH in its second reading, with the adoption of one amendment by MPs, Professor Hilmo Neimarlija, which is that the BiH Constitution is subject to the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH. Mr. Slobodan Šaraba has renewed his amendment which has not received support in the Constitutional Commission. I also remind you that the procedure on amendments to the BiH Constitution is being implemented under the basic legislative procedure and I would like to remind you of Article 128. Rules of Procedure which regulates the way the amendments are adopted. It is also important to say that the House of Representatives adopted amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH in the second reading, with an amendment identical to the amendment proposed by Professor Neimarlija on our Constitutional Commission. I am opening a debate on Amendment I to the BiH Constitution and asking who wants a word. Mr. Rajić, Mr. Šaraba, Mr. Koprivica, boredom. So far, I've been accepting these three, so I'll ask who else wants a word later. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am reporting on this point with positive energy and I would like to say immediately that I am expressing my personal satisfaction and satisfaction with my HDZ Party in 1990 that finally in the institutions of BiH, in the highest legislative body, that is, the BiH Parliament, has raised questions, has solved one segment, has resolved one step in the way of transforming this country into a country of bearable, normal and prosperous life. So, I welcome the decision of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives who, with only one vote of opposition, two abstentions yesterday, accepted the amendment to Brcko and I hope this can be a fact that should encourage us and confirm what we in our party have been publicly talking about for months: that it is not true that this country has no alternative. No one has ever closed the alternatives, so neither has BiH, alternatives exist. It is shown on the other hand that you need to have faith in your own mind, in your domestic forces, in your ability to communicate. And in that sense, even though this step isn't too big, whatever it is we're dimensioning, it's as big as a clue, as something new. However, when we talk about the amandman, that is why, we, the representatives of my party, my colleague Rudo Vidović and I, will support this amendment in a warm way, with this supplement that Professor Neimarlija observed was of a technical nature, that a time of entry into force should be established, but something that is material truth should be said. The amendment for Brcko is nothing new or constitutionally or politically. It's just a verification of the actual situation on the ground stemming from the arbitration decision for Brcko, and nothing more. But that's a lot. So, this is how we return Brcko to the constitutional order of BiH, put him under the authority of BiH institutions and ensure that all of its attributes belong to the local administration and self-government, on the principles which we will talk about, on some other occasion, to ensure the equality of the people and their representation in those authorities, which, unfortunately, today is not complete. 18 So when we talk about this, about this first small but big step for Brcko, then I must express my opposition to any merit for this act, whether it is attributed to themselves by the parties, their leaders or some other group. So I respect the efforts made by representatives of certain political groups and parties to find a way. However, I am deeply convinced that all of us who want to speak on the basis of facts, and we know that the Brcko amendment was possible only because the majority will and consensus of the three constituent peoples were reached. So there's the spine. There is an answer to the question why the amendment for Brcko is possible almost at the level of plebisctic support. And that means calling at the same time: this is the path that we should continue constitutional changes further, in the consensus of three constituent peoples of BiH and other citizens to look for solutions with gratitude to international factors, especially here I mean supervisor for Brcko, Mr. Rafi Gregorijan, but we expect them to help us with good services, not to further arbitration over us and our will. I believe we have the strength to find solutions and that Brcko is a green light that shows that far more important solutions can be built on the consent of the peoples and citizens of BiH, for BiH and its inhabitants. So I'm gonna figure this out. On other issues, we will have the opportunity to touch on some other and political and legal reflections. So, once again, I am pleased that the issue of brčki is returning to constitutional law, it ceases to be a question under constant supervision, and I expect that what colleagues have offered us today, and that commission that is formed, will work on these principles and respect all those who make up the formation of this country and its citizens and then we can get out of this crisis. Otherwise, it's hard for us to keep doing what we've done for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3925	Thank you very much. So I have to react because it's my duty. We must not harm either the Rules of Procedure or the BiH Constitution with our discussions. This is not the House of Representatives, this is the House of Peoples made by the Constitution of BiH three clubs... we are not all sitting here for nothing else because we belong to one people, this is not, not political parties. I'd like to ask you to keep that in mind in our rhetoric. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, therefore, I have renewed the amandman, which yesterday did not receive support from the Constitutional Commission, for the reason that I want to remain on the trail of that political stance that I expressed and when considering this constitutional amendment in the first reading, when I made it clear that amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH... does not comply with the Constitution of BiH, does not comply with Article I point 3. The BiH Constitution is not in line with the final arbitration decision on Brcko. 19 So, my two interventions or my two proposals on the proposed amendment refer to the precision of the text of the BiH Constitution, which I believe is necessary and necessary and realistic to avoid the political implications that can be created during its application. I wish I was really wrong. Of course, the time is ahead that will show whether or not this discussion of mine has been justified, but I am staying with this amendment pending support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3927	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will briefly comment on everything that we have had in the previous procedures on both the Commission and the House. I think accepting the proposed constitutional solution for the Brcko District is making a concrete step in BiH's negotiation process, instead of the increasingly dangerous confrontation that no one wants in this country. The adoption of this amendment certainly builds on a constitutional justice system in BiH and solves a non-small problem in BiH. For all of this and especially for the sake of interest, first of all, the people who live in the Brcko District, I think that this amendment should all be warmly supported and voted in this session today. When it comes to the reasons which were priority, i.e. which led to this proposal of this amendment, there are, above all, three reasons concerning the VAT dispute, i.e. the distribution of taxes on additional value, the inability to resolve before the BiH Constitutional Court issues and therefore, of course, the arbitration tribunal still exists for the Brcko District, and the third issue concerning the BiH Constitutional Court's position that the Brcko District has no right to pass laws. So that, in my opinion, is the three key reasons why we simply don't have a choice, we have to approach these constitutional changes and bring this amendment. When it comes to the proposed addition of Mr Neimarlija, or Mr Belkić, to the House of Representatives, it concerns Article IV under 3. The BiH Constitution under h) where it is said that "the parliamentary assembly decisions will not take effect before publication". Of course, this provision of the existing Constitution is unclear and insufficient. Here it is specified, meaning the proposed amendment proposed by the amendment of eight days from the day of voting for its entry into force, which in practice means that we should indeed accept this amendment as a technical amendment and adopt it at this session today. As for Mr. Šaraba's amendments that the words 'one or more entities' are contrary to the existing BiH Constitution, I understand that, above all, and I interpret... that the proponent used those words from the aspect of BiH's constitutional court accession. So, this is not at all prejudged by the future constitutional arrangement of BiH on how many and what entities and internal constitutional arrangements will have, but simply means from that point of view alone, access to the BiH Constitutional Court, such words in the proposed amendment and use. 20 In the end, I would just like to say and understand what is clear to all of us, and obviously that in BiH the only way to solve the issue... of the future constitutional arrangement of BiH are exactly the principles that, going from gradually easier to harder issues, we can be in a position to address one issue at a time in this way to the BiH Constitution, acceptable to all the peoples in BiH. I propose to the House that we accept the amendment in terms of how the House of Representatives did so yesterday at the held session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3929	Thank you very much. The next call came from Tihić, but if it's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3930	Mr. Chairman, I apologize for reacting late, perhaps for years, and perhaps for not understanding you. Now I realized later, and that's why I'm a little late, that you warned me that my debate had gone beyond business norms, if I understood correctly. If so, then I am obliged to replicate and tell you that you are wrong. So, all MPs, envoys or delegates, whatever we call here, are political persons, political representatives, and no one has the right to restrict a representative to act politically on his own behalf, as a free man, on behalf of the club he belongs to, the club of the people, in the case of this people's home or in the name of the party he belongs to. So, I can't have anyone in this house by the Rules of Procedure (if he calls on me to tell me which article is being called) taking away the right to speak as Božo Rajić, a citizen of BiH, a free person, as a representative of the HDZ 1990s and as a member of the Croatian People's Club. If you have that provision, warn me and give me a read on which provision you are calling. Otherwise, I think it was incorrect for you to restrict me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3931	We're not gonna paralyze business disputes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3932	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3933	The BiH Constitution says the House of Peoples consists of three clubs: the Croatian Club, the Serbian Club and the Bosniak Club. He's not talking about political options.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3934	21 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3935	But you have the right to maintain your position. Mr. Tihić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3936	Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the Brcko Municipality, or later the Brcko District, is unresolved from the Dayton Agreement and we can say this is also a simple question, but also to say it is both a big and important question. It's simple because we had, however, when making the amendment itself on the table the arbitration decision and... this amendment is a summary of that arbitration decision. It may also be simple because, in the drafting of this amendment, a supervisor has, in a certain way, involved, or consulted, the supervisor, which is quite logical in view of his position in respect of both the arbitration decision and the position of the Brcko District. So this is certainly a very important issue that finally resolved the legal status of the Brcko District in one of the strongest possible ways in the BiH Constitution, through amendments. It is also legalization, as one says, of the existing state, but it is very important to legalize it in this way. The issue and legal status of the Brcko District are resolved here, and we left the arbitration decision when we resolved the issue of address to the BiH Constitutional Court in the following positions. This is beyond this arbitration decision, because practice and life have shown that the Brcko District, or its Assembly, can come into conflict with entities, with the BiH state and that it should have the right to address the Constitutional Court. And it was certainly left with the possibility that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly law regulate some more issues that arise or that may appear in the functioning of the Brcko District in the BiH legal system. Therefore, that is the third reason why it is important that this amendment is adopted. It does not matter, normally, who is and how much he has contributed to the adoption of this amendment, it is important that there is one general consensus and it is important that this is a good time for us to have a debate on future constitutional reform. Of course, I support the amendment that Mr. Neimarlija suggested. When it comes to Mr. Šaraba's amendment, I understand the dilemmas that exist with him, but this is a special amendment concerning only Brcko District and it does not refer to the issue of BiH's structure, a territorial organisation, because it is a question at the beginning of the Constitution in Special Article I point 3. defined and these two things should not be replaced simply. Therefore, this procedure for the adoption of the amendments has shown us that without one broad consensus, without the consensus of all political parties there is no constitutional reform and that only with political dialogue, discussion, respect for the other and other can we build BiH, with agreement and compromise. There's no alternative to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3937	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Next is Mr. Zrno, then Mrs. Majkić, after that, Mr. Rančić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3938	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3939	Replic or debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3940	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3941	No, no, Zno called earlier. Come on, then, give up the grain so there's no problem. Mr. Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3942	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3943	But, yes, yes, I'll record you after Mr. Rančić. Yeah, we got along now. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3944	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, guests, media, and everyone present at this House of Peoples session, I would like to welcome you. And I think there's nothing new to say about what's been shown so far, which is generally accepted. Given yesterday's debate that was long, it probably wasn't exhausting, but there was only one item on the agenda in the House of Representatives, but I have to show it in person here, and here on behalf of my colleagues, the pleasure because this just happened to us. Not because we have changed one amendment and not only because, not to repeat, we have returned Brcko to the constitutional justice system of BiH, which we have solved one, let's say, a big question, but because my smallness can also conclude that it is about one opening of one process, that, after a long, long time before the light that turns on the green light. I would like this process to really not stop and not only remain with the amendment that we have tied to the Brcko District, but also to be a process that I hope deeply announces this fourth point of our agenda. That in this institution called the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, regardless of who it is and whose initiative, which is a good initiative, we are indeed deciding and doing the job to the end. So from this point of view, I view the passing of this amendment as our joint gathering around the project, not about the form but about the essence, about the content this country depends on and which, this project, this country has long expected. Of course, we will unreservedly, I do not want to comment on the amendments that have arrived on this amendment – I do not want to comment on them, everyone has their democratic right to think and to invest either agree or disagree or change 23 of what was offered – so I say we will definitely support this amendment in that form, the original form in which he came before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3945	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. So, Mrs. Majkić won't argue. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3946	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, since my colleagues said most things, I'm going to try to be very brief. So, amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH, since constitutional legal status of the Brcko municipality has not been resolved so far, but it has been covered by the Annex II of the Dayton Agreement and by the Arbitral Tribunal's Decision, amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH inaugurates the area of the Brcko municipality in the Constitution in the constitutional legal system of BiH. This amendment prescribes that Brcko is given the status of the local self-government unit with the powers and status prescribed by the final decision of the arbitration tribunal and this amendment is protected in such a manner as to protect the status of the Brcko District in such a way as to prescribe the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and the procedure before the Constitutional Court, the initiation and procedure in some future disputes between the state institutions, entities and the Brcko District. So we will support this amandman I. to the BiH Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3947	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3948	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I would also like to present my reflection today as a member of the Constitutional Commission and as one of the members of that committee who participated in a public debate in Brcko and Tuzla when it comes to the debate on this amendment. Discussions have shown that constitutional matter triggers public attention, not only from political parties in Brcko and Tuzla, and I also have a transcript with public debates from Banja Luka and Mostar, but also from intellectuals, so from the profession of university professors dealing with constitutional law. And from these considerations it could actually be heard thinking about their vision of the future constitution of BiH, not challenging too much the need for an amendment to Brcko, to define the status of Brcko District, which I absolutely support. And logically, in Brcko, it was heard that representatives of all parties, representatives of the executive government unanimously supported, as it made it easier for Brcko to function. However, other discussions in other places are interesting, particularly in Tuzla, which have little or no other views. I was impressed by a few of these discussions, I don't want to comment here today, but they mainly focused 24 on the vision of a future constitutional solution and there was also thought about the need for a new constitution, which should certainly not be ignored. But yesterday I spoke to the Constitutional Commission, and today here, so this amendment is needed to define Brcko. The text is accepted in the original form as it is, with the technical correction of the esteemed colleague Neimarlija. So, the content of this amendment is acceptable, and especially what is important: it sends a message that a broader consensus has been reached, above all, in the Council of Ministers, where here are representatives of six political parties and, ultimately, this broader consensus, with consultations with representatives of international organisations, has resulted. In this situation, it can indeed be a message that in future talks on constitutional resolution only possible, therefore, by reaching a broader consensus to make the result as it was done yesterday in the House of Representatives. And my mood, in fact the situation, says that the mood in the House of Peoples is similar. Of course, therefore, I support the original text without any other corrections, interventions, respecting reflection, whether, and fellow Šarabe, but without its amendment I will support the original text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. We have another Mr. Jović reported. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3950	Thank you very much. I, in some ways, feel obliged to submit a small report, and very briefly, since this high house at the 26th session, held on 5 March, was tasked by the Constitutional Commission in co-operation with the House of Representatives and the Constitutional Commission to hold a public debate on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH. I want to report to you here to the esteemed colleagues and to the presidents in the sense that the public debate was held, that it was very well visited by the relevant factors that we wanted to see, but certainly also by the citizens, the NGOs, the professional people and scientists. The ambience in which the public debate was held, I would also like to say: it went exactly the way today's session of this house, which has been presented so far by distinguished colleagues, in support of this moment to make a decision on the adoption of amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH. There's certainly been other reflections, which is why we've held a public debate. However, what I particularly hold is important: all public debates are important, and we held in Banja Luka and Mostar and Tuzla, and especially here in Sarajevo, but also in the public debate that was held in Brcko, because in some ways it concerns citizens and people living in this part, which is an interest for the whole of BiH. In a public debate, all the political parties that form the Council of the Brcko District, then Mr. Mayor, the President of the Council, the Mayor, and in a long address, Mr. Overseer for Brcko, Mr. Gregorijan, gave full support to the adoption of such an amendment. So I want to tell you that from what we had on the ground and we held a public debate there is a political consensus of 25 who represent all the citizens of Brcko, and that is what is most positive here at this point to declare that we would make an easy decision. I therefore call on the distinguished colleagues of our home to base such a report and commitment for this amendment on the adoption of amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3951	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Anybody else want a word? I am concluding the debate on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH and on Mr Šaraba's amandman, which was also an integral part of the debate. Rather, we will approach the plea; I do not mention the amendment of Professor Neimarlia, because he is an integral part of the Constitutional Commission Report and he is accepted as such... He will be accepted when we vote on the amandman and the Constitution. I first place on the statement of Mr. Šaraba's amendment, I will remind you, which reads: 'In the item (1) of the proposed amendment in front of the words of the entity, the word two in the paragraph (2) of the proposed amendment is deleted more and the word "both" is added instead." Did I read your amendment correctly, Mr. Šarab? I'm putting Mr. Sharaba's amendment on the line. Who's "for"? One. Who Is “against ”? Five, six, seven, eight, nine. Nine. Are There “Restraints ”? Two. Eleven, did I make a good point? So, the amandman was rejected. We are now moving to a decision on Amendment I to the BiH Constitution. Who is "for" this amendment? Fourteen, I'd say. Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? And one “abstained. ” And I agree that, with 14 votes "for" and one "abstained" vote, we have accepted amandman I. to the Constitution of BiH. [[APLAuz]] I think this is worth a round of applause because it practically started a constitutional change in Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement. 26 The proposal is for the College to give one break. This break, how long would it take? Fifteen minutes, but please, we'll be here in 15 minutes. Yeah, that's right, maybe to be exact, exactly at 1:00 p.m. we keep working. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3955	Ladies and gentlemen, here, on behalf of the College, I would like to give a brief explanation for the proposal for a decision to join the BiH Constitution. Somewhere at the beginning of the session, there was a question of why, right now, and why, in this way. The reason to put this issue on the agenda today is, first of all, this previous point we talked about, about the amandman to the Brcko District, and the second reason is last year's session of the PIC Management Board, which has given support to the policy of dialogue, agreement and compromise on all issues, and here is this one important issue. You also saw Commissioner Ren's statement that he expects BiH, before becoming a candidate for membership, to show its readiness to take responsibility, domestic politicians to address important issues, both legal and constitutional solutions. The issue of constitutional reform is, as I say, the current topic since the adoption of the Dayton Agreement and there is no, it seems to me, the time when this issue of the Constitution, the amendment, the amendment, the new constitution did not move in one way or another, with greater or less intensity. From making a new constitution to making amendments to the Constitution, I don't know you, even when we're making a new constitution, it's the same as the amendment to the Constitution, so whether there was one amendment or two amendments, because the BiH Constitution can only be changed by amendment. And when the new one is brought it is then amandman I., as Aneks IV was the amandman I. to the Constitution of the Republic of BiH. 27 In the decision you received in the material, it was said to approach the amendments to the Constitution and that this concerns the issues of harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and Additional Protocols. It's our constitutional obligation. So when we adopted Annex IV, or adopted the Dayton Agreement, we said we had to do it. And when we were admitted to the Council of Europe, also one of the post-opportune conditions was to bring the Constitution of BiH into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, and then, I don't know, it was said to you that there are discriminatory provisions when it comes to the selection of members of the Presidency, the House of Peoples, the inequality of national minorities, etc., that I am now not entering into this analysis that the provisions should all be brought into line with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Additional Protocols. A second question: the jurisdiction of the state, central levels and local levels? You know that we here in Parliament very often do not have the passing of some laws, some decisions because of the different interpretation of the question whether an entity is responsible or... is a competent state, or whether it is a kind of shared jurisdiction, so this is a matter of matter that needs to be found and, for this, a practical reason on the agenda where we would more clearly ask the question of the jurisdiction of the state, central and local levels of government, a more functional BiH institution. All who agree to reform the BiH Constitution agree that the aim of the reform is a more efficient and cheaper structure, a constitutional structure. We know that BiH institutions have a lot of certain indeterminations, they are exposed to complicated procedures, the various possibilities of blockades without deblocking instruments, and it is important, we need to have, in any case, clearer rules on how BiH institutions work and operate, because the Constitution, when it was built and at the time it was made,... what were the opportunities, certainly couldn't have worked out until the end of some things when it was more functional institutions. That we have a more efficient and functional power that we especially need now when it comes to BiH's path to the EU and NATO, when we have to work far faster, far faster to adopt some laws, than we are allowed by existing parliamentary procedures. The issue of BiH's territorial organisation and central levels of government, perhaps one of the most difficult parts of the talks on the constitution, and I am at least optimistic that we can achieve some results there. But in this way we want to say that there is no taboo theme, that we can talk about everything, and even such difficult questions. If we agree, we will not, it will be the same with the remaining issues that are the content of constitutional reform. And we also put under e) other constitutional issues. So, in addition to all of this, other issues may arise in the course of the debate, one way or another. Maybe this is too ambitious, someone's gonna say it's a little bit, that there's a new constitution to be made, someone's gonna say this is too much. We as politicians must move within realistic possibilities. What we agree on will be adopted at both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, regardless of whether this is small or much. And, I would take the opportunity to invite all the political parties really to use all their strength, all their abilities in the direction of seeking agreement and compromise, and not in the direction of exclusion, and to have someone say, well, we're not doing it because... this is what this party or that party, this one or that club is proposing. I'd really like to ask you to take all the responsibility in that. It's not right now, someone's going to say it's a question of... Prussian trio documents, etc. Careful, when it comes to the leaders of the Prussian Troika, we said in December that these issues should come to Parliament. And there are no 28 of those leaders, whether the threes whether six or anyone else who can take responsibility for the constitutional reform and be responsible for the solutions. Normally, this requires clarification and discussion and agreement and effort and position, but also opposition. And that's why it's important, here, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to invite all the political parties to engage in the process of changing the BiH Constitution and to take all their knowledge, to make as much use of their mind as possible in the direction of reaching better agreements and compromises, not arguing and exclusion and differences, or it's going to be like this or it's not going to be like this, you know, or if we... remove or add some point and so. This gives plenty of space to all, and to those who are for the amendment to the Constitution, a partial change to the Constitution, and it also gives space to those who are for the new constitution, because if you look at the content of the topics that are listed here: it is 80% of the Constitution, people. Normally, as far as we can agree, it might eventually turn out to be 10%, but all these topics are on the agenda, there's no taboo theme, we'll talk about everything. What we agree on will be adopted. And it doesn't need to be rejected either because it's little or because it's a lot. We need to show one responsibility here and change the order of things, more of us working on certain projects, agreements, and less of those sitting on the sidelines and criticizing us, that's the most important thing. It's the easiest thing to sit around and tell your story to make it an ideal solution. Ideal solutions are in Bosnia real solutions, the ones we can agree on, you know. They're ideal solutions, and everything else is just wishful desires. And this is a good test to show the responsibility of all politicians, all political parties about the readiness to build BiH together, we work together, here, this BiH constitution. At times, we may be helped by the international community, some advice, some mediation. Maybe not, you know, but nobody's gonna do this job for us for sure. This is what we have to do and take responsibility. Therefore, here again, especially this house, I call on us to make a decision on the accession to the BiH Constitution. To approach, it will be one process that will involve not only these homes but various governmental, NGOs, experts, both, and the other, and the third, but we must define political will in the first order. Experts and, I don't know, we can let experts do the Constitution in those stages... when we have a clear political will that we want. And political will requires effort, agreement, willingness to compromise. And here I am once again inviting you here, calling on all other political parties to make today our joint business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3956	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Before I open the debate, I would also like to welcome Minister Nović, who joined our work today. Thank you so much for coming. The word was received by Mrs. Majkić, behind it Mladen, so Šaraba, Mr. Rajić, and we will see about the others. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3957	Thank you very much. So, according to what happened earlier, it's good to continue on similar topics, and then it would be best to go from what was actually the reason why the College even proposed such a decision. We know that constitutional changes are not a prerequisite for European integration. But we also know that in this country, instead of misunderstandings, we should start sitting down, agreeing and agreeing. And what does the motion for this decision mean? The proposal primarily means calling on all political parties and all peoples within the Parliamentary Assembly to try to come together and find common agreement on issues related to constitutional changes. So no one can be the individual owner of this idea. And we can all be owners together, because this is an invitation and an appeal for all political parties to be involved in these processes. What is the essence of the very proposal that today lies before the delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly? It is primarily an attempt to talk and discuss constitutional changes from different places finally return to this country's highest legislative act and make it a precondition for debates and try to come to an agreement on key issues concerning the constitutional changes that await us. So here in this place by each of us. The other thing is, I said, openness, not three, not five political parties or their leaders, so all of us sitting here. Everyone with their ideas. And third, that indeed after all, after all the debates, and all the ideas are as good as they're real, because we can have who knows how good ideas, and that they don't have a partner to accept it, that it's an attempt at a minimum of what can be a consensus between us. For every other arrangement, partners need to do so, and those who suggest it will have to think about who their partners are. We can think about the subject of amending the Constitution completely, quite a new constitution, until a new constitution is adopted, but who are your partners for it? So if that idea can't be supported, who are our partners? I believe that by accepting and adopting this decision, we will send a clear message to the citizens of BiH that the political parties in BiH are ready to agree and that we will only use the services of the international community if we need them. So I think it's definitely past the time when such important decisions will be made and imposed by international factors. I think that this is an irrevocable time and I often think, where fortunately, if we had started to negotiate and agree earlier, BiH would probably have moved far further along the path towards European integration and state-of-the-art in this country. So I think, from the political party I come from, from the people I come from, that this decision should be supported and, in that sense, I hope that other colleagues will interpret this decision in such a way. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3958	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3959	My colleagues and colleagues, I must say at first that I am against this decision. Why? We have had one attempt at changing the Constitution in time which has been named April Package. Same participants. As a result of the whole effort, we received a fall in the April package and one extremely negative climate in BiH. I'm interpreting this initiative as another unprepared experiment at the moment. Why am I saying that? Because this document that we have ahead of us is what we're going to do. And what I could support is just point a, because around it I think we can reach an agreement. We have an initiative practically made by three leaders who have completely three different views on point b), point c, point d), and under other constitutional issues probably no one knows what they're thinking. When I talk about the jurisdiction of the state, we have requests from parties from the RS, especially the party behind this initiative to return jurisdiction to entities. We have the position of another participant, president of the U.S.A., who says that's out of the question. Their view is that they need new competencies, and the SNSD leader's position, or the RS party, SNSD's position that there are no new responsibilities. This theme has been put in place. One of these people is either not going to respect their position or we already know today that there are no deals and that we are starting this initiative without meaning. A territorial organization is a question that, in my opinion, there are no minimum chances of an agreement, and this topic is opening. What's she gonna do next month? To entertain the people, to express their own political views, to argue in which everyone defends their political views and, as a result, a completely negative political environment in which to act. I honestly think... it's an obligation for the leader to sit down and negotiate. And I don't see anything wrong with that. And all those who say the Constitution should be returned to Parliament, I agree. But look at the history of all the countries that have had some changes. First, political leaders made a deal and carried burden and responsibility on their backs when they reached an agreement, and then put things in Parliament. I have a feeling that now, in this way, you're practically pushing an initiative with a clear view that there's nothing out of it, and it's going to produce a very negative environment in which to look for who's to blame for having nothing. And there will be responsibility on the other side. I'm afraid this unprepared initiative will have very negative consequences. This is where everything opens, but literally everything. This initiative, as defined by points (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e), opens the Dayton Agreement. Don't hide behind the fact. So, it's a questionable jurisdiction, it's a questionable territorial organisation, and by adopting this decision, I'm now speaking as a politician from the RS, it's got the legitimacy to open the whole Dayton Agreement. I don't see any reason for that, especially when nothing's prepared. And knowing the logic, I am convinced that this decision, if taken like this, will serve in the years to come for the permanent calling and relativization of the existence of the Dayton Agreement. And this generation of politicians has no conditions to change it. As I personally think there are no conditions for anyone to cheat on, and it has been far more honest, if it is already going to change the Constitution, or not to mention what is being changed or, if mentioned, what is being changed and what 31 topics will be discussed, remain only on what is the possibility of reaching agreement. Everything else is mere political manipulation or the escape of leaders of responsibility for what they do, and they have no right to do so. And tossing it into Parliament, so that it can be discussed in Parliament. That's why I'm extremely against it. I would like to make a mistake, but I am convinced that if this initiative is accepted and this decision is made that it will produce very negative consequences and that instead of dealing with the crisis, the economy, the real things that we can do in this context, we will get one topic that will drag us to the next election and that will serve again in the next elections for the victory or greater political support of individual structures. And that the basic goal is not at all the one that should be, which is that the Constitution changes where we agree. Why open a constitutional topic if there is no agreement? What's the point of that? It is the turn that key political parties, which have most, firstly, achieve agreement, at least in principle. Now, the second thing is if there is a principle agreement on a different territorial organisation, the second thing is if there is a principle agreement on the powers of the state, the middle levels of government and everything else. But then he should tell us. If there is no agreement, do not open these topics, because they will only be a manipulation of the public and the creation of a very negative climate in BiH, which I consider my obligation to warn you. That's why I won't support this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3960	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this decision, when I saw it, was a big surprise to me, although there's no need for any big surprises in politics, and there shouldn't be any surprises in politics. Namely, the ink on that decision we adopted this morning hasn't dried up, and we already have a decision on major constitutional changes. Namely, two are the basic reasons why I'm against this decision. The first is that, in my opinion, the promoter had no basis for calling on Article 143. The Rules of Procedure and to propose this decision, since this decision was first to be considered in the committee responsible, in the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations, because Article 26 b) said that the Constitutional Commission is considering important issues for the constitutional order of BiH. So, this 143, which was called by the motionary, where the House of Peoples is making decisions, I don't think that this type of decision and decision of this weight is absolutely meant. It is thought of those decisions: the item of the 20th agenda where one member of the House of Nations is replaced by another member, therefore, but my remark is less important than this other remark. Namely, the National Assembly of the RS adopted an extremely important and significant document last night, according to RS officials, and I fully support them, according to both the position and the opposition. ... on the Declaration on the basis of talks on possible changes to the BiH Constitution and on 32 protection of the interests of the RS. And this decision I have in front of me is contrary to this declaration, with Article 2(2), (3) and (4). (I haven't had a lot of time since I just got to read it to the end) but I would certainly find more places where this decision is contrary to this declaration adopted by the National Assembly of the RS. However, the key reason why I am against this decision is point d), although both points b) and c) deserve full attention and full negativity, but the point... where the territorial organisation is spoken of and the central levels of government is a complete confirmation of the Prudish Agreement and the Prussian Agreement where the organisation of the RS is conducted on four territorial units, hence the change of the constitutional arrangement of BiH against which I am absolutely. And, right at the beginning, I say that in any change and in any conversation of this kind, me and the political party that I belong to, we don't want to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3962	...and prepare Mr. Jović and Mrs. Majkić's replica. So two replicas. First she asked for Mrs. Majkić, then Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3963	I would really understand all these discussions correctly if it were here that it was a conversation on the subject and a mandatory amendment to the Constitution in that segment. We are opening a story and I would like those who feel that the decision should not be adopted to tell me what this topic is in this country that should not be opened in Parliament. Is there another topic you shouldn't be talking about? So who could be against all political parties finding themselves and telling their opinion on these issues? Or what, then, what kind of obligations, are these topics to talk about?- I'm sorry. What does that mean, and by breaking any decision, even this decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that Mr. Šaraba is talking about? I want to have the right to talk about everything. And I think that's how each of us should have the opportunity and the right to talk about everything. This is a good initiative, one proposal to get together at last and not to be gathered by strangers, who should be more clear to them what this means to us than we are here ourselves. What will be the result of this? That depends on what we're going to discuss and how we deal with it. Are we even gonna make a deal? But why don't you talk? If it hadn't been for those conversations we're talking about right now about other things, there would have never been an amendment for Brcko. So, did we make a mistake? Here, today we consider it a key success of this country. The arguments cited, here, those opponents of this decision, they are against opening any question on the subject of today's case. I don't accept it, and I can't really accept that any topic is forbidden for this home. So I really suggest, all of what you have as an idea, as a proposal, it would be a good idea to get involved and not be a three-way deal, but to be an agreement of all the political parties that will succeed and find the minimum that will allow this country to move forward. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3964	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So, the second replica is the lady.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3965	The replica of Mrs. Majkić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3966	We'll hear Mrs. Čolo's replica first, and then you'll be replicating it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3967	I would like to replicate what Mr. Šaraba said: that this decision by the House of People is not in line with the Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia which was voted yesterday at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I have never heard that acts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be brought into line with entity acts. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's decision, if taken today, has more legal power than entity acts. Therefore, there is no obligation to bring the act of the Parliamentary Assembly into line with the act of a lower organisational unit. It's one legal nonsens. And the other thing is the essence of the act. The declaration is more of a political act. In that declaration you made your wishes and how your representatives will behave in the constitutional reform process and I think this declaration has presented a series of inaccuracies, but I wouldn't now, this declaration is not the subject of today's debate, a series of inaccuracies when it comes to BiH's position in the context of the Dayton Constitution and from the aspect of the entity's position in the Constitution. But that's another question. But I'd like to tell you, so the declaration is more of a political act, and the decision is a normative act, and there is no obligation to bring the normative act more legal force into line with the political act of an organisational unit that is at a lower legal level. And you know that, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3968	Thank you very much. I think it's now that my colleague Šaraba has restored legal matter, but I'm giving him a replica on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So obviously we didn't understand each other, Mrs. Čolo, but, well, there's time, it's gonna be a story that's gonna be told for a long time. So, Mrs. Majkić, the topic that should not be opened is the theme of changing the Constitution in this way and I am against the accession of the amendment of the Constitution in this way. So, overnight, we got a decision with big ideas and big suggestions on what to do. Now, you can't do it like this. I'm not against you saying one thing, but today we're adopting this 34 decision in which we will clearly determine what we need to change. So, talk or don't talk, it's okay. And I respect what we're saying. But today we are adopting an act that will make it clear what the goal of these future changes is and in which direction these changes will take place. Now, that's a big difference between what you said and what I'm saying. So, to speak of amendments to the Constitution, but to some declarative acts and the adoption of acts enter only when full consent is reached. Obviously, we don't have consent here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3970	Please, they'll drag us into endless replicas. He was looking for a replica on the line by Mr. Koprivica and I'm not going to give anyone a straight line to the replica anymore, so that's it. Here you go, Mr. Koprivic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3971	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3972	And we'll stick to the point of the agenda, of course, the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3973	In support of what we heard in the opening statement from Mr. Tihić, Mrs. Majkić, and this comment by Mrs. Čolo, I would like to replicate to Mr. Šarab. I'm just going to read one part of point 2. The RS National Assembly declaration he is calling for, which reads: 'RS is ready to participate in talks on constitutional changes in BiH, in line with this platform. Constitutional changes as a complex and long-term process must be the result of consensus and compromise, as BiH itself is the result of compromise. In the process of building constitutional democracy in BiH, changes to the BiH Constitution should be an expression of universal democratic principles, with respect to the political framework given to the Dayton Peace Agreement for the functioning of parliamentary democracy in the modern state and society." I ask myself and you, and Mr. Šarab above all, does this point 2 give a full basis for adopting and making a decision that is the subject of today's debate? So I suggest we continue in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3974	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. So, let's not get into any more debates, please, about acts that aren't on the agenda. We're not going to discuss entity acts now, no matter what acts. So, we move on to the debate and I give my word to Mr. Jović, and let Mr. Rajić prepare himself. 35 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3975	Thank you very much. Encouraged by discussions, I'm going to turn to you today, dear colleagues, for the reason that I feel like we don't have any opinions about such important matter, or any other matter, but we simply have certain vanitys. Well, do we need vanity after 14 years of adopting the Constitution, which is called Aneks IV of the Dejtonsko-Paris Peace Treaty, and where we have lived for 14 years as prisoners, all citizens, all the peoples and this country, something called dysfunctional, expensive and unfair. So I welcome those who have thought that it is time to open up this kind of debate, and I thank Bog that at least today came after 14 years, that we, as people who want and will, can respect our country and respect what is called the achievement of civilization, talk in the institutions and bodies of government, and not make decisions that are important to the future of generation that will live here in other places. When and where should the policy be agreed, what was the talk before, and how should they agree if it is not the right place for Parliament? That is why it is good for politicians who think in the way that it was said earlier: that BiH as a well-conceived country with all its wealth, I would not say poverty, and peoples and cultures necessarily need visionaries and politicians who will encourage words in consensus and compromise to find an adequate place in adopting a basic act in the country called the Constitution. No one can say there's a solution from today. This is just a chance. Let us give ourselves, voters, citizens, peoples and politicians a chance to make a deal. It's going to be a process, it can't be in a day, not a week, it's going to be in front of us for months, but it's very important that we put ourselves on a mission. We haven't had that kind of homework in 14 years. Remember that it was blasphemous to mention any change, so there were punishments for people who were thinking perhaps healthier for the future, because some powers were used, and simply people were coming to the wall that made it impossible for them to function, any functioning of the system. So I call on, appeal and please think today when we raise our hand to support this decision, to say that we are able, as people in the 21st century, to discuss the topic of good human relations and the very indication that human rights and the country in which we live want to see among the European peoples. And in order for it to really be, then all that is worth, which is the wealth of the EU, on the agenda and the smallest segment of life, and not just human rights, let us make it possible for this country as well. Then we will be responsible, then we will be for prosperity and the future and show the desire that we, not the international community, can agree on how we will live.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3976	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Mr. Rajić and get ready for Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, respecting the fact that this point must necessarily cause both debates and replicas and replicas on the replica, I will try to concentrate on the very essence of the content of this item's agenda. 36 So, a few hours later, I'm smarter for some of the information I've heard than Mr. Tihić. I'd love to hear them at the beginning when we talked about the agenda, but I basically stayed in the same position I was in a few hours ago. So I keep what I've been saying before and I'm joining Mr. Šaraba's view that in business terms this point has been imposed counter-businessally. Especially that it was imposed in a way that came in order before the point that had passed as a binding point all the procedures, so as to cancel and place it in an almost ridiculous position. But I, as much as we all came from a society that didn't know what tolerance and freedom and democracy was, I learned that it was the most unmerciful form of expression of the power of numbers and I respect that fact, but no one can hold the right to think that what I think in this home and elsewhere where I have the opportunity to speak and speak. So, I am grateful to Mr. Tihić for giving in his explanation at least two reasons that I had known before, in a sense that at least then I would understand more reasons why this point is proposed to be included in the agenda, and I would never accept and understand that these are reasons for her being put in fourth place, but I would respect the reasons for including that point. So, one of the reasons he cited is that the Peace Implementation Council, which Mr Tihić, as well as some other champions, had party participation, that it had given some impulses, that it would give a saying of some filter, gave some direction that should be held, and that is a good reason to be respected in this House. Another reason, which I also heard from Mr. Tihić, is that we started one process and that should be that extended step, after what we did around Brcko today, to move on. So, in that sense, I say, I'm going back to it, I know more than I knew at first, but I'm essentially staying on that point being imposed with the intention of canceling the point that we suggested. As regards the content of the decision itself, the objectives are defined as they are, although I think point b) and c) overlap. If in point (b) of Article 1 we say that the competences of the state and the central local levels of government, then the functionality of BiH institutions is understood. But if this is another additional expression to strengthen that position, then I can accept it that way. We, with an apology from my colleague and friend Filipović, will now speak politically as a member of the party: we from HDZ 1990 will be against this decision for two reasons. One is a principled nature, and the other is essential. The principled reason is that we are not allowed to have our own initiative, which is an older timer, which has procedurally passed all the procedures, get an indication in this home and pass as I know in advance that it will pass. So that's our reason to oppose this decision, not getting into its essence, not looking at that decision in the teeth. If it weren't for this fact, then we'd probably be thinking in some other way, at least on a principle level. But that's why we'll be against proving that we have our own political and human dignity that we want to express in this way. 37 Secondly, we will be fundamentally against this decision, because, our party, colleague Rudo Vidović and I and our colleagues in the House of Representatives have always advocated the creation of a completely new constitution because we believe that this Constitution cannot be corrected by amendments to measures to establish a functional, fair and prosperous and European BiH. So that is the fundamental reason why we will be against this decision, but that does not mean that I am immediately reading and that does not mean – because I know that there is in this House as well as in the House of Representatives that there is a quality parliamentary majority that can make the right decision, you will adopt this, there is no doubt – that does not mean that the work of that body that is formed and its results and priorities will be rejected. So, what is constructive, what goes to contribute to creating a more functional BiH state, in favour of the same position as the constituent peoples, in favour of human rights and freedoms, in favour of the European perspective of BiH, we will support it regardless of what we disagree with neither the principles nor the content of this decision. But that doesn't mean we'll reject what's positive in the work of that committee, if Bog gives, if he lives, if it's on something... But with an undiscovered dose of bitterness being taken away from us the right to explain our legitimate and legal initiative here today, and we will not give it up,... the point when it comes to the agenda, we will also talk about it, I must express my personal satisfaction that we have succeeded in two intentions. The first is, as much as Mrs. Majkić says nothing can be found in this House, there is no ban on running anything. I'm just asking why you waited so long, half a year? You could have brought this to Parliament before, and I would have been grateful for that, but here. So, we managed to push our initiative against the parties that conducted the talks in different places, we were able to push them to try to outrun us and come with this initiative here, that's our success. We, in some ways, can get wet. And, on the other hand, we are happy about that, because we have convinced both the Bosnian-Herzegovic public and others who are following outside BiH that the only legitimate place to make such large decisions as constitutional reform Parliament, which does not exclude the possibility of political entities, parties and their individuals and representatives to place their ideas... Not every time Mr. Tihić and Čović must speak in this House or, I don't know, Dodik to come here. They have their agents here who will convey these ideas. And I'm just going to look back at two or three findings, I didn't want to replicate because there's no need, this isn't a replica, this is just looking at this. Mr Ivanić has reason to point out that he is afraid to talk about constitutional reform, in this way conjectured, after turning it into a negative energy creation. I can agree with that fear. So it is very easy to turn the story of constitutional reform into a story about the rise of negative energies that will serve someone for pre-election purposes. So that fear needs to be respected. However, what will happen if we give up on this, from any process of this kind or such, to enter constitutional reforms. Will BiH, as a state, be better, will its entities, as components, be better organised and guided, will the citizens, will the BiH population be better? I don't think it's gonna get any worse. And that's why I'm giving it more than fear of growing negative political energy, giving it more than trying to talk, even in a place like this. 38 The second thing I noticed, Mr Ivanic, I hope you won't mind, but I will say it here today, and I will say it is a reflection of the political reality in BiH. I made a joke today when my colleague Filipović said something that I said. I didn't see it because of years or that you didn't understand, I remember for a long time, I live long, and I remember that 20 years before the war in this country, the picture of BiH was placed through a humorous show in the story of Momi and Uzeir. It was a paradigm. At the time, we were told there was a bipolar relationship in BiH. Unfortunately, and in Mr Ivanić's debate, I saw this bipolar relationship. The picture of BiH comes down to the relations between Bošnjak and Srbin. Unfortunately, there is no third party in your presentation either, you are talking about representatives of Bošnjak and representatives of Srbin in this House, or Parliament, although I have no reason to... nor to spare Mr. Čović, but it was likely correct to find a place for Čović as a representative of the Hrvat... He's gone, and it worries me. So, to me, this bi-cular picture, depictively humorously drawn from the story of Momi and Uzeir, was transmitted today to the bipolar relationship between Banja Luka and Sarajevo where there is no room for Hrvat. Because the Hrvat in the constitutional order of BiH today are desperate, very difficult. And that's why we don't have time to wait, Mr. Ivanić. If anyone has time to wait in this country, I can understand it, but I assure you: Hrvat, as a constituent people in BiH, do not have time to wait for some beneficial time to come. We're in a hurry to get out of a chaotic situation that we're pushed into, not by our own guilt, or at least by no greater guilt than others are guilty of. In that sense, I would like to, and I hope that Mr Ivanić will take this as a well-intentioned observation, so this is not his invention, he is only in one thinking matrix perhaps taking over the formula that BiH is talking about through, here, again, I will return to that humorous picture of Mom and Uzeir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3978	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Dr. Ivanic, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3979	I respect what Mr. Rajić was talking about, because there's truth in that. To be clear, the influence of political opportunities has been that in the last period BiH's relationship has become increasingly a Serb-Bosnian relationship, i.e. the relationship between the RS and the Federation, in the Federation dominantly because of its character, that is how it turns out. So I'm not against a third participant in these conversations, on the contrary. If I had raised the issue of BiH's territorial organisation, I would probably have said then that Mr. Čović, the biggest winner so far, is now to be honest, of the three of them, because he launched and legitimised one question that by three or four years ago was not to be mentioned at all, for which he was being replaced. This initiative is fully legalised by the issue of territorial organisation. All possible options are open. And from that point of view, even though I know Mr. Čović doesn't belong to your political option, I believe he's made a result here. He was legalizing something that was being replaced by high officials until yesterday. 39 But what I want to say is, I am for every kind of conversation, I am also for what Mrs. Majkić is talking about, but in the preparation of Parliament. And in Parliament, I'm not for experiments, I'm not for adventures. Look, guys, this is the most serious initiative ever to change the Constitution since the Dayton Agreement until today. Three of the biggest parties behind her. She won't run out of consequences. These topics have become completely legitimate topics, probably in the first round, no consensus will be reached, but they remain for the future, and playing with the Dayton Agreement, for me, I'm talking more about RS, playing with the Dayton Agreement... is an unnecessary experiment, because here everything is essentially open.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3980	Ivanić, this is not a replica, this is not a replica, so far it's been a second discussion, but let's hear the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3981	Well, I explained things to Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3982	It was a support for Mr Rajić's discussion, there was no replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3983	Well, I answered him what I thought, because he called me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3984	Is it over?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3985	Well, it is. Does that mean you're to me?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3986	No, no, if that's the end of the line, then we understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3987	I explained to Mrs. Majkić what I meant when she said I was against any debate. I didn't. But I'm against unprepared debates. And I intend to, you can get angry or not, replicate whenever someone says something that I disagree with.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3988	No hard feelings.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3989	Because I think it's in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3990	But make it a replica when you answer the line. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3991	Well, the other thing is if you expect me to spit on someone. I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3992	No, no, I don't mean that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3993	On the contrary, I'll just say, explain or say what I disagree with, those were two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3994	If you're done with the replica, I'd like to give my word to Mr. Ljubičić, and get ready for Mr. Zrna.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3995	Mr. Chairman, thank you. My colleagues and colleagues from the House, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, representatives of information funds, representatives of the international community, I welcome you all. I hope, Chairman, it's not too late to congratulate you on taking office as chairman of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3996	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3997	And I want you to have as few problems as possible in your work and in your session management.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3998	This isn't a problem today either.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u3999	Now let me get back to this agenda point. I agree with all the debaters who have commented on all these points proposed in this decision concerning the accession of the BiH Constitution. I agree in that part that this is about very difficult, difficult issues that are likely to be discussed, as Mr. Tihić said, going very hard, and we all know that from experience so far. There are questions here, probably, that will be easier to negotiate. Mr Ivanic comes out, I just wanted to comment on his discussion. In part, I agree, so I accept and try to understand, in a certain way, and the comment and discussion of Mr Ivanić as an experienced politician, as a man who has performed many and significant functions in BiH, means a man who has participated in many, so far, discussions on many issues, so here are these issues, but remains a reserve on all this. 41 But now I will return partly to the discussion of Mr. Tihić. I think your discussion, Mr. Tihić, is very or, rather, tolerated enough, I think BiH is as it is and I think that you, as the first man of the SDA, have found with your discussion of the conversators in the two other people you have spoken to so far, in Mr. Čović and Mr. Dodik. And I think those conversations should continue. I hope that just your conversations, meaning your arrangements, means that your talks will be joined by other people, meaning from other parties, from other parties, because we have had opportunities and today here we are talking when we spoke and adopted this amendment concerning the amendment of the Constitution, means about the Brcko District, that this is the right way, means how to work, how to talk and how to negotiate in BiH. So with this discussion of mine, I'm supporting your address today. So I support Mr. Čović as well, means as leader and first man to HDZ BiH, certainly also to my president, means to Mr. Dodik, the president of the SNSD. We need to continue with these conversations. I fully agree that through these conversations, probably, we'll be able to solve a part of this, I understand the meaning and part of that address. We will probably come up with some questions that we may not be able to agree on right now, but I accept that all these issues are open and there is no reason, so here I am also making some kind of comment... there are no questions in BiH that we do not need to talk about. What hasn't been done so far, it's been a while, but it's one experience, too, so here's where we should have talked maybe before, maybe there weren't enough conditions to talk about it. Time has done its part that we are in a situation now, in a position to discuss all the issues, and the easy ones, and the very difficult issues, and all of them are important to BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4000	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4001	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find it difficult otherwise to accept in Parliament any position which a priority is established, because I think that each a priority opinion implies a concrete wall for all. I am trying to consider an initiative that is formally defined here by the form of a decision, and it involves the process of finding a solution for BiH's new constitutional configuration. I absolutely accept the position of fellow Rajić on our political reality, extending it to our society reality, to our economic reality, and to our political needs, to our social needs and to our economic needs. And in the context of that, the question is clear, I think the general answer is that something needs to be changed and something needs to be changed. And the Priory here is not told how long one process will last, what it will produce, whether it will produce anything, what it will produce, how it will take place. But the initiative as an initiative, which, by making and adopting this decision, becomes a simple content, I would really be against it if 42 would rule out anyone or anything, if I excluded any and any opinion, if I excluded anyone's or any proposal. Therefore, let's not a priority from a process that follows to be excluded or instead of those that we are already trying to exclude as leaders are political, although I don't like this word political leader, but here it is settled, so this process and what is going to happen here must not be amnesty and disfellowshipped, but I don't mean three, I mean all the political leaders in this country, or those political leaders who want to be. If they want to be, then they have to take responsibility for what they are, because only this way can be a political leader, not a political dance that means nothing, means taking responsibility. Therefore, when we talk about the process, about the start of the process where we will transfer the decision to the parliamentary working body, and it will determine, according to its own capacity, how the process will continue. As long as it is in the capacity to respond to the challenges that are set here and that are here, let's, in one part, diagnosed, congruently meaning that diagnosis in the process will be included anyone who wants to help the process. Not to mention experts, not to mention NGOs and government organizations, not to mention all well-intentioned but above all professional, educated and professional... people to participate in this process. And let's not attack what's here is. This is simply a template of what is objectively a problem and is a disturbance in the constitutional arrangement, if we can even talk about it at this point, the constitutional arrangement of this country. And because of that, I am for the process, I am that from a dead end is launched by not prejudicing anything, raises a fundamental question in this country, and that is the question of the Constitution, because it definitely has to answer the questions that we have asked here and the problems that we all feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4002	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Vidović, let Mr. Neimarlija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4003	Thank you, Mr. President. I will partly refer to the discussion of the president of the Croatian People's Club in this home, Mr. Zrn, and part of what the co-chair Mrs. Majkić said when they said this was a good initiative and that here all the political parties should gather around this initiative. As far as I can tell, this is a decision, and it's not an initiative. We have proposed this initiative and this is a very important and difficult decision in the way I read it. So, I will also agree with the conclusion that the decision is a normative act, however, in substance what it regulates within itself and what weight it carries, I think we should all be aware of what it actually contains in itself and what the proposal's intention is in this way, so, and define the point of the agenda and without consensus, broad consensus, so political parties as needed for amandman I. for the Brcko District to enter into the procedure and, behold, by simple majority, as they make decisions, define in some way the principles of the Constitution. I would not agree that in substance this decision gives room for those who are both for the new constitution and for those who are for amendments. Maybe, I'm not a lawyer, maybe the lawyers read it differently 43, but what I am, in principle, representing the order of the Croatian people, which Mr Rajić was talking about, alone against this decision, for two reasons actually. The first reason is indeed with the goal of making our contribution, so for this kind of decision, a broader consensus should be made, so, and I'm not going to talk about it much, he's gone. So, in this situation, I'm behind, so that's the first reason I'm against it. The second reason is, you will all agree, that the forced decision is put on the agenda and here we are calling on everyone to support it as it is, and it has a substantial need to be clarified, therefore also between representatives of political parties, and especially in the respective committees that should treat this matter before it comes to a decision in the House, so I mean the Constitutional Commission. And, this article, to comment on Article 2 of this decision, that, in some ways, it is compatible with the proposal of our initiative that constitutional committees and the College of the House should, in some ways, establish a proposal for a working group for the creation of the BiH Constitution and deliver it to their homes for adoption. That would be the first step. And this working group (of course, which political party representatives) will certainly have enough space in that period to consult with political leaders who should, in some ways, make their contribution similar to that of the Brcko District. Ideal solutions are real solutions, I agree, but realistically, here's what started to talk, and that's why I'm taking part in the debate, but for the first time in the House of Nations, in this way, we don't put one decision in a position to take or leave, here, it can in some way shut down, and it would actually rule out the much wider consensus that is needed for a conversation of this type. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Professor Naimarli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4005	The only principle that ensures progress is the principle that anything is possible, that nothing is impossible. So I think that it can be applied to a certain extent to social life, and also to political life, and so I think that on our occasions it's possible and a lot of things that don't seem quite possible at this point. I believe it makes sense, and she, let's be realistic, let's demand the impossible. And, in that sense, I would just like to say a few words about this initiative with a later accession of one of the reasons why I will be restrained in the plea, not wanting to repeat the debate on the agenda. I am holding... on the Constitutional Legal Commission I supported this initiative by my colleagues Rajić and Vidović as well as the conditional announcement of this initiative by my colleague Tihić, because I am a priority for all reservations towards the apriorisms of each kind, for every kind of thematicization of constitutional issues within Parliament. In doing so, I do not only think of Parliament as the most legislative body, but I think of Parliament as the most representative body, i.e. a body that represents, in fact, representative democracy, as the most significant institution of representative democracy, rather than a fictitious, not a simulated democracy. 44 How, in the end, we had and who had certain successes but who had failed, among other things, one of the important reasons is that its representatives simply ignored, denied and disputed the value of another and different opinions, even when the other, who represents a different opinion, is wrong. There is a value and a wrong opinion, and I express all of this as reasons why my support for every initiative to discuss constitutional issues with us and its introduction to Parliament, and I strongly respect most of the discussions that have been heard here and which commits to one reasonable caution. However, I have in mind, in fact, the complexity of this problem and the need for us in Parliament to begin to cultivate even something that is meant at first sight, which is an elemental constitutional culture. We lack constitutional culture, we miss it, and that is one of the reasons why we have a lot of these problems, we miss it and, among other things, that testifys and the content of this template which has confirmed to me with its own discussion right at the beginning and colleague Ivanić, when, quite understandablely to me, he distinguished the first point a) and the other points b), c), d) and e) in terms of the acceptability of these other points. These other points speak of something that is our need or, I would say before that, our right, the right of BiH citizens, the right of political parties, the right of this Parliament. Therefore, the right to adopt and amend the Constitution or to adopt a new constitution. As much as it takes, you can talk about it. Now, the third is how realistic that possibility is or how unable we are to change the Constitution and bring it, and that's what we're talking about. However, points (b), (c), (d) and (e) belong to this area of opportunity and will, i.e. to agreeing with a lot of political will. In doing so, I am not only thinking of three, which we here legally and legitimately represent, I mean some other will, the will of the citizens of BiH, the will of the international community and these political wills, which should be harmonised to adopt or change, more seriously and radically, the Constitution. However, as far as the first point is concerned, it is not a matter of political will, it is not a matter of political agreement, it is neither a need nor a possibility, it actually belongs to the field of our obligations. It was a constitutional obligation. Fifteen years ago, we didn't carry out our constitutional obligation. And here I am, expressing, for my part, the suggestion that whatever the fate of the proposal for this decision is with all its potential and openness and potential possibility of understanding them in a way that has already been set out for some possible solutions to be subjected to this very important distinction. Chuck, I'd say a significant distinction. Because this is about respecting the Constitution, or respecting the highest legislative act, which I have in mind is the fact that BiH's constitution, not Annex IV of the Dayton Constitution, but the Dayton Peace Agreement as a whole. And I believe that the Dayton Peace Agreement is a dynamic text whose all and constitutionally-lawful, even, actually constitutional possibilities have not been fully used, precisely in terms of the fact that the Dayton Agreement has not been fully implemented. And so, let's say, I hold that the process needs to be launched, it needs to find an appropriate form for this process of thematicising constitutional issues with us, which, I think, could go right through the the thematicisation of the problem of the constitutional culture of the citizens of BiH, but should indeed bear in mind that any debate on the new constitution or new important radical solutions should precede our implementation of the constitutional obligation that we took and which was taken over 14 years ago. 45 And I will end up, with the experience that I have with the proper and this debate today and what I wanted to say about things that are both complex and very much to talk about, unfortunately, I was prevented from attending the Sarajevo debate on the Brcko amendment, I was in Mostar and together with colleagues from both, in fact, from our commission and from the House of Representatives, I was convinced that it was very simple in public debates and therefore in such forums very simple, if there is good will, to distinguish political, political and scientific approach to this issue. I believe in the possibility of our agreement here on the objectives and the harmonisation of our common will and the objectives, and also on the basic means that will involve time, not today, but for some time at least clearly distinguishing what politics is in dealing with this topic and what threatens us then and when we are threatened with politicizing such important issues, which is political and what is professional scientific. I don't have to, of course, point out the importance of this expert, among other things, I mention it also because the fact that the matter of our Constitution is not really just our thing, that it involves respect for both other and political wills, but also international, let's say, constitutional standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4006	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. I've exhausted the list of persons registered for discussion. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? No one. I'm closing the debate. We will approach the statement on the proposed decision. I'm asking, who's in favour of the proposed decision? That's nine "for", with the required entity majority. Who Is “against ”? Four. Are There “Restraints ”? Two. I konstatirati that the decision to join the BiH Constitution has been adopted. We're going to move to point 5, that's ad. 5. Report by the College Committee on the Effort of Consent on the Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance The bill of law is in the first reading. Remember last time we didn't have the necessary entity majority. Please, we'll plead, don't leave the hall now. We'll wait for these two MPs to return, and we'll keep working. No, we won't leave, I'll interrupt the session for today if we play. Please don't go out. Jović, don't go out, Tihić will be back very soon. I didn't take a break. _________(?) The older man has needs. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here we are today in front of a legal project that has been in the process of adoption in this House for a very long time and after a long discussion, the committee responsible – the Council of Ministers, was in parliamentary procedure and today we are considering it here in the first reading. 48 I will give support to this law for its adoption at this stage because it is the jurisdiction that EUFOR now has. So, by adopting this legislation, certainly after an amendment phase in which I suppose there will be a lot of amendments, BiH will take over one of the powers that EUFOR has so far and thus create conditions for an international institution located in BiH to remain unnecessary, because this is the last jurisdiction that EUFOR has at this time. It's a fundamental reason and a principled view of why I'm going to give support to this law. I believe and believe that he has many shortcomings, because it is one of the main reasons why he has been considered in front of this home's competent committee for this long, or before the relevant Joint Defence and Security Commission. So I support the law at this stage. Repeatedly, I expect that after the amendment phase and a large number of amendments, which must surely be corrected in order to correct certain shortcomings that exist in this law, to adopt this law and thus create conditions to take over the authority now exercised by international forces in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4013	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4014	So this is the law that's been retreating like a tape for a long time. So he arrived in parliamentary procedure 9. 4. In 2008, today is 26. Three, right. Several times, I think he's been returned from the House of Representatives five or six times, and I'm not saying why he passed last time. But here, I'll give you my own reasons, so judge yourself whether you should or should not support a law like this. The basic version of this bill submitted by the Ministry of Security contains 21 members. Four international organisations, EUFOR, OHR, OSCE, UNDP, wanted to fix one bad law, submitted 13 amendments, so at a time when we need to discuss principles, directly on the Commission, means not the Ministry of Security but directly on the Commission, which changes almost 50% of the proposed law in an attempt to fix it. At that time, when it happened, we proposed to the Ministry to withdraw the law, that these amendments, which these four international organisations had submitted, had been involved in the proposed text, to approach the agreement as some ministers in the Council of Ministers have agreed, and then came to Parliament without problems and without trying to bring these laws down and failed, because we had no understanding of the Ministry of Security for such an act. So then we started driving the law from the House of Representatives back to the Commission, who knows what, five or six times. And the fact is that what Mr. Šaraba says is an attempt to transfer competences from EUFOR to local authorities, but the trouble is that the Ministry of Security has realised that this is an opportunity to transfer the entity's original jurisdiction, so the RS MUP, to BiH level. That's the only one... Mr. Šarab, so the original jurisdiction of the entity is transferred to BiH level, why we don't have consent. 49 And to explain the essence of this problem. Article 10 of this law, which you have in front of you, says that 'the Ministry of Security alone' and, says, 'or at the proposal of entity interior ministries', but this 'own-minded' is a key word, 'it can prohibit the entire movement of weapons at a certain time, in a whole or in a certain area of BiH." So there is no arms traffic for the needs of the RS MUP. When the Ministry of Security says, he, and the point. This means that this original jurisdiction from the RS MUP should be transferred to the Ministry of Security, in relation to the official weapons used for the needs of the RS MUP, which cannot be accepted on our part. Another problem that is evident here: The BiH Shooting Union is seeking exemption for sports weapons and I would remind you that by Directive 91/477 of the EU of 18. Six. In 1991, the European Commission excluded sports weapons from provisions relating to military weapons and equipment and allowed the movement of its sports weapons within Member States without any administrative barriers. So, and that's what people were looking for, don't harass us so I don't know what kind of consent we're looking for to get to it. In order for us to accept such a bill, meaning that many members are directly contrary to the basic principles on which the law rests, we ask that such adjustments be once again carried out and that... especially in order to achieve a consensus with regard to Articles 10 and 15 of the RS MUP. So, I call on you not to support this bad law and force the Ministry of Security to be serious about most of the laws that come from this ministry and which, as a rule, cannot be adopted here, because they do not have the necessary quality, and the proposals of international organisations that are trying to save the matter at the last minute and to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4015	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? Replica, Šaraba, then Mr. Zrno from the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I agree with Mrs. Majkić in most of her discussion about the text of this law, but what to do. So we have for this year, mentioned by Mrs. Majkić, the law was constantly on the route of the House of Representatives – Commission – Ministry, and nothing. So, how do you change it? Only in the amendment phase. Here, I'll raise both hands for these changes you've been talking about, but we can't do it without the amendment phase. Now, that's what we need. So, change two-thirds of this law and more, but eventually create conditions for EUFOR to go, because this is his jurisdiction. And people in EUFOR tell us themselves: we cannot leave until you carry out the transfer of this jurisdiction and until you release us from this job and take it from you. I agree with this part that there is a part in this law that takes away entity jurisdiction. And I'm going to vote for it once and for all, but we can't do it without amending the laws that 50 should do without the amendment phase. And like this, waiting until someone changes the law, apparently the Ministry of Security won't, here's the minister not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4017	Thank you very much. Are these the discussions you're looking for, discussions? Before that, Mr. Zno came forward, so, then the Koprivica, then the replica... Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4018	Here, I will briefly replicate again to Mr. Šarab about this comment he makes in the sense that he will support any amendments to the existing text of the law if it is about amending two-thirds of the laws that are in the procedure under the Unique Rules for the Making of Legislative Rules. It is clear that a new act needs to be approached, and I do not think that we can talk about such amendments in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4019	Thank you very much. Second time replica, Mr. Šaraba. And forget, there are no more replicas on the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4020	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, here comes Mr. Korpivic all the time, a little bit, so she wants to replicate with me through Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Koprivic, so no change can be made if people won't. What do we do? Here, the people of the Ministry of Security have been waiting for a year, and we're all waiting for them together in the Commission. Here, Mr. Zrn, we've waited five times, we've returned, so people won't, so they won't. What do we do? So the only way is to take, change, insert amendments and vote for them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4021	We understand. Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Mr. Zno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4022	Okay, I'd just like to say a few words. This law, i.e. the bill of law, has really tired us all. Six, seven times he was on the appropriate committee and there was indeed a transfer of these several sheets of paper from the House of Representatives to the Commission and vice versa. I'd just like to point out that the mouth here is a matter of last jurisdiction, here's what it means, when we take charge of arms and military equipment transport, we've taken over the last jurisdiction. I don't now enter into the measure of authority or jurisdiction, but I think, regardless of the 51 large number of paper that binds to this law, that here are almost two-thirds of the changes, but not literally two-thirds of the changes, this is about three-four, or two-three fundamental changes. The rest are mostly the technical repairs of this law. I also think... that simply by returning, in this situation, by returning this to the Council of Ministers, and indirectly returning this to the Ministry of Security, we are really not going to solve the problem much longer. But that's why I really think, what my colleague Šaraba said, that we can solve this problem ourselves at the second amendment stage. And it's never too late, it's never too late, because there's a possibility, my people, this law stops in phase two. What counterpart Šaraba proposes, he only suggests that we give a chance, do what we are here for, take responsibility for EUFOR and release EUFOR from its last official tasks in BiH. So I ask you, let's accept this first reading, open the amendment phase and change what needs to be changed. And if you want to break this law, we're going to tear it down in another reading, as if that's the problem. That's the only thing that's not the problem. This now, based on what I just said, and Priory, let's not refuse anything but priors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4023	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4024	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, since it's about the law... on the principles of this law, he is absolutely rightŠaraba when he says that this jurisdiction is in accordance with aneks i (a) of the Military Spectrum Agreement – and this is Article 9(c) – which speaks and prescribes that this jurisdiction is, in the hands of, at the time of signing the agreement, the IFOR, then SFOR, and then here is EUFOR in a kind of legal sequence. [[no microphone turned on]] And this is not about the transfer of competence from entity to state, but about the transfer of competence from international military forces to BiH institutions. When it comes to certain restrictions on which colleagues have spoken regarding the Armed Forces or police bodies in BiH, I call on all colleagues to look at Article 2 of this law, which prescribes that the provisions of this law do not apply to the movement of weapons within the Armed Forces of BiH and police authorities in BiH, as well as to natural persons who have been issued weapons documents. The type of weapons and ammunition to be treated by this law is also referred to in Article 3 and later when it comes to definitions, where it is prescribed and said that weapons, ammunition and parts of weapons and ammunition from the list of arms and military equipment referred to in Article 4(2) which prescribes the obligation to make that list only. Therefore, for the regular work and activities of the BiH Armed Forces and police bodies in BiH, this law will not be an obstacle or an obstacle. That's it, thank you. We will, of course, uphold this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4025	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mrs. Majkić. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4026	When we tried to bring the principles into line for this law to pass, there were two key amendments that actually go into the essence of the law. The first amendment that could not agree, meaning for which the Ministry could never give you consent, is that the Ministry of Security, says, "On the proposal of the entity interior ministries, or the Brcko District police," means 'and independently it can prohibit the movement of weapons in the entire BiH area at a certain time." It also means the movement of police forces and, with the purchase of police weapons, the ban on movement has nothing to do with the security ministry's decision. That shouldn't have happened by now and it's a transfer of jurisdiction. The second thing, he says, "The Ministry of Security organises and coordinates the activities of the entity interior ministries and the Brcko District police to achieve and implement this law and it is competent." So the Ministry of Security decides on how this law will be handled. So the automatic MUP RS doesn't have any jurisdiction over this anymore. So it will decide when to which territory and decision it will make. It can't be accepted from our side, that provision. So everyone votes for what his conscience is and how he can. So let's not convince ourselves of that. For us, it's enough for those two amendments that we haven't been able to agree on, so to accept it, and they go into it alone... enough that we don't support this law, the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4027	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4028	This, Mrs. Dušanka, you were just saying, this is a second-stage story. And we cannot open the story of the amendments at the stage when we have the first reading in the BiH Parliament. So it's not rejected that you mean, let's say, fictitically under the amendments, it will come after today's vote on amendments. Well, then we'll set ourselves up according to that. And if that doesn't go away, then legitimately explain it and then the law will fall. It won't just have an entity majority. So it's simple. That's why I'm saying, this is about a chance to bring him into phase two. So if it can't pass, thank Bog, it can't pass, then we will, and so on, and with and without you, without us going where it came from, it will go to the Council of Ministers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4029	Thank you very much. You used two replicas, Mr. Šarab. Does anyone else need a discussion? Doesn't anyone want any more discussion? I'm closing the debate. 53 We move on to a plea. So we're pleading on... principles and it's about first reading. Who is "for" this bill? Does anyone have “against ”? Four. So this bill didn't go through, it fell to principles. We're going to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers You've received this proposal, you've received a Joint Commission report that has accepted the principles. My secretary warns me I needed another time. We had four, two-thirds majority against in the first vote. So we don't have to repeat the second round. If you think you should, let me know. So we're done with that point. The law fell in the first reading, before. So you also received a report from the relevant committee that accepted the principles. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4031	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Minister Nović, who has managed to be with us at this session and to wait and wait for this item of the agenda that is in the jurisdiction of this ministry that he is headed. It is known to all of us that the issue of BiH citizenship is a long open issue. And, unfortunately, to that question, here I am speaking for myself, it seems to me that so far no one has given the right answer. The issue of citizens' audit based on the decision on naturalisation is a sensitive issue. The question that we talked about in public and talked about in various ways and we could and we had the opportunity to hear and hear all sorts of stories that I wouldn't be opening up here today, but I just want to mention it. It is also a very responsible job that needs to be completed in a responsible way, as it must be a burden for BiH in the process of further Euro-Atlantic integration. I think we all know that. We also know that so far this job has been done by the Commission and I want this opportunity to point out my personal opinion and I think that this committee, what it has done so far, has done professionally, but we cannot escape from one data that there is still quite a lot and many of these subjects that are subject to the revision process. We see from this material that it's 54 in some 23 thousand and 440 and another object, which means it's still a very big and big deal, which means what we have to do. And I personally support the proposed amendments to further work under the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Since it's a very big job, here's what I'm going to say, and here's the minister, so if there's a need, I'm more willing to give support to the minister and to this ministry in terms of capacitating the additional or creating the additional necessary conditions to complete this job as soon as possible. On behalf of the club, I can say that we are going to support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4032	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4033	Thank you very much. I have a proposal and a need as well as an obligation to declare as chairman of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the Parliamentary Assembly that, with the adoption and adoption of the decision, we have been delivered to all the representatives of the Opinion in which we have adopted the principles of the proposed law with nine votes "for" and one vote "against". But the integral part of that opinion is two conclusions. In this regard, the Council of Ministers undertakes to honour the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly (meaning, one and the other home, at separate sessions from 22/10 and 1412 last year), insisting that members of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in BiH and the Secretariat of the Commission shall be paid a fine in the amount of the Council of Ministers' Decision. The second conclusion is that in Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH lays down a provision obliging the Ministry of... business to provide at least once a year to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a report on the work, i.e. on the audit carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4034	Thank you very much. Anyone else need a word? Mr. Rančić, then Koprivica. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4035	... Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[no microphone turned on]] So, since it's about the law in first reading, I support the principles of this law... and I support... by the Resolute Ministry since it's... I support this too... 55 broadly, otherwise, the ministry's obligation, so on the whole of its work... as a segment relating to these amendments and amendments to the law and regarding the revision... of a first-degree decision against which no appeal is allowed and against which administrative dispute can be conducted. I want to ask all of us and to clarify, this is the time, this is the reading of the law, the first reading of the law: is it the urgency that, with a first degree decision, citizenship is taken away without giving the right to appeal to strangers, which is otherwise the rule of law and in the protection of human rights and freedoms? So in every procedure, which is the basic rule, the citizen has the right to appeal. So this second-degree procedure is a rule, and this is an exception that can eventually be applied and I know there are such cases. So let's think about it, get an answer, so of course we'll know how to behave and after adoption in the first reading for a possible amendment phase. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4036	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4037	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I, too, support the principles of this law, the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship of BiH and all that we have heard from the predecessors, so that I would only briefly comment on this first conclusion made by the Commission, i.e. in the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, because I am a member of this Commission and, of course, I have participated in making such a conclusion. If you remember, somewhere at the end of last year, we held a plenary session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, where I asked the Council of Ministers in that part: 'When and how will the compensation be paid to members of the Commission for the revision of the allocated citizenship to foreign citizens in BiH?', and at that session we received a reply from the Council of Ministers Chairmans that it was a job that the members of this committee carried out in their regular working hours, and that there was no single reason why a special decision would be taken and the funds would be paid past, so, because all the jobs that were done in their regular jobs, or working hours. So, knowing the meaning on the one hand for this Commission decision, and knowing this explanation from the Council of Ministers, I wonder now how and in what way in this situation and what conclusion we are actually going to make on this issue, when it comes to paying the members of the Commission, given such a reasoning from the Council of Ministers. I just wanted to make a quick comment. I don't have anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4038	Thank you very much. In that sense, we have a proposal. So two conclusions. One of them refers to payment and refers to the Joint Commission for Human Rights. He has a need and is asking for the word of Minister Nović. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4039	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable delegates, on compensation, today, a spectrum of all committees and bodies formed by the Council of Ministers has been discussed at the Council of Ministers, and it is the conclusion that by the next session of the Council of Ministers, not the decisions but the criteria for each of the committees. And I expect that the next 10 to 15 days will be a unique solution, given that the different approaches of individuals and individual committees, and that some of the commissions are wrongly paid by the number of cases, some of the commissions per month, some of the work done, etc., and the Council of Ministers wants to resolve it in a unique manner and we expect that the next seven to ten days, at least, we expect that this issue will be completed. I believe that in the amendment phase, if there are any proposals, we will have the opportunity to discuss and bring this law into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4040	Thank you very much. Dake, the source of this is that we'll decide on these fees for their work later. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else in need? Mr. Rančić. Here you go. Tell me exactly what provision and why.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4041	I'll make it clear, I don't have to quote, it's not about the replica. So, I think we should stick to the agenda, and it says, "The amendment law and the additions of the Law on Citizenship of BiH (first reading)." I believe that outside the agenda, there is a decision on compensation to the Commission that has done this, which has expired, and that we do not need to make a statement on this. If and when a full report of this commission comes about their work and touches it, and before possibly the Council of Ministers decides, perhaps then, and now I ask that we make a statement about the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4042	Thank you very much. So, I need to correct this above quote. We have also received the opinion given to us by the Joint Commission for Human Rights... because everything else is human rights and we have shortened, therefore the name of this committee, will be called only the Joint Commission for Human Rights, which as a relevant joint commission discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Principles. Discussing the principles, they therefore accepted the principles, and at the same time two conclusions. One refers to a fee not paid to people working on this job, and the other refers to a report on their work being conducted regularly by the restoring ministry. As we have now heard what the Council of Ministers discussed from the Honorable Minister Nović, so we do not have to rush to decide on a proposal on this point of compensation, 57 we will wait to resolve it in the Council of Ministers, but quite justifiably Mr Koprivica raised the issue because it was contained in the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, which is obliged to inform both this House and the House of Representatives. And they did it with this act. That's why I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Anybody else want a word? A Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4043	Dear Chairman, I have only suggested, which I am entitled to, I know that the Commission report has come, and here we have commented on a colleague to me and I, and I have not slowed it down. I suggested we make a statement about the law, not those two conclusions. And to make a little joke, you said the Joint Committee on Human Rights would just call it that. We worked together yesterday, and we agreed that it might be the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4044	Yes, so that's what we're talking about in our ad hoc commission, so we're going to have a debate on this house as well as on the House of Representatives. I didn't say anything else but after, if you can, what Mr. Nović said, I realized his message that we are not pleading today on these fees and I had no intention of putting it on the plea. So if no one wants to discuss the principles anymore, I'll conclude the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the first reading. Who's "for"? I'm being unanimous. No "against", no "restraints". Thank you very much. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. A statement by the House on Envoys' Initiative by Božo Rajić and Rude Vidović to form a working group to draw up the text of the new BiH constitution. You've got the Initiative. Be patient, Mr. Rajić, you'll get your word. You have received the initiative of two of our representatives to form a task force to draw up the text of the new BiH Constitution. The College of the People's House discussed the initiative that first arrived to the House of Peoples, the College of the House of Nations, sent it to the Rules of Procedure, to the Constitutional Commission, which had a debate and decided: without a decision to forward it to the House for a statement. I am now opening the debate and here I am giving my word to Mr Rajić, who first answered the word. 58 here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4046	Mr. Chairman, I, if I knew how to relax this situation, especially on the relationship between the two of us, I would do it, but I don't know, I admit I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4047	That's what you and I are gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4048	Okay. But you and your colleagues and colleagues who listen to me and the others, I'd like to ask for patience in this wheel, and the rest of you won't hear from me anymore, and I owe this one. First because I am one of the motions of the Initiative, secondly, because I need to explain to those who are interested in what motives were when we chose to launch this initiative. But before that, I must say that in his debate Professor Neimarlija systematized three reasons why we should even talk about this topic, therefore constitutional changes, and he wonderfully divided it into three groups. And we had them, we didn't exactly call them like he said. One is a commitment, the other is a need and the third is an assessment of the possibility, if we don't try, we don't know if we can. So, Professor Neimarlija, thank you, here's the incentive for this to be your talk about it. In a way, to shape what motivated us to launch this initiative. So, we are like the initiators of the initiative, representatives of the HDZ 1990s in both homes, deeply convinced that the current constitutional order of BiH is the main source of all the trouble in this country. He is therefore dysfunctional, unfair, asymmetrical, overpriced, overburdened, blocked. We are convinced that with such constitutional order there is no intervention that will move this country forward. And, therefore, we have advocated, so in that belief, there is a basis on which we require the adoption of a new constitution, a whole constitution, because we do not think that any cosmetic interventions and partial intrusions in BiH's constitutional reform can change the situation significantly. So that was the basic motive. And the second motive was, because we not only say that, not only do we think, we argue, and here I am speaking as a representative at the Club of the Croatian People of BiH, we argue that the Croatian people are fully in an unequal constitutional position compared to the other two peoples in BiH and we do not have time, as a people, for some long wait and experiment. That's another reason. Unfortunately, our initiative is well related in the processes that took place at today's session, I will no longer return to them, but I would like to remind you that yesterday, considering this initiative by our colleagues in the House of Representatives, has revealed one truth that we know, which many in this country do not want to admit. And now I'm going to go back to something that will be a reminder, a Marxist debate, a breakdown of quantity and quality. So, we as a people, Hrvat in BiH, have neither a quantity nor a quality that we can fight for an equal position with the other two peoples. The other two nations are more numerous and have a quantity. Constitutional solutions through entity voting have provided themselves with quality, where even a number is no longer important. And then yesterday we had a situation that very elastically shows what an unfair 59 solution means. You have more than two-thirds of the MPs in the House of Representatives who support this initiative, but there is an entity voting instrument that represents an instrument of effective veto that says no. Now imagine, all the solutions to the constitutional reform of any country and ours are starting from the two-thirds majority being enough in the House of Representatives for this issue to be absorbed, in our case it has proved that not even three-quarters, and not even four-fifths will be enough to pass, because there is a veto instrument. So that's one third reason why we thought we had to go to full constitutional reform and that without it any cosmetic intervention, advocating economic growth, advocating economic reforms, is actually... the eyes of those who have been disfigured. Well, good. It's not snowing to kill the world. It's snowing every beast to show its mark. And this story about our initiative has shown some truth, it will still show. We argue that Parliament is the only place to decide on such important issues for the formation of the state, for its internal structure, for the position of the people and for the position of the citizens. Every other place is improvisation, and we've also opposed Prud, not because we're vain, because we're vain, that we're gone, and envy someone, but because we don't think it's a serious topic in the pubs. We thought we should go back to Parliament. And, I said, today, we may have contributed to this decision, which today was made with all its contradictions, which contains within it – back to Parliament. We also think, I personally think, that we've become too... and dependent on international factors here, which I express my gratitude for everything they've done well, but I really don't think they have to lead us any further as children by the hands. I think we need to get back to our own senses and our own responsibilities. We are not the people who fell from the branch, we are the people who live in civilization, in the European environment from their beginning, to the arrival of these places. And, in some special circumstances of the time of war, the tragedy we've had, every help the world has given us deserves our respect and gratitude but deserves our self-respect to finally return to ourselves. And in that sense, we have advocated that we should rely on our own mind, but also on our own responsibility. We think that the self-sustainability of BiH that we all talk about, its economic prosperity, the equality of citizens and peoples in BiH cannot be achieved in this constitutional order on its patching amendments. We are too deeply convinced that without a new constitution, a new approach, which will be just, European, which will be a modern constitution cannot be a solution. But other people think differently, and that's what's going to happen. We represent the Croatian people here, and there is now no difference between me and Mr Filipović, who today may have been artificially created. We represent the same interest, we are deeply aware that our people cannot endure, for the longer term, the injustice that was established for them in the constitutional order of BiH, which was then absolutely reflected in every area. The Hrvat are unfortunately the fewest, the most displaced, the least they've come back and gone the most. If someone were interested in these truths, if someone were really concerned about the fate of BiH, then they would have to deal with this data. That's why we're in a hurry as much as anyone's waiting for. We will probably also go through these procedures – so this one will not go through, we know it, this initiative will end up in our speech, it will go into the procedure that was adopted before, but also one and the other procedure – and this one that has passed as it did not, and the one that passed that will show, will reveal to us some truths about ourselves that we know, but we are afraid to admit them. It will prove whether we can step in the direction of establishing an honest state of BiH, that in that country everyone is equally tight or equally comfortable. If it turns out we can't, I assure you, let's not let those who think that waiting for it solve it all, someone from the international community who is sponsoring this project, who is a moral debtor to do this to 60 ends, to the end, will have to react. I would like all those who doubt these words to remember what I said today. Once it turns out that we cannot step forward towards the fair European modern structure of BiH and its perspective, be sure someone will find a way to intervene here, bring us to reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4049	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mr. Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4050	Thank you, Mr. President. To procedurally bring this initiative to an end, here is Mr. Rajić talking a lot about it, I feel the need, as one of the co-proposers of this initiative, to also say a few words, not repeating what Mr. Rajić was saying, and I would say hello to the procedurally correct path. So, we have been advocates of ideas and we have implemented it in accordance with the business provision to start openly discussing constitutional changes, with the aim of being the right place in Parliament, without contesting the talks outside this parliament, but ultimately here will be decisions. Much of what Mr Rajić said about motives, but what I procedurally welcome as the right path, so after we refer the initiative to the College of the House and the debate in the College of the House, the initiative is presented and discussed on the Constitutional Commission and today it is before the House at the hearing. I hope our initiative gets support. Why? Because I think and I am convinced that this is actually the right way to, excuse us, to gather together both the position and the opposition, including the non-governmental sector, including experts, which Professor Neimarli spoke of, who spoke their opinion in public debates when we discussed only the amendment of an article of the BiH Constitution, and believing that this would bring together and interest those experts, is whether, if they were proposed and voted in the working group to make their contribution. And in that sense, here, I think that this way is enough space for our initiative to be supported and to gather together and, of course, call on whether, both colleagues and colleagues, regardless of this decision from earlier on, the decision to join the amendments to the BiH Constitution, because it can in some way be compatible under point 2 of this decision, because the under-election decision also implies the establishment of a working commission, so here in this sense I expect, of course, the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Mr. Šaraba. Here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4052	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as in this previous case, i.e. the item of agenda number 4, which spoke of a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution, I will also give my opinion on this initiative of distinguished colleagues concerning the making of a new constitution. Three basic reasons why I can't accept this initiative and I'll be very brief. So, I don't think this initiative makes sense to be considered in this house because this initiative was rejected in the House of Representatives. So what was rejected in the House of Representatives, after not accepting, makes no sense to consider in this house, and that's one reason. The second reason is that we're talking about making a new constitution here. I am absolutely against the need not to make a new constitution, but to make changes to the existing Constitution through the amendment phase, and gradually. Of those solutions, as the esteemed colleague Neimarlija said, who are truly painless and who we should have done some time ago to certain large solutions that will be found. And the third reason is that this is how this is proposed against this declaration adopted by the National Assembly, because this paper is, gentlemen, binding for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4053	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4054	I must admit that I am reluctant to report, but I do need to react to the re-ment of the Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by my colleague Šaraba. Because also the Declaration, or I don't know enough of the Declaration to judge about it, but what preceded the Declaration and its media interpretation that has been confirmed here today in the discussion of one of the colleagues is in favour of how we are actually not just about the need to change the Constitution, but rather about the need to respect the Constitution. Initiatives or for the adoption of this declaration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia preceded, as far as I know, an initial meeting with the RS president, where the leaders participated, now beware, I would like to be explained which parties!? The party leaders were involved which we cannot formally determine without agreeing to violate the BiH Constitution. The party leaders who predated the RS Srbin votes were invited, and they were said to be the leaders of parliamentary parties. Among those leaders were not leaders of the SDA, nor of the Party for BiH, as far as I know, nor of the SDP. The second thing, last night's media comments, and today it's repeated. Unfortunately, I would have liked it if I had made a mistake to be corrected, as I would have liked to be corrected even though I was wrong about the first part of this opening, both the position and the opposition were agreed to this declaration. This meant the position again, as I understood, which neither the SDA nor the 62 SDP nor the BiH Party enter. They are not treated as they were not treated at the first meeting of the RS president as parliamentary parties, so they were not treated here either as a position or as an opposition. The opposition, as I understand it, was thought of by radical parties and those not in RS power, and the SDA and the Party for BiH, because they reacted very strongly, as far as I know, against the character of the Declaration. And today he's here, and I haven't been following him, and here's to be resented if I was wrong, but someone said today that both the position and the opposition are compatible. In other words, the positions and opposition are parties that predicate the Srbin vote in RS, and SDP, the Party for BiH and the SDA are not treated at all as parliamentary parties. And this, in my opinion, is also actually a confirmation of what I was saying in the first report, saying that maybe they'll get the wrong idea, I'm afraid they'll get the wrong idea in terms of the gradual pathway, but I just wanted to point out that there are obligations. For example, the Ministry of Justice needed us to just point out solutions to harmonising the Constitution with European statutes and declarations and to just put them out here. It's not a matter of debate, it's not a matter of political will, let's just say. We are constitutionally bound, the constitution of the people is a constitutional decree. And, on the other hand, I, here, just re-emerge the importance of this debate at all and the necessity of, of course, its leading in Parliament, to lead a well-intentioned, open, fair, without fear of taboo, I don't know, elements or moments, but also in a way to avoid, of course, as much as possible, both political and any other manipulation of this topic. If I am, I must say again, if I was wrong about understanding last night's reactions to the Declaration and if I have made a mistake, I have in mind the report in the "Independent Journal" and "Freedom", about the meeting, which was with the president and announced and the maintenance information, which included the leaders of six parties from the RS, without representatives of the SDA, the Party for BiH and the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4055	Thank you, Professor Neimarlija, who has come out of the agenda well. Anybody else want a word? Dr. Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4056	As in the case of this first initiative, I will also be against this second case, although I can understand both the reasons and the launch, but just as I thought about the first one and this one, I don't think the initiatives on this topic are good without some initial consent. And that's the attitude I have, and I'm convinced that all of what we've been doing today will have very negative consequences in the future, and I'm particularly confident that it will have negative consequences because I think it's going to fall and then what we should have changed, and that's the point a) of that first initiative, unfortunately, it won't be defined. I understand and indeed have been in a joint institution for years, I understand a certain kind of dissatisfaction with the representatives of the Croatian people with a position within BiH. I think there are some arguments. I think it was less of a result of the political will of some others than of the political will of some leaders in the past who gave themselves the right to then decide on behalf of the Croatian people, especially in the name of the Croatian people in BiH. I understand the demand of one nation to correct its position, it's a completely legitimate, rational approach, but equally 63 so that kind of initiative then creates fear with someone else whether its position will be worsened. Now here, in that part of the whole, with all the stories of constitutional changes from earlier and from now on, there is a very sincere sort of reserve of my own, the fear that in all this can happen that the position of the people I represent is getting worse. And that, as a rational political being, is difficult to allow. I'm not an altruist, I'm not a humanist, I'm not, nor is that, as I would say, my mission or the role of most of us politicians, we are still people who are thinking about their election base, about the position they come from and what they represent. And I am ready, in the maximum sense, to try to improve the position of someone else in BiH, but until that moment until it goes to the burden of the group that I represent. I think it's fair to say it, not to spill big words, empty words, not to do anything concrete. And this is some political framework that I'm moving in, and that's why I feel -- like I wasn't even for the first initiative, so, or for that decision, you're right there was already a decision, here was an initiative, a conversation -- I can't support this initiative either. It's not mine, nor do I want to defend the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic called, I received a call inviting parties based in Banja Luka. There is no formal-law, firstly, one fundamentally, it is probably the parties as you understand it, but formally-legally I think the President of the Republic has acted formally and legally by observing: he called parties based in Banja Luka. And whoever had headquarters in Banja Luka was invited. I'm not the president's lawyer, at least I intend to do it, but here's to explain the formulation that was used to call that meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4057	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. Does anyone else need a word? Here you go, Mrs. Čolo, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4058	Mr Ivanic, last night I listened to you on "The Theme of the Days" and you mentioned again the joint institutions today and last night. And I want to show you that there is no such term in the BiH Constitution. We don't have any common institutions, we have BiH institutions. And we repeat this from 1995 to today and you persistently and you and other RS politicians and you call the institution common.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4059	Mrs. Čolo, this is about the initiative of distinguished colleagues Rajić and Vidović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4060	I have the right to replicate what has been said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4061	No, but it's beyond the agenda. Excuse me, outside the agenda. I kept my right to take away Mrs. Čolo's word, because it came out of the agenda. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4062	Please...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4063	And then it would be funny to replicate on something that's not the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4064	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4065	Here you are, Mrs. Čolo, we will give our word to everyone, but let it be about the Initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4066	It's a false allegation of Mr Ivanić's exposure. I have the right to correct that assumption, because I don't think it's in the spirit of the Dayton Peace Agreement that we all call upon here.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4067	I must give the word to Mr Ivanic now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4068	I will try to keep my brain going slower than my tongue next time, although I think the term 'common' is something nicer than the BiH institutions. It seems a little far to me, and the joint institutions are acting something that's mine, too. And like this, but here, I'll try to keep my future language going, or my brain is going...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4069	A very well-relaxed condition, that's it. Mrs. Čolo, you did accept this. This looks like an apology to me, so accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4070	Mr Filipović, I didn't apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4071	No, no, I'm sorry. So, I thought I'd relax a little atmosphere, we got her tense, it's not good, it's not good. Mr. Zrna is the last to ask for a word. No, I'm sorry. I thought Mr. zrno was looking for it. So, I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. And I'm putting on a statement to the initiative that's under point 10. Who's "for"? Two. 65 Who Is “against ”? Five. And “abstained ”? So those who have already taken that decision have abstained here. Thus, “abstained ” eight or seven, five “against, ” seven are“ abstentions ” and “for ” is two. We don't have the passage of this initiative. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a harmonised summary and individual conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance and Budgets of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the revised audit accounts of the BiH institutions for 2007 I remind you that at the 11th joint session of both homes, held on 28 January this year, we discussed the summary reports of the Committee on Finance and the budget of both homes on the financial institutions' audit reports for 2007. Following the debate, it was concluded that the proposals for conclusions contained in the summary reports of both committees were instructed by these committees, together with the conclusions proposed in the joint session and the transcript of the session, and that the committees at the joint session also considered the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly to deliver a consistent proposal for conclusions. In accordance with these conclusions, the Commission for Finance and the budget of both homes carried out agreements after which we from the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the House of Nations, on 25 February 2009, received a proposal for harmonised summary conclusions. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4073	Here, as chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, I have an obligation to say a few words about this report. For the first time, we did a big job according to the guidelines... that led us practically to this report. I'll ask the Serbian People's Delegates' Club to leave the debate after the session. What are the basic values of this report? We've received summation and individual conclusions for each institution. What are the key summary conclusions? You saw in the material that you got that these 11 institutions that received a positive report were praised, and the proposed conclusions were adopted for 45 institutions, which received an opinion with the reserve, and they are part of this report. What are the specific conclusions relating to the repair of the situation in this area, which should be done according to the recommendations that he... delivered to us? So, you saw that homes -- so this is a report that discusses both homes, a single report -- that the House asks the Council of Ministers, here says, 'by the end of the first quarter, consider the Auditor's Report for 2007.' Since here are 66 late sessions, I propose that the audit reports for 2007 by the Council of Ministers be considered immediately by the end of May of this year. The following is to be introduced into practice regularly reviewing audit reports and key recommendations for audits in their jurisdiction. So, the Council of Ministers must introduce a practice of reviewing audit reports, because we have nothing to do with it if it is brilliantly done, the committees in charge, and then there is nothing. So the Council of Ministers must take seriously this part of the work that is related to the audit reports. Also, a very important thing, to establish the obligation to establish disciplinary responsibility in BiH institutions to repeat the findings of the audit. I remind you that we have an institution that has the same review recommendations for three, four years in a row and it looks pretty much like that: I don't care what the audit findings are, I don't have, nobody sanctions me and I don't have to act in accordance with the rules of the game. That behavior must be sanctioned. Therefore, measures of disciplinary responsibility within BiH institutions must be prescribed. Next important thing. We've seen a lot of training missing. In order for the Council of Ministers to have to organise training on some key things which are almost as a rule contained in most audit reports, so, for example, budget planning, budget monitoring, institutions do not know how to plan the budget. That's why we have a large number of budget users who have poor budget implementation, and, on the other hand, institutions that are looking for money and cannot get it. So, some bad plans and take up funds, and others don't realize it, they have a huge budget failure, and apparently they show they don't know how to do it. Applying public procurement regulations? Well, here I am deeply hoping that the law that is now in the parliamentary procedure regarding public procurement will finally end this job and get the law that should have a country that prepares here for these European integrations. Bringing and applying internal control system regulations, building an internal control system? Well, then, we have a whole series of institutions that haven't done anything at all... regulations, that's one problem. And on the other hand, you have institutions that did the regulations, but they didn't implement them. So 90% of the institutions are struggling with that problem. Therefore, the Council of Ministers has an obligation to carry out training, to organise training for institutions to train what quality planning and implementation of the internal control system means. Making a list of assets and assets, election of funds and liabilities? So imagine... what irresponsibility is observed when property that is registered in the ministry isn't listed but is remembered, there are no specifications that talk about it. Finally, strengthening supervision and control procedures in expenditure categories where systemic internal spending rules are lacking. So that's about six things... where training should be held, or the Commission proposes that training be recommended in that area. 67 The question of joint public procurement? So it's not that every institution gets fuel, that every institution gets computer equipment, paper, or who knows what. We even went to the point where we listed the contact numbers so the institutions couldn't tell us we weren't precise enough. We're very specific because we said which things should be organized together. A significant conclusion is Conclusion 4. where homes require the Council of Ministers to oblige the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to make within 90 days of receiving this conclusion a program of creating regulations and instructions for budget users, with the aim of removing the causes affecting the occurrence and repetition of numerous audit findings. So, when the finance ministry didn't write a recommendation, it didn't just make a mistake inside its house but made a mistake times 65 institutions. So it's very important that the finance and vault department prescribe rules of conduct. Furthermore, homes are requesting information from the State Agency for Investigation and Protection and the Prosecutor's Office about the activities undertaken in order to determine the criminal or criminal liability of the competent persons in relation to the audit reports. Imagine, 45 reports with a reserve and so on for years and never, therefore, the Office of Audit regularly delivers to the Prosecutor's Office, and never any information to Parliament on whether anyone is sanctioned for being irresponsiblely available with public money. So, no information. So we're looking for information from both the SIPA and the D.A.'s office. One of the conclusions is that it is necessary for the BiH institutions to consistently implement the Commission's conclusions from individual reports adopted in their homes for 2007, as the Commission will insist in the coming period on the application of Article 16(4). The law on audits. What does that mean? For each BiH institution, there are concrete proposals on what should be done in line with the revision recommendations. Those who don't, so we were very correct this time and we didn't want to force institutions, but next year, when the audit reports for 2008, we're going to go to what the Revision Act allows us to do, so Article 16 point 4, we're going to go to that segment that's favorite institutions, which is to reduce representation, car purchases, phone bill costs, and so, that segment that suits the institution the most. So, no, we thought we were going to a segment called a pay cut because we think it would punish everything. These are measures, which will be taken for all institutions that allow them to repeat their audit reports, and do nothing on the recommendations made by the audit. It is also called upon the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to draw up all sublaws set out in the Law on Salaries and Receipts in BiH institutions within 90 days of the adoption of this conclusion. So please, the law passed, not all sublegal acts have been completed yet, people rightly protesting. So, as soon as possible, that job has to be done. Homes are urging the Council of Ministers to propose a way to resolve collective insurance for employees in BiH institutions. Well, every farmer's cooperative has learned to make collective insurance, and imagine, in BiH institutions, there's not even that collectively mandatory that a few marks cost, even if we pay. People are practically unsecured, many people in BiH institutions travel. So, they can't count, don't let Bog make something happen, for nothing. That's one big question the Council of Ministers has to deal with. 68 Without intending to enter the independence of the Office's audit work, the Commission is asking the Office to meet the members of the Finance Commission and the budget of both homes with internal rules and criteria for expressing the opinion of the auditors. Please, we've established that some institutions have received an opinion with a reserve for 2.5 thousand marks. We find that inadmissible and unwarranted. We will, therefore, be much more concerned with the opinion of the revision and justification of the qualifications they give for it. How does an institution that has done business neatly because of the 2.5 thousand insurance marks she thought needed to be solved for workers get an opinion with a reserve? Unwarranted and inadmissible! Also, homes are asking the Council of Ministers to take all measures to address the issue of the Internal Organisation Regulation in the BiH Appeals Commission, as one of the institutions in charge of public procurement procedures, and to finally resolve the matter of appointing two members. Here, I think one of the points at the end of this agenda is to end the procedure for selecting two members of the Serb and Croatian people who are missing in the office for reviewing complaints. And finally, to include in planning the BiH institutions' budget the co-workers of the finance commission and the budget of both homes. So, these are some generals; I forgot another important one, which is: That the homes are in charge of the Council of Ministers to raise the question of changing the period of limitations of the Rules on the disciplinary responsibility of civil servants in BiH institutions. So, if six months pass, he falls, and you don't have a chance to punish him. We're asking for that to change. So, the responsibility of civil servants in these audit reports... where their responsibility is evident. Here, these were some summary conclusions for all institutions, and individual ones are in favor of each of the 45 institutions that were dealing with the reserve. This ends the first time, so we've respected the procedures he's prescribed... we're grateful for that. And we hope that, when considering the 2008 audit reports, the number of problems and the number of recommendations from the Office for Audit will be significantly smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4074	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Who wants a word? We have brought together a debate on individual and aggregated reports and conclusions. I am also concluding the debate and how this was done and accepted in the package and in the House of Representatives, the summary and individual conclusions are also the point of the agenda. So, I'm putting on a statement of a harmonised summary and individual conclusion. Who's "for"? I realize we unanimously accepted that. Thank you very much. 69 Moving to point 11, point 12, sorry, point 12. Ad. 12. Final report on the implementation of measures under the mid-term BiH Development Strategy for the period 2004-2007 (PRSP) and Economic Trends, Annual Report 2007 of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate Perhaps it would be good to hear the rapporteur of this point, Mr. Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4076	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4077	Rapporteur of the relevant commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4078	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4079	If he accepts the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4080	I thank the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4081	Mrs. Dušanka begs a word before you, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4082	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4084	So, I have no intention of talking about this report, I intend to talk about the procedure. So, I remind you that in the material you have received, I hope you have received, you have one large document addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives, Mr Nik Lozančić, Beriz Belkić and Milorad Živković. So this document is not addressed to the House of Peoples. I also remind you that the Commission probably, here is a mistake, reminding the secretary who did not take care that she was considering means a document addressed to the House of Representatives. We have two options. To discuss this document, although it is not addressed to us, and to propose a conclusion that would remind the direkcija for Economic Planning that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH consists of two homes and that when they deliver reports, they have an obligation to deliver them to two homes. So we have this possibility that we're either discussing or not discussing 70. However, my view is that this material should not be discussed, since it is not addressed to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4085	We heard Mrs. Majkić's suggestion. The Joint Commission has delivered the Report to the House of Peoples and the Joint Commission is the commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. This is not the first time that an act comes with a title only for the House of Representatives, because the perception of some people, and even in our institutions, is that the House of Representatives is equal to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is essentially not so. Let's get out of it and accept the fact that many people do not know, and who work in BiH institutions, what a complex and complicated state-law structure looks like and what it looks like, and that Annex IV with those 12 articles. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people who haven't even read it. It would not be an obstacle to me if, after working this hard after this, when the House of Representatives passed, when the Joint Committee considered it and when it made an opinion and directed me towards this home, I would overcome this problem which was not addressed, so from the Directorate for Economic Planning and towards the House of Peoples and directed to the College of the House of Peoples, but we can conclude by one conclusion, after a debate, to inform the Directorate on behalf of the House and say there is, there is an equal home called the House of Nations, which has considered it, accepted it, but that it will no longer do so unless it receives material. So, material, when it comes to one home, it has come, if it is a relevant Joint Commission, to that commission, and, therefore, we are practically getting it, regardless of what material is not sent to us. It would be good if we got it. I suggest that we still have a debate, Mrs. Majkić, to listen to the rapporteur, so the chairman of the Joint Committee, Mr. Ljubičić, to have a debate about it and to eventually draw such a conclusion that we will warn the direkcija that it does not make such a mistake in the future. Can we accept that? Thank you very much. I'm asking Mr. Ljubičić to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4086	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll start with what Mrs. Dušanka said. It's a very large material that's quite substantial, and it's covered a lot in this material that we've been offered for discussion. I accept this failure as the chairman of this committee that discussed what Mrs Dušanka said and agree with your findings when it comes to relations with one and another home, it is repeated, and I join such thinking that this home is sometimes by certain services and in our Parliament, etc. treats a little differently than the House of Representatives. I wouldn't get too much into the analysis and discussion of this material, I think in all of this, so I'm just going to stick to this point of the 5th where there are both conclusions and general development priorities. I think there's a few important areas listed here, items. Finally, I will return to the conclusions of the Joint Commission which are proposed here and are an integral part of this material. I just want to point out that the second conclusion has not yet been realized. We felt 71 on the Commission that in co-operation with the BiH Economic Planning Directorate, the Round Table on this issue should be organised and that, normally, in the context of such a debate, there is something more to be said about this material that deserves certainly proper attention, means the particular attention of people who are more professional in this area. I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4087	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić has reported on the debate so far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4088	... To me, I guess... the most important thing in this country. [[no microphone turned on]] So this material is well done and we're going to, I don't know, either receive knowledge, or accept it, or adopt it. Whatever it is, I'm hearty for us to accept it, because it's accurate, logical and warning. I just, a lot of people certainly haven't read this, I've had my patience and I've had to, so I'm just gonna go through this part called the Real Sector for a little while. So it is said: 'The Economic Planning Directorate estimates that BiH's gross social product is in 2007.', that's the last year of that period, 'increased by 8.2 and thus reached a value of 20.7 billion KM. This resulted in a steady-price growth of the previous year, i.e. 5.69 was realistic and 6.69 was planned to achieve the lowest of those achieved in 2006. year.' And now he says, "Special consumption; Investments were the main factor in GDP growth on the dissipating side. Conversely, the foreign trade balance deteriorated significantly in 2007. Even the rate of import growth, for the first time in years, was higher than export growth. This is a very dangerous signal and a continuation of a similar trend could endanger the country's macroeconomic stability." In 2008, it was worse. You know that by 2 billion, the balance of payments has been increased or worsened compared to 2007. And now he says, be careful: 'Industrial production; BiH's industrial growth was more than halved in 2007 compared to the previous year. Namely, the physical extent of bh. Industrial production increased by 5.6% in 2007 compared to the growth rate in 2006. year.' Well, the processing industry. Growth in the processing industry in both bh. The entity totalled 8.6% in 2007 as a total of half the rate compared to the previous year. Well, for example. Food production, drinks. There's no data at all, it grew slowly, given the rapid growth and slight decline, it grew something like in the Federation, in the RS reduced. There's no data here, it's agriculture. You might think we're standing there nasty. The production of tobacco products recorded a decline in both entities during 2007. Despite the expansion of construction works, the increase in the production of construction materials in the production of other non-metallic mineral products has been reported slowed growth in both entities. Textile production has seen an increased decline in the Federation of BiH, something growing in RS. The production of cellulose, paper and paper products in 2007 recorded a decline in the Federation 5.6 and something grew in RS. The only thing that was better than in 2006 was coke, steel and construction. And now behind that comes what's coming to us, so the collapse started in early 2007, in 2008, it continued, now in the race this stampede, is what we call recession and now the worst dams of construction, what was best in 2007. Besides, steel and coke? You know there's already a strike there and there's talk of cancellations, etc. So, we're, our economy is 72 in total ruin. We went downhill in 2007, and Bog asks you where we are now, when we're going to have the data, is that when this is discussed. I think this is a very important thing because we're getting rid of this whole thing, and we're not gonna have anything to spend tomorrow, are we? You're not... people are losing their jobs, companies are falling terribly, spending has fallen terribly. We don't have money like the one in America, so the budget goes back to spending, and that says you're gonna buy American, or the one in France, etc., and we don't have those opportunities because we don't have that money. We have only one thing to fight this, as far as we can do it – it's that huge import. We need to cut imports. Now someone's going to say what way, so there's gonna be hundreds of cleaners to say, well, we can't cheat on CEFTA now, and everyone's cheating on us. I'm prepared to discuss, to give hundreds of arguments to which only I, as a manufacturer, have come across. ... about this point in the back. [[You don't understand anything.]] And please, most importantly, we don't have a host in this country. This does not apply only to the state government and partly to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, mainly through entity governments. I say we don't have a host, no one's even read this, and let's face it, everybody knows what this is all about, everybody's in another movie. That is why we as the Commission have asked for this to be presented to the BiH Parliament. So people can see where we are. If we are now looking for some conclusions, please, so here it says: why... the development strategy for four years, why did this development strategy of BiH end this way in 2004-2007? Is it because the measures, as they say here, are so, that this strategy should have brought about a better one, because they were bad or not implemented? Now, that's... look out, that's a long time ago, last year's snow. What happened? Most of the consequences have happened, we have it now as it is, and now what's coming to us and, my people, I don't know who's working and earning a salary, be sure he's aware of the fat. The payer probably isn't, but there's gonna be a very quick time when the payers will get into a situation where they say, "Wait, look what's going on." No VAT, he's going to shrink drastically, no contributions, workers getting fired, so, no health care, no retirement, no pension, no this, no that, and it's even worse with VAT, because consumption has dropped drastically. Drastically, even on products that are daily such as bread, people bake bread at home, such as milk, like beer, daily product, somewhere at 15%, 20%. In a conversation with middle and small merchants, the decline in consumption in this... as we say, did this house supplies drop by 50% of these two and a half months as much as we've calculated. In construction material for 50%, in large... in those two and a half months. I was trying to interpret it to myself and I'm there, I don't know, somewhere 16%-17% weaker than last year, but I tried to interpret it to myself, you know, people tend to believe in winter mountains, last year either way, this year, and that's true, but you know 15%, 16%, 17% fall something terrible is a lot. And we're still among such slaves... it's easier to overcome. Who's thinking about this? Does he even think? The problem is that I'm afraid that these hosts -- the ministries, the government presidents -- that's the last hole, that's my fear. It's not the devil that we don't know anything to answer. We know, we have what. Likewise, reciprocity – sir, I forget the name, I always forget, what our countries do to us in the environment – we have to do to them, not to pretend to be nice gentlemen. And we, here we are not going to embarrass BiH, because there are very strong and comprehensive duty-free barriers being introduced. They organized themselves in impeccable, from ministries, chambers of commerce, inspections, even laboratories. We can talk about it with whoever, I'd just like to, I know this isn't an auditorium that I'm going into details right now, but, my people, that's how it is. 73 Here, I will at the next point tell you why I can't take the water out to Croatia. And it's our fault. I congratulate them for being organized, so they make us do what they make, and we do not have any intercessors for it. Well, I'm an MP, I don't have a talker for it, everyone's there on the left, that's it. I have nothing to suggest, I've just felt obliged to tell you where we are, liked who or didn't like it, painted it who one way or another, but we'll face those who are counting wages will face what those who are making steel today, those who are making coke, those who are making industrial processing, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4089	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidović answered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4090	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm one of those who's not completely but partly read this report, especially at a time when the Joint Commission was discussing this report. And that was five months ago, so last year, more than five months ago, so the newly formed Directorate for Economic Planning of BiH under the leadership of the former Ministers' Council has shown us through the Report and through the Reason, of course, enough of its difficulties and problems with all statistical indicators and warning..., which is what counterpart Ibrahimpašić was talking about. And respecting these remarks in the title of the document itself, there was therefore a mistake, but I believe that the Report on the Final Report of the Joint Committee should be accepted together with these conclusions that this committee has shown and expected to take into account this second conclusion to organise a roundtable, therefore, not only with representatives of this Economic Planning Directorate but also with other representatives of the institutions involved in this planning, and they are listed here in this report, and in this way we, here, were asked by the representatives of the Directorate to pay particular attention to this conclusion to the organisation of such a round table. So, of course I support this report, here's what I expect the others to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4091	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. Mladen man, I apologize, after Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4092	I really want to share with you a dilemma that is evident. There are two materials in front of us, and here's what we've figured out. The first material is the final report on 74 implementation of the measures under the medium-term development strategy of BiH in 2004-2007 (PRSP) 2004-2007. The second material is the economic trends and the Annual Report for 2007. In 2007, we argue, here begins the second quarter of 2009? And worse, I look back now: so the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development is 24. 11. In 2008, she discussed it. And the next thing, they say, "The Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development has positively stated on the material of the Economic Planning Directorate... and both of these materials." Yes, but they're not current now. In view of the situation and how fast the storm of recession approaches us, this material absolutely cannot serve as material based on which to organise a public debate. It is: The Council of Ministers must adopt new proposals until the Directorate for Economic Planning as an administrative organisation in the composition brings compulsory new material on the basis of which the public debate will be held. Well, don't suppose we'll expect the public to participate in the debate about the 2007 material that was based somewhere for 2007. I suggest that the material be taken into account and requested to deliver new material, current, where it could be seen exactly where BiH is located from the aspect of the upcoming recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4093	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4094	First, I join those who really say that the Directorate should treat both homes equally, because it is essential, as Mrs. Čolo would say, constitutional category. She's not here, but I'd also like my colleagues to not talk about the state government anymore when they talk about the Council of Ministers, because it's a constitutional category, so we stick to it the same way. Secondly, about the document, I must commend, I think the document The economic trends in BiH are nicely made, very precise, I would say, without entering political ideologies, but rather a very useful review of economic matters. We could have discussed them five months ago, it's our fault it's not theirs, and they can't even make a report before, because the social product can't be made and calculated at least six months after the end of this year, and that, if it's done in six months, they're fine, they're fast and they're efficient. So a good one and, as you can see, even though it was written a long time ago, already recalling the balance sheet in the fund, in which direction the economy is heading. Already very challenging, with a lot of positive but warning negative effects. I think this is the material that needs to be taken into account, I accept that formulation, that it is beneficial to all the authorities and that they should really read it, if anything, it's educational. And this other document that speaks of the implementation of where we are. When you look at it, it is implemented,... it is continuously implemented, it seems to be quite good, but if you read the parts that are not implemented, you will see... a few very serious things that should be done: there is no reform of the pension system, there is no reform of the system of financing or health, and there is no reform of the financing of education and the whole series of essential reforms. There's a lot that's been done, but still just scratched on the surface. So, my proposal for this criticism for why we haven't treated ourselves in the same way, with praise for the transparency of the whole document: the proposal to accept this only for knowledge, not to decide on something else and my suggestion in person, I don't think it should be a conclusion, this document should really be read by all authorities, all ministers who deal with this business, because it is very, very instructive.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4095	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4096	... Today all justice comes from the recession, comes from America, and it's all our fault from the outside. [[microphone is not enabled]] That's not true. This collapse began long before this recession, which they learned, was the case. I said I can't even offer a conclusion, what I'm going to do now that it's last year's snow; in 2008, I feel worse than 2007, and now the dibidius. So, I want it to be known that our accident did not begin with the global economic crisis, but we began to collapse on our own because of our unhappiness, ignorance, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4097	Thank you very much. Here, we have a reported Mr. Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4098	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not comment on any of the other materials, nor on the third ones we also received, related to the economic trends in BiH for January -- September 2008. We see from these materials what the situation in the economy is like. I think we can take this information to the knowledge and this conclusion proposed by the Commission. But on this occasion, speaking of this topic, I would like to propose one item of the agenda for the next session of this house, which is to task the European Integration Directorate to give us one detailed information on the possibilities of using pre-accession funds, so-called. IPA funds in BiH, he presents, since BiH as a signator of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has the possibility of using two funding lines, and this line to strengthen BiH institutions and the so-called line. cross-border co-operation. I think very little is known in both the public and this Parliament, except those who are members of the Commission for European Integration, who share this 76 information in part. I think we use these funds very little, and in that sense, one concrete move would have to be made, and the initiative would come from this home. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4099	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Does anyone else need a word? I'm closing the debate. We have received a suggestion in the report from Mr. Ljubičić's relevant committee, because they accepted it, therefore, by receiving the knowledge of the Report, and we will receive knowledge of it, there is nothing new, so we already have a suggestion to receive it. At the same time as we take this into consideration, I'm going to suggest these conclusions as well. Please just make it clear that we're receiving a final report. We received it unanimously. I am asking you now to accept this conclusion to inform the Economic Planning direkcija that the future respects the two-camerality of this Parliament and that the reports delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly come to one and another home, preferably as timely as possible. Can we take that as a conclusion? Who's to put a conclusion like this? So unanimous. There are no votes "against" and "abstained". We have a proposal from Mr Koprivica to ask the Directorate for Economic Planning to provide us with information on (is this Directorate or European Integration)... the way pre-accession funds are used.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4100	It's not in the context of this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4101	I think it might be in the context of this point, given the composition, the content of the document that was delivered to us. I don't get it, I don't know what other people think. Can we accept this conclusion? Who's "for"? I also find that we accepted this proposal unanimously. Moving to point 13, that's 77 Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the CEFTA Action Plan with BiH Foreign Trade Exchange Analysis for 2008 You got the report. The House of Representatives adopted this Opinion on the implementation of the Action Plan. I'm opening the debate. Who wants a word? Who wants a word? Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4103	... And then, already, I have this over my head, the right to tell you, and not to worry about our own powers for our own economy. [[microphone is not enabled]] So, then there's doubt that she wrote to the Directorate for indirect taxation, because they don't have what they should have had, and then there's nothing, divorce, and I, the question I asked, and today I said that I'm not happy about what's going on, there's nothing, there's nothing I need, I don't know what. That directly affects what I'm talking about earlier. We've gotten into this all limp, in a war damaged, like this, like this, with nothing, and we're competing with the companies that ran into this market, and we, in 1996, didn't miss anything, but we didn't produce anything, and now we're slowly pushing them off our market and it's taking Bog asking you how much. That's one thing. So, you didn't do something that we could use to prove who the people of this are that we're right, not that you're telling us, you're not telling us that we're lying, you're not importing beer. Be careful, because the Banja Luka brewery of the 10 Hatters, she moved 10 trucks to Italy to repack in a can, because there's no such thing; eh, now you're importing beer, and he's done exporting for import. Or what was the brewery in the Gruds for a time, which was until 1999, made the March beer and packed it, imported it over. Here, now that brewery of gin, it's over, lay down, ask us to buy her trucks, this, that. So it's that worry about it, so you'll get another 100 employees at the Bureau. And secondly, not to distract you very much, here's the same list of what the Council of Ministers should have done, that's what it's all about. Here, I'll stick to this, he says: 'The regulations currently being worked at the Agency whose adoption is expected by the end of 2008' (currently current activities). And under the 6th, it says: 'The Natural Mineral and Natural Waters Policy'. You all remember that a month or two ago I asked the question why we don't have that rule, and here, now you know the truth. In 2007, this structure from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations brings that regulation to the Foreign Chamber and calls on manufacturers to see if they agree. And we, before that, had a lot of conversations, were referring to only one member, I don't know which one is now, because there's no reciprocity. So, we say, in our regulation, there is this formulation: 'He who wants to export water, or to consume water, to sell water in BiH, must obtain a certificate of an authorised institution from the country where the water originates.' And we tell them, gentlemen, this is bad, because the Croatian Regulation says that whoever wants to sell water in Croatia must obtain the certificate of an authorised EU institution that this water is ok. and they say... and you write it, 2007. Until today, they won't write it, they can't take it out because... now I'm here, so I can say it, there's no reciprocity, and all that time, they're letting those who are pushing water out here to sell whatever they want, because we don't have regulation. We can only microbiologically control the water, because it's a matter of both regulations. And if there are heavy metals in there, this one, that one, you don't have why, because you don't have a rule book. And why is that rulebook, here, come on by 2008, I've been waiting for everything and asked a question in February of the month, what don't we have? Which bush is the rabbit, what is it? And don't, please, I won't use any harsh words right now, but I am terribly associated with the text of that member in the Croatian Regulation and ours, I will not yet claim that it is prescribed, that only there is the ministry, because it is competent, and with us the Food Agency, and then when it comes to this, the institutions of the country where the water springs and the other, the institutions... EU members. It's not real, and they told us at that meeting, and we didn't know it. Look, it's not real, so we all know that half the rules are being consulted, why not, that's okay. Let him consult, but don't make us, and then why don't we export water to Croatia. I... three months ago, four, and paid for the analysis at a Vienna Institute, a state institute, and made me an analysis and sent me here. And now he asks, "Give me, please, do you have any confirmation that this source is the source?" And that's what's in that rulebook. There's got to be a food agency... there to say yes, this is the source, and it's gonna hit the fly. Since we don't have the rules, he can't come here. Since I don't have that paper, I'm not getting that certificate now either. I asked these people from this institute to try, explained to them the situation to try that ministry in Vienna now to process that certificate for me anyway. I mean, all this together won't affect our score very much, but, my people, it's a shame when I say this and people laugh behind my back and say who these fools are. If someone says this isn't true, please, and I want to come here and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4104	Thank you very much. Some of my formulations are completely unclear from these discussions of yours, but you have the right to such discussions. Anybody else want a word? I hereby conclude the debate and report to you that the House of Representatives has received this report. I suggest that our home do the same. Who's "for" that? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? We unanimously received the report on the implementation of the Action Plan. Moving to point 14. 79 Ad. 14. Report on BiH's 2008 progress and Enlargement Strategy and key challenges in 2008 and 2009 (the Directorate for European Integration material) You've been given the opinion of the Joint Committee. Dr. Ivanic, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4106	I would suggest one thing, so we don't discuss this, because the conclusion of this committee is that we sit together, both at home. If we're gonna accept that, then there's no need to discuss this more than we have to go together. They have no other conclusion than that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4107	So, I gave you my word, but I was going to say it, I've got it boeded here in front of me, but you made it easier for me to do the job. I suggest we accept a joint session of both homes, so we discuss this topic and stop doing that, so let's get this off the agenda. Who is “for ” this conclusion? Thank you very much, unanimously. We will inform the College of the second home at the joint session of both colleges 7. 4. that we accepted a joint session with the topic: debate on this item of the agenda. _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] Please. _________(?) There's, uh, time standing, I said time, so it wouldn't go far.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4111	Very briefly, I won't be long, I think for the first time, I think, you have received the Report of the BiH Delegation and I think it is very important and good for Parliament to see what the delegation is doing and what it is doing. It's not all done here yet. Here the biggest emphasis is given on those discussions concerning BiH, when it was a topic. Our delegation is very active and in some other areas, it should be more, because your authority in the Council of Europe can never be represented if you speak for yourself. We need to get involved in some broader debates, unfortunately there's not enough, but here's hoping it will be. And what I ask of Parliament is: the activities in the Council of Europe include a lot of work, not only sitting when the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly are, but also working on committees. I must say that the BiH delegation has been criticised for taking little part in these committees. But why is he taking part? One part is because of the ambience that was created to spend a lot of money on journals and travels and a whole series of things and one part of people, then, if they didn't, they wouldn't even go. That's bad for BiH. And I ask you to just (so I have not, I do not suggest a conclusion) that you bear in mind that it is the obligation of delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly to participate at least in one committee, that these committees have at least one, if not, and two meetings between regular meetings, that it is the obligation of members of the Council of the Parliamentary Delegation of BiH to be practically in the course of the year in Strasbourg, plus that they participate in these committee meetings. If we do not participate in the work of the committee, our authority, reputation and ability to contribute in the right way, the words will be bad. Otherwise, I say, I think it's a correct report and that you could get a review and have even more activity than these, but I think it's a good thing that we started to report this House and the Parliamentary Assembly on our work, and I think it would be good once a year to have some little information on some issues that are adopted in the Council of Europe, which do not directly refer to BiH, and can have particularly big influences, very big effects. Thank you very much. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4112	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanic. Who's next to answer the word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Just to remind you before the vote that the House of Representatives also adopted this report and I ask you to set yourself up. Who is “for ” this account? Unanimity. Do you, Mr. Ivanić, think this should, as you said, be the conclusions or is it just your recommendation? Thank you. So this is unanimous. We move to the next 16th item of the agenda, which is: Ad. 16. Proposal for a state strategy to monitor drug intoxication, prevent and combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs in BiH from 2009-2013, Proposer: Council of Ministers I'm opening a discussion on the 16th agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4114	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. So, I won't be much longer on this drug strategy. I want to commend, at least that's how I experienced this document, and I think it would be a great thing if it were to be carried out in action. So, I'm particularly happy with this part that talks about prevention, education, treatment, so all of this part, but what I'm particularly interested in, and what I think may be missing from this part is that there is a kind of work-out missing after this and monitoring, a kind of monitoring of this strategy, in terms of who will do what in the prevention in the field of health, social protection, education, security, criminal and correctional sanctions, as well as related to education in health, education, treatment, etc. I would like to see from all these levels of institutions, from the municipalities, cantons, entities, states, who are responsible for what to do precisely, follow the implementation of these measures and, of course, carry out one evaluation of these results and goals that would eventually achieve this year-to-year follow-up. This is a terrible evil which, unfortunately, is increasingly taking hold of both our society and without the speedy and adequate measures of all the competent institutions, I fear we will not successfully resist this problem. 82 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4115	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Anybody else want a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4116	It would really not be appropriate for such a significant document that we have been waiting for so long, for so long, for so long, and not saying a few words. So we can make a million remarks about why it's not this or that, but the most important thing is that for the first time we have received a drug surveillance strategy and prevention and prevention of drug abuse in BiH. I think we've been trying for four years, because last term was initiatives, but here we are now, and I really respect that effort made by the Council of Ministers and here present, the Minister of Civil Affairs to try to reach a comprehensive document that will help, on the basis of the Action Plan, address the issues that are related to this modern-day monster. We can see that on document 15, consent was given, from both state and entity levels. So everyone in need got involved. And there are always laws that come from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so they are in a position to hire the largest number of participants and to have the opportunity to say everyone on the subject. And I really think that's a good way to work at the Council of Ministers. What new quality will BiH gain by adopting this strategy? First of all, I think it's important that they get the Office to control drug abuse. So we didn't have anyone to deal with until now. We passed the Law, and we didn't create mechanisms to deal with it. The second thing is that it will strengthen the institutional capacities and involve the Bosnian-Herzegovina society in solving this monster. So that's one of the things that's for the respect. Third, it will build mechanisms to prevent further spread of drug abuse. So we'll have mechanisms to act on. We've seen for example. in Croatia, how much strength, energy, knowledge and goodwill has been invested to solve this problem. And finally, what I think is most important is that this country's legislative responsibility for resolving such a large issue will be improved, and that it will not only remain there, but that all of this will be implemented, so that BiH will not remain famous for a large number of passed laws, including this one, and that it will remain a dead letter on paper. So, regardless of some NGOs are bringing reserves to certain parts of this strategy, I find it significant that BiH will receive a document by adopting this strategy that will help improve the situation in the area of prevention, repression and abuse of intoxicating drugs and I urge everyone to adopt this document. Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Zno, before then, then Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4118	I will only express, Mr. Chairman, one great pleasure that we have received this strategy of drug surveillance, of the greatest evil of our century, because we have essentially received a basic document based again by all those who have found themselves here, and have found everyone who needs to be in the strategy, so in one strategic document, they will not be able to avoid, if anything else, condemning their own inadequacy or commendation of their own work. I'm saying this from what I've been saying for years, especially on our board, we've been meeting through other reports, and especially reports from the Ministry of Security, with this problem. You know that we've had long and almost endless debates, and I believe that there's also been written from that called the House of Peoples and that calls upon the Committee of Defence and Security that at least ten times I've insisted, or suggested, about that (and that's why I've been raised today) that we now have a strategic document that will cover everything, because here it is, a problem that is not one-dimensional and cannot be seen simply as a problem, because this is a set of problems or a set of different circumstances in which a complete system must be tied up and how much to read from this act, from this strategy, is really a connected system, from a system of prevention through a system to combating this evil. Minister, good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4119	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrn. Now we've got the quorum back, Mr Ibrahimpašić's back. Here you go, Dr. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4120	I join those who have spoken commendable words because we are getting this document and I suggest only one conclusion. As I understand it, after the adoption of this strategy, follows the creation of an action plan, with no deadline given. I think it is necessary to define a 60-day deadline and I propose a conclusion: To inform the Council of Ministers to bring an action plan within 60 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4121	Thank you very much. Is that a reasonable deadline, Minister? Is there anyone else in need?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4122	A rare minister who sat here. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4123	We've already praised him, especially welcomed him. [[Common discussion]] I'm closing the debate. I would like to put it to the statement of the State Strategy proposal that we have praised. I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a state strategy. Minister, congratulations. At the same time, I am putting forward a proposal for a conclusion proposed by Dr Ivanic to commit the Council of Ministers to adopt an action plan within 60 days to implement this state strategy. Who is “for ” this conclusion? I understand that we have unanimously accepted this conclusion. I thank the Minister, every good thing, welcome the Council of Ministers and let it be more common with us. The 17th item of the agenda is: Ad. 17. Information on criminal acts against the dignity of persons and morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings in 2006 and 2007 and the first nine months of 2008
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4126	We have a different situation than before. So when I got this information, the first question I asked myself was what benefits we have from the 2006 and 2007 reports before the end of the first quarter of 2009. So, we have the Information, I remind you, of the crimes against the dignity of persons and morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in people in 2006 and 2007 and in the first nine months of 2008. What does this information mean to us? ... How do you make a conclusion based on this information? Secondly, why was this report based on nine months in 2008, when data were available for 2008 in February of this year? Because the report, I remind you, has come to procedure 30. 1. In 2009, and immediately comes the question does this mean that we will receive the 2008 report in 2010? By the way the Ministry of Security delivers the reports, very 85 is likely to happen, so no conclusion can help repair the situation, because we are always considering materials that are two years old. When actually the Ministry of Security, because so far all the reports delivered by the Ministry of Security have been problematic, and the worst of it is that, here I am, we're saying this here among us, there's no key actor who's going to be here to hear this. And the next report will be the same. So, in general, the view of the whole text: confusing, vague, in one line several crimes of the different for which, through information, had to prove correlation in action. It's not done. And nothing's been proven. The text is without chronological order, we don't know what's primary, and what's secondary, or in any other logical order this information should be explained. It is inexplicable that this information was not subject to serious analysis at the Council of Ministers, which adopted it 15. 1. In 2009, but also at the House of Representatives, no one will read, we'll all vote like this. Here, it almost happened, and I really didn't want that to happen, and at the House of Peoples, because we've stopped all these problematic texts that came to our home on various grounds. And that's our responsibility. Maybe others miss, but we have to make sure that the bad content is bad information to at least warn them that they're bad. I cite several examples to confirm this finding. We have a chapter on a legislative framework that provides a review of the laws in BiH that treat human trafficking, so that legal legislation is mentioned in entities, and then moves on to the UN Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, and then returns to state legislation in the area of human trafficking. Woe to one who could draw a conclusion from such a finding, that is, to see what is needed or what is not well done. So there's no chronological order of exposure of matter, meaning from smaller to larger, from more significant to less significant, to more significant. Also, this chapter does not give an overview of the legal legislation in BiH in the area of crimes against dignity of personality and morals, although the title of the Information on Criminal Crimes against Personality and Morals, etc., was to be carried out because statistics that are currently talking about these criminal acts are being carried out in the next chapter. In the section of statistics on crimes against dignity of personality, it falls into the eyes that there are no indications of unearthed criminal acts of trafficking of people discovered and recorded by the Border Police. It is illogical that the border police, first in contact with legal and illegal immigrants, did not have any cases of human trafficking discovered for three observed years. And we know it's not like that. What does a minister like this mean? Is that an attack on the BiH Border Police? Or isn't it because he's not communicating with the Border Police, he hasn't placed any positive results on the institution? It would be good if the minister had read the report on the work of the Border Police, which, behold, neither the minister nor his analysts who did this analysis were doing. The way statistics are presented is so confusing and so unsuitable to the people who are going to use this, I really don't know how we could get any message out of it. In the main statistical trend on crimes in BiH during the first nine months of 2008, the results of the border police were first mentioned, and only for 2008. The following text intertwines statistics and modus operands, creating confusion when reading text. 86 It is additionally confusing that statistics were given together for human trafficking and for crimes against dignity of personality and morals, which had to go separately because one type of crime does not necessarily include this other. So, countless mistakes and countless indiscretions and countless surfaces. Finally, the proposal for a measure is not adequate to what is written in the information itself and should be extended, e.g. I, as a free shooter, tried to see, in this proposal measures, what else should be included. First of all, whether or not it should be here and if there is any indication that training should be organised for our diplomatic and consular workers who are really exposed and must be familiar with all this data. What about social workers, parents, teaching staff, students, how they should be prepared to strengthen prevention, what about the activity of the NGO sector, the media and the like in this alarming area that we all know about individually what is happening to us and what is it like? About the work and the actions of the police and the prosecution, not a word, as if they didn't exist. The work of the task force, which is being part of representatives of all political agencies and prosecutors, has not been mentioned at all. If the author so insists that victims of human trafficking are more revealed when detecting illegal migration, why does the proposal not say a word about it. So I suggest that the following conclusion be adopted: 1. The home of the people takes note (because we have no other option, otherwise I would say that something like this will never happen again at the House)... Information on crimes against dignity of persons and morals in BiH, with an emphasis on the crimes of trafficking and trafficking in human beings for 2006, 2007 and the first nine months of 2008. 2. Also, the People's House finds that this information has been done very superficially and unconsistently and obliges the Ministry of Security to produce and deliver new, more complete information for 2008 on criminal offences (not to repeat this title). Here, that's my suggestion and attitude around this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4127	Thank you very much. Mr. Rančić. If anyone else answered, I wrote. Mr. Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4128	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4129	Turn yourself in, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4130	... When I also called the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his two deputies, who are of the order of the other two constituent nations, for cases and situations where they do not implement their legally prescribed obligation, and all ministers, regardless of any qualifications, for 87 fulfil the obligation that they are obliged to attend the dom sessions, not only when they have their point, as here you see, we have no one, both at some previous points and at the next points, but are obliged to attend the entire House session. A colleague, Majkić, has been speaking in continuity for the past few months or years, and whenever it comes to reports, or suggestions, or points, or the laws of the Ministry of Security, she and the priors take the stand to attack such things. Here, we have this information! It makes incorrect facts and assessments, based on which of course it makes the wrong conclusions. We had a chance to see how they brought down today a law that is also from this resistor. If counterpart Majkić truly wanted the area of security to be improved, she would also vote in favour of laws that would allow for more effective co-ordination in the field of work of all police organisations in BiH. Of course, whenever it is an opportunity for both colleague Majkić and other colleagues to knock down such laws when they come into parliamentary procedure and when the report comes, then, the report says is wrong. And yet, imagine, he blames the Resort Ministry, and it is known that there is no, whether there are any operational, none of these, or those powers towards police agencies law enforcement in this area. In order for him to be responsible, he would have to have legal authority over all these police agencies. How can he collect adequate, accurate, precise, high-quality information from entity police, from cantonal police, from the Brcko District Police, if he has no jurisdiction over them, while they deliver valid, invalid, with delay, etc.?- I'm sorry. It is also an example of trying to fix this thing through the adoption of the Law on the Directorate for the Coordination of Police Structures and Independent Police Authorities and Their Support Agency. Here, today we have had an attempt to implement this law in the segment to elect the Independent Committee responsible for conducting the procedure for selecting the Director of the Police Structures Coordination Directorate, and we know that counterpart Majkić has just voted against the body's election. So how can we get out and talk -- not a good situation in this area, this information is not good -- and when institutionalally we need to establish bodies that need to do this and then we vote in the same session against it. He's making another claim that in this information, there's no record of the border police's work in this area. Well, I call on my colleague to read page 6 again, the fifth paragraph, which reads, 'In the first nine months of 2008, BiH Border Police submitted 37 official reports to the competent prosecutors for human trafficking, Article 189. KZ BiH, and other crimes related to it. Of that number, two official reports refer to Article 250. KZ BiH, organised crime, and related to Article 189. KZ BiH. 66 people have been reported for these crimes, down 3.03 from the same period last year. This shows the next table' (I don't need any further). My colleague said there's no data there, and they write there. I didn't make them up now. That's it, then. Of course, I'm in favour of doing better in this area than any police agency who, if, has legal authority to do this. But if the Ministry of Security has no authority over them, how will it be responsible for their work. I mean, I don't think that's right. If we want more efficient, better etc., then we have to vote the laws in which such solutions will be contained and when we declare such laws, through the implementation of procedures for the appointment of bodies under these laws, such as the Independent Co-ordination Committee, for the supervision of 88 police chiefs and for their appointment, such as the Citizens' Board of Appeals, these are two of the three independent bodies, we cannot vote in a way to bring down those bodies, and then again... for an hour or two to teach someone a lesson about how the situation in that area is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4131	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mrs. Majkić, the replica, maybe, or the wrong one. Correction of false allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4132	There's nothing here. But let me say a few words. I still hope that, Mr. Rančić, as a delegate in this House of Nations, I have the right to my own position, I have the right to support or not to support some law, and it would be difficult for me to have someone else decide, to say I have to get those instructions from you, what to support or what not to support. So, the moment I think something is wrong, when the interest of the Republic from which I come is injured, when the principle I cannot accept is violated, then I will vote against it, and I do not deny it to you at all. That's why I'm asking you to stay out of it. It's my right to vote the way I think I should vote. If it's true the Department of Security doesn't have jurisdiction, what do we need the Ministry for? What do we need the Ministry for? So, I didn't think that you needed an example of what the minister from your party is; rather, it's an additional argument that you say things should be fixed and you should do everything that the ministry finally begins to co-operate with other security agencies and, until now, you know well that we don't have a adopted safety report for 2007, you know that every report is problematic, that every law that the ministry delivers, a bunch of amendments, which from the international community, which of the different institutions, therefore, is never complete and complete. And that's the thing that the U.S.A. should think of. That's not my problem. But I don't want to, I have to listen to it, but I don't have to tolerate it. Second, the border police did, you said what I... but you didn't hear the first part. How in the 2006 and 2007 section, there is not a single success of the Border Police, only in 2008. So that's what I said. How is it possible that for two years there is no positive result, everything is concentrated in the first nine months of 2008? Mr. Rančić, don't take away my right to notice and say what I've noticed. And I leave it to you, here was a representative from my political option and showed what SNSD is doing, or the political party from which I come from, and please don't try to take away what I've been given by the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4133	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Second time replica, Mr. Rančić. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4134	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Majkić did not dispute anything from what I argued in my discussion. She tried to replace some of the issues, so I'll explain it to her one more time. So, I haven't said one word to take the right to my own opinion. I also remind her of the attitude of fellow Rajić about a free man. That's... I respect that, I know that, and I don't dispute that. But I do dispute your least double behaviour at the same session where you break the law that comes from the Ministry of Security, destroy the application of the law from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security in deciding on the Independent Committee and the Board of Appeals. I'm not saying it's not your right to vote, it is, but you're tearing it down by your vote, and then you say, "I forbid you to take a stand." And when the information comes, you say, well, people, it's not a good situation in this ministry, in the security sector. It is not good because you do not allow the selection of the Independent Committee which has the authority to call the procedure for selecting the Director for the Coordination of Police Structures and to establish that body, so that it can exercise this competence. The Department of Security, the security sector, the area of security, call it whatever you want, it's necessary for every state. I didn't say it in one word. And if you want him to function effectively, then you have to give him legal powers and systematic measures. You can't give someone jurisdiction, ask that agencies, police agencies, have both operational and technical and staff and financial and any other independence, and for their work or dislike, success or failure, to blame me or you or the Resort Minister, who can't get involved in these things. You can't get involved in these things, pal. So, if we want systematic work, if we are genuinely concerned about this area, and I am – I share an opinion with you, I do not think that the good situation is overall in that security, that it should be improved, reduce serious crimes, fight organised crime – but it can be done by passing laws that will be effectively applied, which will have instruments to do so and, of course, to report to us annually. We can't stop the establishment of a system through the passing of laws, by preventing law enforcement, and when the information comes, here's what's wrong, and it's still somebody else's fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4135	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Is there anyone else who needs it? I'm closing the debate, I'm closing the debate, I'm sorry, it won't contribute your discussion to the approximation of these two attitudes, they're so far away about each other, so I'm closing the debate and get some rest. We had two suggestions here. One is quite logical, because it was also proposed by the Constitutional Commission as relevant: to take this information into account, not to adopt it. So we'll accept what this committee suggested and here's what Mrs. Dušanka suggested. So, I'm putting on a plea to accept the knowledge of the Information. Who's "for"? Unanimity. I find that we have unanimously received knowledge of the Information. 90 The second proposal was Mrs Dušanka: to request a new, consistent House of People, as she said in her proposal, information from the resolution ministry for 2008. Right? I'm putting on a statement and this proposal. So that would practically make you happy when you get rid of these shortcomings and these. Who is “for ” such a proposal? That's four, five, six. Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? "Restraint" votes five. This didn't get entity support. I'm asking you to plead now. Can we? So we don't have the consent and we'll leave this for the next session when we have all three members of the College. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4138	If I get it right, it's us, what, 11, is it? But there were abstentions. Therefore, it has received most of those present who vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4139	There were two "for" in the Federation. So there should have been four "for", with your votes "yes", to pass it. So, we're going to a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4140	No alignment, no third.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-03-26-0.u4141	Well, there's no entity third in the Federation. Young, okay. So, to agree to the members of the College when we're in complete harmony. 91 We move to point 18, that is, Ad. 18. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes It's very simple. In the Committee for Economic Reform and Development, Mr Ljubičić resigned. We'll take it today, so we'll get rid of it, and he's accepted Mr. Koprivica's candidacy. So the decision is ahead of you. I'm putting on a statement on the motion for a decision. I'm opening a debate. So, is there a need? It's all simple. So, so simple. Who's to accept this decision and resolve one, appoint another? Who's "for"? I realize we did it unanimously. We're going to point 19, that's "Ad." 19. Appointment of two members of the Office for the Review of Appeals from the Order of Administrative Law Experts, Proposer: Council of Ministers
