ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28707	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 59th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I welcome you once again and, unfortunately, before the session begins, I have a sad one, so to speak, duty. I'm sure you're aware that our honourable MP, a good man, has recently passed away after a long illness, Mr. Jovan Todorović, so I ask that we honor him with a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28708	Praise him, rest his soul. 34 MPs (23 from the Federation and 11 from the RS) are present at the session, which means that assumptions have been created to hold today's session, of course, some of them still carry out parliamentary duties. But here's another one, so to speak, far less unpleasant duty. So you know that on 22 July 2009, the Central Election Commission delivered the decision to the House on the termination of the term of office of Hadži Jovan Mitrović and assigned the mandate to the next qualified candidate from the Democratic People's Union, which is Mrs Ljiljana Milašin. This decision has become a forceful one. On August 25th 2009, Ljiljana Milašin signed the Declaration of Acceptance. Therefore, at this point, we are left to perform a ceremony of giving a solemn statement in order for Mrs. Milašin to assume her rights and obligations. So I call upon Mrs. Ljiljana Milašin to make a solemn commitment. You, ma'am, repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28709	'I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28710	'I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with; 2
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28711	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28712	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28713	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28714	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28715	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28716	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28717	Thank you. .../a small break in the recording/... The draft agenda, or agenda for today's session, was given and you could see that there were no additional interventions. Yesterday, at the Enlarged College, we practically reached full agreement, or established this agenda. But here, in any case, may I have your attention, we've finally started working, so may I have your attention, please? I'm opening a debate on the agenda for the 59th session, today's 59th session. Here you go. Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28718	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives, on the basis of article 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I present to you the next proposal to supplement the agenda of the 59th session of the House of Representatives. I propose that today's agenda include a new item of the agenda: - Considering the negative consequences of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the RS Entity, which in the remaining two municipalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been abolished by the prefix of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3 I suggest that this be one of the first four points of the agenda, but I don't mind if it is classified as another item of the agenda of today's session. I would like to remind you that I raised this issue 10 months ago here in this House, so in December of last year, and that there was no willingness to discuss this issue, unfortunately, there was no readiness. All that I and my colleagues in the SDP then said came true seven or eight months later and it was confirmed today that it was better that we discussed it here in Parliament and took the appropriate conclusions than that the issue was complicated in the way it has been done in recent months. I think that as state lawmakers, we have a duty and a duty to react when it comes to this issue and I do not think that in this House we can accept in any way the explanation of the RS government's representatives as prefixes Bosnian in certain municipalities of this state of BiH and the entities that offend it to anyone. I believe that the prefix of Bosnian is not property, as it was tried to be presented by one of the clubs of the people in the RS Assembly, more specifically in the Council of Nations, that it is a national interest of only one people. The prefix of Bosnian national interest is equally of both Bosniak and Croatian peoples in this country and all other people living here. That's why I think it's harmful for anyone to declare it a vital national interest of a nation. Imagine what state lawmakers in France would do if someone abolished the French prefix in that country and explained how it was given when the Bosnian prefix was abolished, in order to react in German state MPs, in Russia and in Serbia, in Croatia and in any country in the world? So it is absolutely necessary that we act as state lawmakers, too, because we took an oath to defend the BiH state when we started this mandate. What is particularly sad is the fact that, if this law remains in force, all those who dared on the territory of the RS will in future mention the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosnian Ship, etc. will be fined from 1,500 to 20,000 KM. So, not only is it forbidden, but anyone who mentions the term of the Bosnian Ship and the Bosnian Costa Rica will be punished even this rigorously. So, I propose that we put this issue on the agenda today, that as BiH State MPs we react and send a clear message that this should not be done in the BiH state in this way. In addition to the item on this agenda, I am delivering a complete Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia as a contribution to the debate, and I believe that we will have the strength to put it on the agenda and make appropriate conclusions on this. I thank and deliver in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28719	Any further reports? Momčilo Novaković, did I see right or was it a mistake?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 4 Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I will not support the SDP Club's proposal to find this item on the agenda. First, we have never put on the agenda laws adopted in another body, in another parliament, and this would be a precedent to discuss today a law adopted... at some other level of government in this country. I'm not going to get into this story of an esteemed colleague. I guess the Federation seems to have launched a campaign a little earlier than in the rest of BiH and, if I look at it, I understand my colleague, given that recently, colleagues from other parties have put several initiatives on the agenda that also have a political and electoral character, so probably SDP to avoid being late going with such an initiative. The second reason is that we here have in principle made one agreement earlier that when we put the agenda on the agenda we will launch parliamentary initiatives. We thus give the subject a single dose of seriousness, give an opportunity to the Council of Ministers and Institutions of BiH to prepare the material and give us an opportunity for all of us to prepare ourselves seriously for this point. For this reason, I suggest that my colleague turn this into a parliamentary initiative and act as I and many colleagues here, who have tried to put something on the agenda, in the same way. It seems to me that only the SDP is trying to push some of the agenda points here. Of course, I respect that, it's their right, as I believe my colleague respects my right not to support their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28721	Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28722	Dear fellow Members, it is quite logical that the SNSD Club not only cannot support this proposal but also expresses regret that we are starting the session in this way. That the SDP is in crisis, it's visible. If this is all that remains of the proposal and this is the only thing they've been dealing with in preparation for the autumn work and if this is the only topic they've been waiting for for for this time to come to the BiH Parliament, then it's obviously a lack of material. I can also accept this observation that this is really about starting a pre-election campaign here in Sarajevo or in the Federation, so that it does, but yet it should not be the first place for the BiH Parliament to start the campaign. A series of inaccuracies, inaccuracies and things Mr. Bećirović has said is not good to be heard here. The story of Germany and France absolutely does not stand, because these names are not there and they do not prove themselves by calling each village a French village and that they are a state. No, they're not. Just because of this nonsense, questions about whether we're gonna be a state when we insist on this. They otherwise make a state and otherwise defend the state and state interests, not in this way. Will this discussion make a man in the center of Banja Luka whose largest and best catering facility is called "Bosnia" think differently? Probably, hopefully, they won't, they're serious people. But the fact that this and such an object is located with that name speaks of people's attitude to tradition and everything they bear names and how they are determined. All that is in accordance with the law and the legal procedure and the way it was implemented in the RS, where 5 representatives of other political parties, representatives of other peoples, institutions that care about respecting legality, where everyone has said theirs, I do not think that today is the place and time to be in this way, but here it is formally possible, formally a colleague Bećirović is right to use the business opportunity to put this point of the agenda for our consideration today. I can only ask him to give up and invite him to the Hotel Bosnia in Banja Luka to have coffee there and try to convince him that he's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28723	Denis Bećirović, raplica. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28724	Replica and Mr. Novaković and Kalabić. First, it is not true that we have never laid down laws adopted on a second level, or at a lower level here in the BiH Parliament. The real truth is that we have not yet had one case, at least in this term, that some level has reached for killing the name of its own state as it was done in the RS Parliament with a prefix of Bosnian. When it comes to whether or not the campaign started, I would remind my colleague Novaković that we launched this issue in December 2008, it is 2009, and the elections are only 2010. Therefore, this has nothing to do with the election campaign, but it has to do with a message from the BiH state for its future. About what counterpart Kalabić said, whether or not the SDP is in crisis, it would be better for Mr Kalabić to pay attention to whether the ruling coalition has brought this country into crisis or not, rather than to deal with one opposition party, true, the largest opposition party. So this isn't where the campaign started. The only thing I can agree with Mr. Kalabić is that indeed in Germany and France and every other country in a different way would defend the interests of the state than it defends here in BiH. And if the problem were just in the name of it, it would probably be a minor problem. The problem is that this is a far-reaching, long-term, dangerous message for the future of the BiH state when you want to root out its name on the territory of the country. And if it were an isolated case, it would be a minor problem again, but it's not an isolated case. In this country, there is a set of activities that go towards breaking this country down, destroying its integrity, and thus keeping this country from being disturbed by fascist organizations and threatening the citizens and the peoples of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28725	Replica, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28726	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite everyone to try according to the Rules of Procedure to begin the agenda of this session and not fall into the trap of replicas and the spread of topics. Only the last sentence, mentioned by honourable MP Bećirović, could cause at least 10 replicas. 6 I want to say that and so on. The soft violation of the Rules of Procedure is simply not appropriate for the start of the fall session of Parliament, because as far as I have heard, and I have not seen, the proposal for a agenda point was the negative consequences of the law. First of all, we are not discussing the law because the legal procedure has been completed, the House of Peoples of the Republic of RS has submitted an initiative, the Constitutional Court has said its own and that is the end of the procedure. Secondly, we have not received material about the negative consequences, and we do not know how you will quantify or qualify the negative consequences and translate it into the relevant material. The law itself is not material for the agenda point that you have proposed, and this did not create business opportunities to even discuss this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28727	Replica, we continue with the soft violation of the Rules of Procedure. Nice to Kalabić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28728	So I agree that we should really try to avoid to the extent possible, at least, this first day of work. I am sorry that counterpart Bećirović did not accept this call in Bosnia, here on Bosnian coffee. I, in order not to continue this controversy here, since his mayor is Sarajevo, I invite him to find something similar here in Sarajevo. Not to mention what Sarajevo is turning into with the SDP chief, that there are streets that the representatives of a nation are bypassing. Well, if it's far from Banja Luka, you find something that suits us here, which is something in that tone and again and again and with that kind of story we'll continue to talk about. I really won't comment on everything else, but whoever doesn't show it here on his own example, and you have a chance, and then we'll probably, according to that people's "that when someone sets up their own yard, then has the right to do a little bit and sing to others." And it's inappropriate now to open a story about Sarajevo, just reminding me that the mayor, here, is some mathematics, from the SDP that can show these examples to everyone else to look up to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28729	I'd really like to ask you not to waste any time. The man has suggested, the House will plead. However, of course, everyone always sees this as an opportunity, etc. But here we go. And I ask you to refrain, we've spent a lot of time, the Rules of Procedure has predicted, the man has suggested, we will plead, etc. Halid the Genjac. But there, everyone wants to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28730	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that item 3 of today's agenda be changed with a point that would be called: - Information from the Chair of the Council of Ministers on meeting the remaining obligations of the Roadmap for visa liberalisation. 7 Reason: As is known, the European Commission has delivered an Annex of additional commitments that can be realistically established that can be met by the end of September when the report seems very important for the BiH area. So, at the end of September, it is time for the report to be drawn up which would later be the reason for the expert teams' arrival in BiH and which would be particularly important with a meeting of the interior and justice ministers of European countries in late November and early December. The Anex obligation has personalized the responsibility of what needs to be done and I think that, as it is done, we are already at the beginning of September, that it is a matter of days when obligations are fulfilled, where there are problems, it is realistic to have them, and how the problems are intended to be solved. I don't think we should start any sessions in the future without this agenda point, and I think it's very important that, especially from the point of view of Parliament's obligations, because it is known that there is a "Law on the Central Anti-Corruption Body" and "The law on the co-operation of police agencies with regard to data exchange", the amendment of the Anti-discrimination Act. I think Parliament needs to get information on what this is about. If the Council of Ministers is unable to prepare these commitments, Parliament will see what to do with it, perhaps with an initiative from the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28731	Mr. Genjac, I highly appreciate your agility and initiative, etc. But here, for your information, I was in preparation for today's session trying to provide that information for today's session. However, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has asked to be left to him this week when he collects all the information on all these issues you are talking about. So the Criminal Law is over, he will go towards the Council of Ministers, this inter-resor working group related to the strategy and so on. You know all this as well as I do, but I don't think we'll be able to have this information today, but I have assurances of the Council of Ministers chairman, but for the next one, we'll have complete information, so I'm asking for patience. I have really tried and failed, or the conditions have not been met that we have something new compared to that. So please, thank you, I really do thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here, Mr. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, the international community, means of information, dear guests, I also wanted to shake up there, as they would say, to be the last debater when it comes to the agenda. I've said it once before, so I'd like to say again about the agenda and the way we lose 30 to 75 minutes each time around adopting the agenda needlessly. It is true that Article 65, which has been amended by the last amendments to the Rules of Procedure, said that the agenda item with the relevant material in written form can be proposed, but in practice it is known that the agenda points with an exceptional need and exceptional urgency are proposed at the session itself. Today I have not seen such proposals, but here, we cannot deny anyone to propose on the basis of this member of the Rules of Procedure, but I suggest and propose to my fellow Members and others that in the future – since the abuse of proposing agendas is at the session itself, 8 it is obvious that the abuse and promotion of certain people who do so – after the proposal of the agenda for the inclusion of that session, by someone, we are not commenting at all, but simply after saying whether or not we are, and through its three-minute explanation, we will conclude whether the point is really necessary to put that day on the agenda of that session. If it is, we'll vote for it; if it isn't, let's not waste time, because this really doesn't make sense that we're spending a quarter of the session on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28733	Here, looks like we're not spending any more. I'm in the middle of a debate on the agenda. So in relation to the established agenda, we have a one-point agenda, here's a reminder. So it's about Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović's proposal. The point would be to consider the negative consequences of the Law on the territorial organisation of the RS entity, which in the remaining two municipalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Ship of that entity was abolished prefix of Bosnian. Please prepare for the vote on the plea, or vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28734	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28735	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28736	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28737	I'll count your "yes" vote, be sure, in every variant. Mr. Erić, did you do this thing? Wrong. Can we? No, I don't. Okay, Mr. Denis Bećirović will raise his hand and I will. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! 24 "for", (23 Federation, one RS), 10 "against". We don't have an entity majority. We don't have the consent. We're going straight to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! We have two-thirds of the vote "against" from the RS. Therefore, the proposal to include the agenda item has not passed. 9 So let me remind you now of the agenda. So today's 59th session has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 58th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH – MPs Sefer Halilović, Vinko Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović, Velimir Jukić and Adem Huskić (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on free zones in BiH (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and co-operation with the International Criminal Court (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading); 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Law on Defence( firstreading) ;10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposing MP Adem Huskić (first reading); 11. Report from the Commission from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH - a proposal from the Council of Ministers (second reading); 12. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Party's MPs to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 13. Appointment of members of the BiH Regulatory Agency – Proposal for a Council of Ministers; 14. Declaration on the initiative of the SNSD Club MPs on the discussion at the House meeting Information on the effects (normal, regulatory and institutional benefits) of legal solutions transferred from entities to the level of joint bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 15. A statement on MP Mirko Okolić's initiative on the discussion at the House of Dot session "A consideration of the citizens' group's initiative on the founding of BiH's judicial authorities on the processing of war crimes at the time of the tragic war conflict on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory"; 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 41a) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (the Official Journal of BiH), No. 3709) – Proposal for a Joint College of both homes; 10 17. Having three members from the House of Representatives in order to achieve agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act. So this is the agenda we're going to be working on. Mr. Raguž, I have your name registered here. Martina, I have your name registered, did you? That's a mistake, isn't it? All right, all right. Let's go, point one, Ad. 1. Record of the 58th session
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28741	Well, I'll do it very briefly. I asked the 54th session: 'What are the reasons other than national, that public television with much more attention followed the champion of Germany's Wolsburg than the champion of BiH Zrinski from Mostar?' The answer to that question is sent to me by the Council of Ministers, in the following form: 'On the basis of information obtained from the Public TV Service', so I did not ask why the Public TV Service, but why the public television, 'in addition we provide you with an answer', and in reply it suits me, not even the Public TV Service, but BHT1. So, I repeat the question and ask the law to check what public television is in BiH and if one of them is found to have followed more Wolsfurg than Zrinski from Mostar, to answer me why it was so. I have knowledge and information that one of the three public television stations was more monitored by Wolfsburg, especially in direct transmissions than Zrinski Mostar – to answer me what reason this is other than national.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28742	Let's move on with the comments. Mirko Okolić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked an emergency or a question at the last session, "Why didn't I get answers to some of my questions?" And I got an answer and I have to comment on it, and then I'm going to comment and get one of the answers I got. In this memo of yours, it's probably by mistake, it says I got two answers. I've only got one, and I'd like it to be written down, so we don't have a problem afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28744	I apologize right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28745	Well, I, uh, about that leveling, I only got one, so for now. Furthermore, this memo by the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General, shows that a number of my parliamentary questions have not been received, which I am, behold, not to praise you, I highly doubt. I think that your service to Parliament, as far as I'm concerned, has sent it anyway, but somewhere it has a short date. They claim they haven't received them at all, which, I think, is very strange. ... The General Secretariat has been working on their actions, so it's urgating, and they say they haven't received them, etc. Then, in response to the questions asked by MP Mirko Okolić, the "General Secretariat by act number and the one from 3.10.2008 referred to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the Question" as mine, "for the sake of preparing the response proposal and, again, the 'urgenship 29.7' And here it is seen that I have set up the Council of Ministers and I am not interested in any ministry, none, which is part of the Council of Ministers. Come on, I can accept that it's some other institution, but that they urinate in their ministry as a Council of Ministers, which is really unserious and illogical to me. Furthermore, a parliamentary question since 18.3. asked from, let me say, an emergency because I couldn't say a better term, because since November of the month, I've been asking the State Property Commission for a certain position on certain issues there that don't matter what it's called at all, but it's important that since before New Year's, and because of their impunity, I've asked 18.3. to try to speed it up, because it's building a building in Doboy to solve the housing issue of families of dead fighters and wartimes. So their only statement needed to know whether it was possible to do it any further or not. And look now how long it's been waiting in line and then when the Doboj Municipality builds a building without their act because it's the silence of the administration, then they'll say that it's obviously not in line with what they wanted. Furthermore, when it comes to answering my 13.5 parliamentary question, I am not completely satisfied because I did not get an answer to the following. So I am not satisfied with the answer because the answer is avoided, which is why citizenship was given, when it was known about the trial in the Republic of Croatia and the possible consequences of giving that citizenship. The rest can be treated as an answer to what I've been looking for, but in this part where I've been looking for what it's given for, is it only given for formal-legal reasons, regardless of the consequences, possibly, 12 that could have happened. And I'm asking for an additional answer to this parliamentary question that I gave him at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28746	Commentary, Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28747	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have received a reply from the Council of Ministers to two parliamentary questions and I have a need to comment on both received answers. At the 48th session, I asked the question of the total number of powerful rulings on the burden of the budget at all levels of government whose execution has been delayed indefinitely, in accordance with entity laws on the postponement of enforcement of powerful judgments. The answer I got at the very least is unserious, and the data presented in the answer doesn't correspond to the actual state of affairs, it would rather be said that they've been thrown off the grid, not based on insight into the verdicts. Even if, in response, there are no data on the judgments of the municipal courts in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Travnik, the total cash amount was settled in 1,325 solutions on the suspension of the executive procedure initiated on the basis of the powers of judgments, the amount on the burden of the budget listed here from 22,626,000 KM is far greater and unreal. According to the information I have, this amount of powerful verdicts, whose execution has been delayed, has only been recorded in the UN-San canton. Similarly, data on the franco-hand are given in part of the response related to 1,400 cases against BiH that have been launched by citizens of BiH before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. The netačan fact is that the total amount of money claims made to BiH on the basis of these claims, which were under the procedure of around 9 million KM when two years ago, the figure was officially higher by nearly ten times. I am therefore unsatisfactory with the answer obtained, and I ask that this question be answered again and that instead of the courts, the information on the delayed execution of the powerful verdicts is required from the budget at all levels of government. At the 54th session, I also asked the Council of Ministers about the obligation to develop information on the state of property of the BiH state, its companies and citizens in the countries that had been disintegrated by the former SFRY and, of course, activities on its protection and return to legal owners. I have received a response from the Council of Ministers to this question from which it is apparent that the effort has been made and that certain activities have been initiated in this regard. But I must say that I am completely disappointed with the answer that this late has been approached by legal activities to protect BiH's assets in neighbouring countries and that so little has been taken for such a serious and valuable issue as BiH's assets outside BiH. I am disappointed to know that throughout the past period the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia have in all ways obstructed, and today they are obstructing, the return of BiH's property, and we in BiH have returned their property to BiH in a record-breaking manner. Imagine, in order to maintain BiH's attractive property on the Adriatic, the Republic of Croatia declared the same according to the regulation as cultural and historical monuments, so cultural-13 historical monuments became not only villas and houses but gardens and infertile land located in attractive locations on the Adriatic. I am therefore not satisfied with the response I received, because I did not get an answer when this parliament will receive the requested information on the state and status of BiH's assets, its companies and citizens in the countries that have fallen apart from the former SFRY. I'm afraid now definitely that once we get this information, if we get it at all, everything will be a shame that the institutions of this country didn't take action in time to protect what belongs to this country and its citizens. Instead of a new answer, I ask that the Council of Ministers make additional efforts, that MPs of this home and the public, within which I leave, receive the requested information on the state and status of BiH's assets in the countries that have fallen apart from the former SFRY. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28748	Let's move on with the comments. Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28749	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I am obliged to comment on the letter of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and on the request of this Parliament to deliver material, i.e. consider the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Report on the way in which the report of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection on the criminal offence committed against several persons from the RS was submitted. I find the BiH prosecutor's letter extremely inappropriate. This letter shall show only under which number of protocols this case has been entered and against how many persons the procedure has been carried out. I ask that Parliament repeat its request to the Prosecutor's Office and that this occasion be called upon by the responsible person from the BiH Prosecutor's Office to, unless he can or does not know how to make written correspondence with the state's legislative authority, come and orally explain what this home has demanded to be delivered to him in the form of a written report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28750	Jozo Križanović, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28751	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to comment on the Ministry of Justice's answer to the question I have raised regarding the non-restitution law, i.e. denationalisation and all the adverse consequences of the move of the law. In fact, on the central issue, I've asked a few questions. We are witnessing that after the war there is a quiet restitution where we have an example of the return of property to certain institutions and individuals, and all of this happens without any legal basis. In response to question 14, I received a lesson in which laws were dealt with, i.e. the laws in force regarding the protection of state property. And at the end of the answer, it is said that only the Ministry of Justice will actually come into contact with institutions at all levels of government and ask for answers to the questions asked -- to whom property has been returned so far, on which basis, which is the value, to which individuals etc. So from all this, I want to say that it's been a very long time, but that the answer can conclude that it's just going to work to complete the answer. Here, in the end, and I realize that I'm not happy with the answer and that I'm just expecting the answer to the question and I'm expressing the discontent that it's been a very long time and that nothing was actually working on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28752	Niko Lozančić, commentary, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28753	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the 52nd session of the House of Representatives, I asked the question: 'The foundations of which and what standards are it forbidden for police officers in our country to carry official weapons outside of formal working hours, etc.'? I received answers from which I concluded that the only standard was one of the 2000 IPTF instructions. So, I know there's an IPTF instruction, but I'm interested in answering competent institutions – based on what standards? I will remind you, today in BiH, owned by BiH citizens legally has several tens of thousands of firearms, that probably 10-20 per cent has illegal weapons. And in such a security environment, we, based on one instruction, have accepted all of them, and I have received a quality technical response: in all BiH law enforcement institutions, we have accepted a standard in which we have forbidden police officers or law enforcement officers to carry firearms outside of formal working time, in a country where the waiter is being killed because they will not serve a drink and in which organised shootings take place, it doesn't matter where more, but we listen every day, in which citizens are forced to go out into the streets to seek protection. So, I also want to say here because of them: the standards were not prescribed by BiH institutions, we obviously just blindly accepted everything that someone tells us is good for us. I don't think this is good, I think this is harmful to security in BiH, harmful to the safety of police officers, and then others they should protect. And I'm going to ask, I don't know, I know this isn't an opportunity through this issue, but to suggest to the competent ministry, to the competent ministries in this country, to analyse this decision and to base this judgment on the security situation or not to change it. Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28754	Here, we have another comment, Šefik Džaferović. So, Adem Huskić, let's go with the comments further.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28755	I'm not, I'm a new question. _________(?) /Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28756	Have you finished the dialogue? Can I move on? Thank you. Are these also reported for comments or questions? Any comments? Ekrem Ajanović, is it new questions? So let me get this over with first. Any more comments? There isn't. Let's get some new questions. In turn, Ekrem Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28757	Come on, ademe, you want to go before, it doesn't matter. Mr. President,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28758	Computers are a miracle, Ademe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28759	My colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28760	Please listen to each other, please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28761	I'm asking the Ministry of Security and the Department of Justice. On the 26th on the 28th. 8. In 2009, in Jelah, Tešanj Municipality, Beširević (Huseina) Dježahire and her children from her house were brutally engaged. In the absence of an unfair court ruling, I ask the following questions: '1. On whose orders did the police get a warrant the day before a certain raid break into a house named after an alleged weapon? 2. Is the police intervention conducted under the legal procedure or has it exceeded the authority? 3. What will competent institutions do to introduce intervention into legal procedures, and if over-authorization is established, what will they do to the prisoners?" 16 Explanation: Beširević Dževahir in the divorce case received a house in Jelah, which had passed over the catastrian and grantically into its possession. In addition, here is this latest copy of the cadastra and the garland. The Court of Justice in Tešnja put the house in bankruptcy for the debts of her ex-husband. The court has ordered a arraignment appointed for the 27th day. 8. In 2009. It's a very questionable decision, I won't comment on it. Court or some other police, in the number of 60 members, the night before the raid, that means 26. 8. In 2009, she violently entered a house named without a warrant and acted roughly. The epilogue of this - she was appointed to have a psychiatric-vascular, or cardiac stress and was brought to the Internal Department, intensive care at the hospital in Tešnja. According to her statement, the police dragged the same thing around the country, and three masked officers kept it in front of intensive care so as not to commit any crime. According to eyewitnesses, all police officers were masked and rudely treated by members of the Beširević family, so the people of Jelah spontaneously intervened to protect the appointed family and blocked the Doboj road – Banja Luka. That's why I asked this question to give me answers... about the police and the court's behaviour.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28762	Thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28763	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I have a question for the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Transport and Communications. I recently asked this question at a joint session of both homes and as if I knew which way things were going to go when it came to the realization of the most important project in this country at all, not only in this country, but in the entire region – Project Corridor Vc. My question is: "Is the latest decision of the government of the Federation of BiH on the radical change in the course of the southern section of Corridor Vc, taken at the final session of the government, despite all the ministers of the Croatian people's order being against, which speaks enough about the character of this decision, means, and in my opinion, the blockade of the realization of the most significant state project in the country's recent history and the possibility that BiH will soon join the already completed routes of the most significant European corridors?" Reason: For already defined routes, meaning on the north, middle and south of the movement of this corridor, complete documentation, according to the earlier decisions of the competent institutions and bodies, was to be completed by 31. Seven this year. Let me remind you that this meant the possibility of tendering and starting work by the end of this year at the latest. The funds for these works were approved by the contracts BiH signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank worth 400m euros. These funds are operational, but they have delayed... this year and on them BiH, or its citizens are already paying 0.5% per month, although these funds have not been withdrawn. 17 So these are clear and precise questions and I think it's time for clear and precise answers and the end of the game of hidden players. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28764	Thank you very much. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28765	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, I have one brief question to the Council of Ministers, or to the competent foreign trade ministry and economic relations. It reads: 'How long will the Council of Ministers and the Competent Ministry tolerate illegalities in the work of the Plant Control Agency and... the establishment of this agency that is too much needed for the export of Bosnian Herzegovina goods, together with the Veterinary Office and the Food Control Agency?' Irregularities shall be seen in the reception of personnel, purchases of vehicles, spending of funds, official travel, etc. which for three years has been consistent with the BiH Audit Office, which has not changed until today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28766	Thank you. The next question is Ambassador Mirko Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28767	Thank you very much, Chairman. My parliamentary question refers to the following. From the means of information, I learned that the Municipality council of Grude Branimir Glavaš had assigned construction land for the purposes of its construction. On this basis, I ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to answer: 'Is it true that Branimir Glavaš was assigned building land by the Municipality of Gruda and for what purposes? If so, I ask for an answer on whose land and under what conditions did they assign and on what merit did the land receive? Did he get credit as a BiH citizen and credit for BiH, or did he get credit from the war past, which was tried for war crimes against Srbin in Croatia, and yet, if true, in the state of BiH where the Serb people are one of the constituent people in that country?" Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28768	Thank you. Next question, honourable MP Slavko Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28769	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, my question is aimed at the Directorate for indirect taxation: 'What are the reasons why the Directorate for indirect taxation is playing roughly with individual employees such as Ivica Kopić, Miroslav Martinović, Ilija Damjanović, Marko Đura, Josić Josic and some others?' A brief explanation: These five employees, by the way, employed at the border crossings of Shamac and Oresje, and these days they came to me with a request to assist them according to our capabilities. These five customs officials were fired as a surplus several years ago in the reorganisation process, although a parallel in the process of reorganisation was received by brand-new employees. Two years ago, these five workers were returned to work but with solutions for a certain period of time (these solutions were extended to different time periods and thus collected a total of 23 months). According to their interpretation, they say they have accumulated 24 months, based on the Treaty on Working indefinitely, they would have gained automatic right to work indefinitely. But these days they want to be fired again, and the process of receiving new employees continues at the same time, because the transactions at the customs crossings have not... decreased, they have not stopped. It is important to note that these employees have all the necessary school and expertise, have ten years of customs experience, passed professional exams, completed the necessary training and education, and it is really incomprehensible this manner of management towards them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28770	Thank you. Next question, honourable Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28771	Thank you very much. Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have two parliamentary questions today. The first question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers: 'What is the total cost of the Commission's work on state property until the time of its denomination by the High Representative and whether the funds allocated for the work of this commission will be returned to the budget, since it has not only failed to carry out the list of state assets but has not been able to agree on the very concept of state property?' 19 The Commission for State Property was formed by the Council of Ministers with the task of agreeing on state property issues and, of course, organising its list. Since the issue is one of the key to BiH's European path and there has been no progress in the work of this commission, the High Representative for BiH has denomined this commission and placed the list of state assets in OHR's remit. The Commission for State Property during its long-term work not only did it not carry out a list of state assets but... did not reach agreement on the concept of state property. After all, the question of morality and the basicity of the costs that its members have charged for their work, i.e. the reluctantness. The second question is the BiH Council of Ministers Civil Affairs Minister: "How many in BiH are currently suffering from swine flu? What is being organised to suppress swine flu in BiH? Is this about building a unique strategy against swine flu in BiH? Are there any prescribed rules of conduct or suggestions for BiH citizens travelling outside BiH and are there rules for those entering BiH from abroad, especially from countries and regions with a higher risk of passing swine flu?" These are the questions that citizens ask daily and which, I think, at this point, we do not have valid and rational answers. We are personally witnessing various issues and dilemmas every day when individuals and groups from BiH should travel abroad and when we should welcome guests or BiH citizens returning from abroad. I think that in this situation at least it would be responsible and rational for citizens having answers to these issues and other issues and that BiH has a strategy to combat the alarming invasion of this disease that is causing great concern around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28772	Željko Kuzmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28773	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I am taking the opportunity to ask two parliamentary questions. The first question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, and it reads: "How much of the funds, as of 31 August 2009, were withdrawn from the stand-by arrangement with the IMF and where were these funds rerouted, or spent?" And the second question I would like to refer to the Council of Ministers and the Statistical Agency of BiH, and it says, "Is there any information as to how many of the fired workers are in the structure from the beginning of 2000 to 2009 of younger people from 35 years of age?" I ask the question because of the fact that there has been a firing policy in BiH so far based on the LIFO method, i.e. "last in, first out", which directly affected the younger population, and I am afraid that is the case now.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28774	Lazar Prodanović. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28775	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, ministers and guests, I would like to refer my question to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'As the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the Information on the Work Plan of the Co-ordination Team for lead and campaign for non-permanent BiH membership in the UN Security Council 2010. – 2011 as well as the proposal for an action plan for BiH institutions in the lobbying process for BiH's non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council received the latest update in February of this year, and is already entering the final stage of campaigning, as an election session of the UN General Assembly will follow in October this year, please answer me: To what extent are the plans of the planned activities in the previous period realised? First of all, I am interested in what human potentials the Foreign Ministry, diplomats, plans to direct for this very important BiH activity at the UN headquarters in New York." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28776	Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28777	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs and guests, I'm going to ask a short parliamentary question that I've already asked, but I didn't get an answer until the end, so in some elements I'm going to repeat it, and in some elements I'm going to give some new elements. I am asking parliamentary questions to the Council of Ministers, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Namely, it is a problem of the work of seven cultural institutions established by BiH. These are the Earth Museum, the History Museum, the Museum of Literature and Theatre Art, the Art Gallery, the National and University Library, the Cinematheque of BiH and the Library for Blind and Failing Persons. The issue has been repeatedly before the Council of Ministers and I have personally asked a parliamentary question regarding the management and financing of these institutions. Since in some of these events certain illegalities are being followed – and the legality of the work is being followed by the ministry, in this case the Ministry of Civil Affairs – I would like to be given an answer to the following questions: ‘If the term of director has expired in October 2006, and this has been established by the competent labour inspection, is the current director still the legal director, and if not, who has extended his mandate or has a new person appointed to perform his duty? The situation is similar in all seven other BiH culture institutions." Secondly: 'Will financial control of financial operations be carried out in these institutions, because there is a reasonable doubt that some have committed crime and that some have even been reported?' And thirdly, who and when will appoint the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board? 21 In addition to this question, I also deliver one report of the Labour Inspectorate which speaks of illegalities in the History Museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28778	Husein Nanić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28779	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, members of the Council of Ministers, I would like today to ask a parliamentary question to the Federal Ministry of Finance, and that is my responsibility by citizens from my constituency who in no other way can come up with information about his right to be asked by the Federal Ministry of Finance. It is a request for the verification of old foreign exchange savings and this request is addressed to the Agency for Finance, Information and Intermediate Services, D.D. Sarajevo, the Bihac Business, which has reached a solution that the request is rejected. The solution is allowed to appeal to the Federal Finance Ministry within 15 days, as the party has done. The complaint was sent on 28.11.2006. Given that it has been 46 months since the appeal, and the Federal Ministry of Finance has not responded to the same request, and that the party by telephone or by any other means cannot obtain information on the status of its case, has asked me to ask the MP questions this way: 'What is the status of the claim for appeal of the party mentioned?' (His name is here in the request, not to mention). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28780	Let's move on, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28781	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, to make a little joke, after two years, I first went to the sea following me, and to the sea of BiH, and I must say that there have been a series of questions that I am asking in this section today. In accordance with Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, I ask the following parliamentary questions: 'In the formation of the Neum Municipality, and on the basis of the work of the Interrepublic Expert Commission of BiH and Croatia, the work of the Port Captain Neum was determined, and this also meant the setting of borders at sea between Croatia and BiH. On the basis of these documents, the SRBiH Assembly made a decision on these issues and published it in official messengers from 1979 and 22 1980, respectively, in the Official Messenger of BiH. According to this decision, there were no objections from the SR of Croatia, which was considered to have been accepted by the SR of Croatia. I ask the question: "When will this decision officially be registered as an official border at sea?" I ask the question to the BiH Presidency and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Second question: 'After the official publication of the border at sea published in BiH's official messengers in '79. And the '80s. the year, which was also the permanent obligation of the official ministry, all the legal and sublegal acts in this area have been passed. I ask the question: When will these acts officially apply because they are not put out of force? And second: When will the Port Captain in Neum be equipped professionally and quality and filled with relevant professional personnel? As this area in all maritime states belongs to the state, on a state level, so should this Port Authority be raised to this level." I ask the question to the Ministry of Transport and Communications and I seek the answer in writing. The third question is: 'How is maritime well, it means sea with land, which counts as the largest... treasure... of 6 meters, permanently devasts, usurps, and it is state property, I ask the question: When will urgent legal measures be taken to protect it?' I'm asking for an answer from the Department of Transport and Communications. And the fourth question: 'The road from the intersection in Capljina through Sweetava to Neum is in catastrophic condition. If it is known that this only path that goes all the way through BiH and does not cross borders, I ask the question: What will and when will the activities in the reconstruction of this direction be launched?' I'm looking for an answer in writing from the Department of Transport and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28782	Adem Huskić
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honored guests, I have two questions that are actually connected. The first is: 'How many persons convicted of illegal forest cuttings are found in the maintenance of a prison sentence?' And the second question is, "How many people convicted of serious crimes are waiting for a prison sentence for lack of prison capacity?" People on the ground tell me that there's one manipulation here, that these heavy criminals can't go to jail because there's no room, and these little chickens can always. Now we need to see, here's an answer from the Council of Ministers to see how these data is. Thank you very much. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28784	Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28785	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, colleagues and esteemed guests, I have one question, was already a colleague of Genjac, for the Council of Ministers: "When will the Council of Ministers put on the agenda the remaining laws from the Map of Path and refer them to parliamentary procedure?" At the end of July, we had a session here, and everyone was in favor of doing it as soon as possible. Look, we didn't do anything. We said we'd all make the most of it. Citizens in the field, at least at my place in Krajina, wondering what you're doing up there, what you're not bringing. People want to travel, they want freedom of movement, not isolation. In my opinion, the Council of Ministers is most responsible and let it do its job, and it is up to us to spend it here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28786	Šefik Džaferović
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28787	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat, in fact, insist on answering one question that I keep asking in the BiH Parliament, because it tells me about the relations between BiH and neighbouring countries. So this in the most eloquent way speaks in itself about BiH's and neighbours' relations -- it's a matter of state borders. You can't have good neighbourly relations or at least say you have good neighbourly relations and avoid concluding a state border contract with BiH, laying down demands of this kind or that kind. It is the fourteenth year after Dejton, eighteen years after BiH's international recognition, and BiH still has no completion of state border contracts with neighbouring countries. The information that I have and that we all have, therefore, is general information: that there are problems in concluding a contract with Serbia and Croatia, and that when it comes to Montenegro, there is something going on here, but we do not have complete information. What concerns me and I ask the question is the feeling I have, which is that our institutions, especially the Council of Ministers, are not doing everything they should do when it comes to the conclusion of these contracts. Therefore, I ask the Council of Ministers to give us all here the answer: "What precise activities have the Council of Ministers undertaken in this year 2009 at the conclusion of a contract on the state border of BiH and neighbours by the Council of Ministers?" That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28788	I, too, have also reported Mr. Bajazit Jašarević and Mr. Milorad Živković. 24 So, Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28789	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to ask the question of the BiH Appeals Office: 'How many complaints have been made about the procurement procedure between 1 January 2009 and 31 August 2009 and how many of the complaints have been filed? How many complaints were settled within the legal time limit? What is the average time to settle complaints in 2009? How many pending complaints from the previous period are left, and until when will all outstanding complaints from the earlier period be resolved? What measures will the Office of Appeal achieve an up-to-date settlement of complaints within the time limit laid down?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28790	And, as I announced, we still have Mr. Živković's question and, in this way, after an hour and 20 minutes, conditions are being reached to get on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28791	Thank you. On several occasions here in Parliament, we discussed the difficult state of the DKP network and indicated that it was the face of BiH in the world and that BiH's image is seriously disrupting with that state. I'm only going to give two examples where it's drastically and reinforced, so it hasn't improved, it's even stronger. This is an example of Brisel where our mission in Brussels to NATO has only one man who is also an ambassador and driver and a technical face and everything else, where there is no accompanying communication equipment, either with Sarajevo, or with NATO's own organisation in Brussels. And another example, an example of Australia, where we only have one envoy for jobs at our embassy in Australia and no more employees. For one continent with a large number of BiH citizens, the question is whether at least these two places I mentioned recently will improve the situation because it seriously undermines BiH's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28792	Thank you. So, as I just said, we're closing this agenda point. Let's move on, so point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH 25 ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's nothing. Let's move on. So point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28795	He's got a Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28796	There is Mr. Džaferović, please respond immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28797	I apologize to you, Chairman. I've been doing two jobs at the same time, looking for this wrapper where my file was, and at the same time, looking for a key here, so I missed that one second, right, after you. It is the law, I am speaking on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, which is on the line of requests and recommendations of the members of the GRECO countries, under which BiH should complete its existing Immunity Act or its existing immunity system by prescribing the procedure for the application of the existing immunity system. So, this law does not affect the essence of the issue, the content of immunity, the type of immunity, it all remains as it is now in the BiH legal system. Only procedures are prescribed and the Commission has decided that this law should also be supported in the second reading. That's it, thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28798	In any case, this has been useful, a kind of incentive for us to declare this law. So I'm closing the debate on point 3. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on freedom of access to information in BiH (second reading) You know what I'm saying, Proposers. So this law is also in second reading. We adopted it in our first reading at the 58th session. Procedures shall be followed by a summary procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission report we also received 27. We don't have an amendment here, either. Is there any sign-up for discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point 4. We're going to point 5, so "Ad." 5. Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28801	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I would like to welcome the efforts to pass this law because I appreciate that it is very much needed by BiH and that it could contribute to better employment and better productivity and economic activity in these difficult times. What I wanted to comment on here is two members of this law. The first member is the 9th member who speaks about the appointment of the Commission, or what the Commission is doing. I don't know if anyone from the Ministry who has proposed this law is present, where attitude (1) says 'that the Commission of Article 6(1) of this Law forms the Ministry, by one representative of the Ministry, the Office for Direct Taxation of BiH, the Ministry of Entity of Spatial Planning and the local government of the Canton, or the municipality, or Brcko District of BiH', etc. I think this place is way too wide. Perhaps, to be ironic, they would go to the local community and 27 branches in the local community. I think there's too much and unnecessary administration here and it's complicated. And next thing you know, I'd like to make it clear here what this is about, what authority of the local government. It says "and local canton authorities, or municipalities." Does it mean the canton and the municipalities or the community itself? I think the canton would certainly be too high here in this process. And the next thing I'd like the Ministry to consider before the final adoption of this law is Article 20. The implementing rules that define "the foreign trade and economic relations ministry of BiH will adopt, within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, an implementing regulation". I think that if we take into account the other deadlines set out in this law that the six-month deadline is too long and should be shortened and therefore I should appeal to the Ministry to consider the possibility of this deadline being shorter, given... the other deadlines that I would not mention here which are also incorporated into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28802	Here, I apologize, just to remind you, so we're discussing the bill's proposal in the first reading. It is very good that the resolution minister is here and I believe that he will closely monitor this debate and make sure that, in the meantime, until the second reading, when we have the amendment phase, etc., together we come to the best possible text, of course. Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28803	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, guests, I welcome you all. Here, I'll talk about this law for a while. It's a good thing we have a chance to talk about this law today, but it's not a good thing they haven't done it before. Namely, if you have carefully read the argument, then it clearly states that the current laws of the second and third years are now in force, that they do not comply with EU standards, but neither with the applicable Customs Policy Act in BiH. So the question arises, what are the adverse consequences of this condition. Whatever they may be, it's time for them to stop as soon as possible. And it will stop as soon as we pass this law because it says here in its reasoning, too, that 'the solutions in this law are in line with EU standards', so it is also called for to be laid down here by European customs regulations, etc. I would still like to comment on two solutions, two things that may help me to eventually identify myself and some amendment to fix this law if necessary. Article 8(3) states that "compulsory companies which establish these free zones are obliged to export at least 50% of their products outside the customs territory of BiH". Now my question is: is this also in line and is this the standard in other EU countries? Because this is a very important criterion, because later on in an article that speaks, this is Article 15, about the termination of work is called for this standard and then it is said, means 'free zone stops working if it is established that the value of goods that 28 leaves the free zone of BiH for export in two consecutive periods in 12 months falls below 50%'. So this, I think, is very important and important to correctly define because this depends on both lifespan and the work of a single customs zone. Of course it's good and useful to get a law like this. I think the law is quite simple and the conditions for obtaining permission are also liked, well and properly solved. I think that the composition, unlike my colleague, of Mr. Nanić's predecessor, is good, because it includes all those important institutions that are actually interested and invited to regulate this issue by the nature of their work and existence. Do you need a county or a community itself? It's a little doubt, maybe that's what needs to be specified. Secondly, I don't think I have any grudges. So I think it's a good idea to support a bill like this because it's really going to provide one encouraging way for our entrepreneurs and business people to set up these zones and use all the benefits of these zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28804	Bakir Izetbegović
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28805	... deadlines for opening, for the start of free zones, are prescribed 12 months in Article 12, and then Article 15 says "if it does not start working within 12 months of the date of adoption of the ministry's solution, the free zone ceases work". [[Shortly disabled microphone]] I think the deadlines are short, because if you want to create some more serious objects, so you do projects, so you get permits, so you build an object, you build a technical reception and use a permit, for a more serious object it takes you 24 months at least, so I suggest you think about the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28806	Let's move on, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28807	Dear Chairman, honourable representatives and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and the media, of course, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good that so many MPs have come forward for the discussion regardless of what we have law and that we are discussing principles. But I have to tell you that we have just spoken on the Commission about these topics and today I will invite you all to be as active as possible in the amendment phase and to improve the text of this law. I must really commend our competent ministry here, which has prepared a new text. We have mostly done changes and additions to certain laws so far. We had a law like this, but in 2004, it stopped, it was inadmissible. That's the problem of this country in many laws. So we have some laws that are in force, which are not applicable at all, because of certain changes in the EU, to comply with EU laws. 29 What is good, I repeat, is that the competent ministry made an effort to draw up a new text and when we had representatives of this ministry on our commission, all the members of the Commission suggested, and I advocated, it was not good for me to clarify the representatives of the ministry who said that Montenegro was the most left in this legislative activity. I welcome that. I'm glad the countries around are going. But I've pointed out to them, and I'm going to repeat today because of the public and you, and I want us to go beyond Montenegro. If they're gonna be our role model and the Russian tycoons who bought it, now that I'm not going into another country, I don't care what they did down there, I want us to have the best law, and this is gonna be a good law. And I only answered for the discussion to invite you colleagues who are actively involved in the debate today to use this time to improve the text of this law by amendments, because we need him. Let's say one word out there, 'that a free zone can be established along the highway.' So not every village and every local community will have their own free zone! So what we need to define as clearly as possible, and that is why it's good to have him today in this first-reading procedure. We supported the principles, and that you, I repeat, dear colleagues, take active participation and that we amend it together with the Ministry that must have made a great deal of effort to win this law, because we are indisputably in need of it. Now, will this proportion be about 50% of the exports and imports? Well, I'd be delighted if they were to export 100% of the goods that would be there. But we will see how things will take place, I repeat and conclude, the most important thing is that this law gets a pass-by in Parliament, and I hope that without any problems in the amendment phase, of course, all these stages, in the final form of second reading, will receive the support of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28808	But here, Slavko, to hear Mirko Okolić, the man of the line came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28809	Yeah, I answered the line so there wouldn't be any confusion. Mr. Jovičić said that we had the Law on Free Zones in BiH that stopped valid in 2004, that is a mistake. We also have today a law that applies... which is such that it is not worth changing and supplementing because we should change it over 50% and therefore it is proposed to pass a new law. In 2004, more specifically, 31.12. ceased to apply the BiH Customs Policy Act concerning the law. So, just to make sure there's no mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28810	Okay, this is fine. Slavko, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28811	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28812	Still, let me get this straight. All right, here you go. So, an explanation of the correction of the wrong assumption. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28813	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. Let me get this straight. Well, I didn't say he wasn't, he wasn't applicable, I repeat. He existed but was not applicable because many things, not five years ago when he was in force, happened, happened a month ago, five days ago -- the EU for the next two months, I'm talking about the future. Let's not just look at the finger in front of our noses what we're going to do today, what the EU is going to ask us to do. I'm saying it wasn't applicable and we need this new text. Are we clear, Mr. Okolić? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28814	I think you're both close, but you're not completely, but okay. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28815	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll speak for the club, the reaction was because I respected the order of the reported debaters. Dear members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers, representatives of the resolution ministry, here, let me mention at the outset that the Party for BiH will support the said law. Although some previous debates have entered the metrics of discussion, I will remind you only that it is principles, so first reading of the law, so that I will try to refrain from the individual provisions of this law that enter into the content, and when there is a second reading, or procedure in the second reading, we will react as planned and the procedure. But let me mention and point out exactly this problem that has already been discussed, which is a kind of legal vacuum that has been brought into force by a law that has not been applied. Here, I'll just remind you that in Article 19 of this law, I am standing by to enter into force of this law, so the law of which it is, ceases to apply the Free Zones Act. So, only when this law comes into force is it ceases to apply. It also states in the light of this law that the applicable law is linked to the Customs Policy Act, which expired on 31.12.2004. Here, perhaps one lesson that when we have such a conflicted solution that since 1 January 2005, since its application, a law on the placing out of force of the applicable law on customs policy was to be passed. One suggestion and, of course, the question. Since there is a hierarchy of legal regulations that is listed here by the Customs Policy and Free Zones, what happened in the meantime? We had a valid law, we still have a Free Zone Act that couldn't have been applied since 1 January 2005. Since 1 January 2005, whether any free zone has been established, i.e. under which provisions existing free zones have functioned, under the provisions of which law, because it is very important, given the fact that it did not respond in time to put the existing law out of force. 31 So now we have absurd. As long as we don't end the procedure for this bill, we have a valid law that no one can say doesn't apply until the procedure is procedured, right, that's what they're supposed to do. So, we will support the principles, with one note. I respect the Commission... for foreign trade and customs and there is indeed room for this commission to give its position on this law, but also given the role and role played by the Directorate for Direct Taxation and in general the general system of indirect taxation which, among other things, and the Customs Policy Act was addressed to the Finance and Budget Commission, I propose to the College to include in the next iteration and the Finance and Budget Commission in the procedure, it is very important. So, I also appreciate that, for further procedure, we have a special opinion of the Directorate for indirect taxation that is missing this time. I don't know, at least the MPs were left behind, I don't know if the College's opinion came, because laws like this are important and the opinion of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and given that, as the Ministry here has explained, it is about harmonising with European legislation in this area, I also remind the importance of the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. In this regard, therefore, our proposals are also going to include the Commission for Finance and Budget for the next phase of the examination of this law, so that the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Directorate for European Integration, is to include the Commission for Finance and Budget, and that it is apparent that the Ministry of Foreign Trade has been able to establish free zones, i.e. according to which regulations have funcioised free zones during the period when the Customs Policy Act is practically suspended from applying the applicable Free Zone Act. I also want to point out that we have technical problems here, and in that sense, I appreciate that others will probably react, and we will react in the second phase. And when it comes to content, which some have already been manifested, here is just to mention that we too will be manifested in the next phase of the amendment to some of the provisions provided for by this law, starting with the facts, let's say, as is said here in the provisions 'in two consecutive periods'; unless the key provision for more than 50% of exports is respected, 'two consecutive periods', as this law says, means 24 months. What can happen in 24 months in a free zone, and that's not supposed to be sanctioned here, which in article 18 regulated this law, I think we should pay special attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28816	We still have Mehmed Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28817	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs on this law, was led by a very extensive debate and one of the issues was that, when we had the law, why we did not go to changes and additions rather than to the making of a new law and the answer was roughly in this explanation that was already given here, with one question whether this law was in line with European standards, standards in the EU... The European Partnership. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to that question on the Commission, and my proposal was to send this to the European Integration Directorate, because this is exactly what it can do when it is reviewed and looked at by law, to see compliance with EU law. 32 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28818	When it comes to the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, it is the obligation of the Council of Ministers. But here I am asking Mr Zirojević if there is any need for some kind of comment, clarification. Here you go, Mr. Zirojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28819	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that you agree in the assessment that this law should have been passed long ago and to arrange this area with an amendment or amendment or a new law, but it is certainly unacceptable that this law, in force in the free zones law, is not in accordance with the Customs Policy Act, which is nevertheless the strongest legal act defining the area of customs policy. He hasn't been in agreement for a long time, and you mentioned the date yourself. The Customs Policy Act, the first to be adopted under that name, ceased to apply in 31.12.2004 and certain provisions of the now applicable Free Zones Act are not in agreement with the now applicable Customs Policy Act. Therefore, it is simply undeniable that the area should have been brought into line with the Customs Policy Act and in line with European standards. I would briefly comment on all the comments and suggestions. Mr. Nanić's application, in my opinion, is that we have stated as a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts which will further simplify and define certain conditions which should not be defined by law itself, to be reduced to three months, although I personally do not respond to the excessive programme of work of the Council of Ministers. I'm talking about some 80 programming assignments. You're making a parallel to the other ministries, so you'll see it's almost twice as much as any ministry. The 19 laws themselves and 30 sublegal acts and agreements are really too much, but here I am going to try and agree with that observation that these sublegal acts are passed within three months. I also support and welcome Mr Izetbegović's remarks, because it is easy to say someone who intends to become the founder of a free zone in a place like High where only our free zone works so far, where there is built infrastructure – it is easy to start a job there. If he has any serious intentions, let me say, to get off the meadow and start up again and build up the infrastructure and start a job, it's gonna take him 24 months. Here, and I accept that as one truly valid remark. As for the commentary of Ms Hadžiahmetović, the basic remarks and the basic differences, let's say, this now applicable law that we are proposing, is in that, here, the Council of Ministers has so far given consent to the opening of a free zone, meaning only giving consent, and now direct Council of Ministers in a certain prescribed procedure determines parts of the customs area. So that's where he says he can be made. Why hasn't the law been passed since 1.1.2005? Really, don't ask me, you know when I got into this function. I have indeed tried as much as I can and within the limits of my 33 possibilities to run things in many segments. You've known since the story of ATA Carnet. Here we are finally on the verge of signing this important convention, the Istanbul Convention, which simplifies and regulates temporary imports in another way. Well, this is one of those activities, too. You know that since I led this important ministry, there have been some changes and additions to the law that simply articulate the demands of the economy and there will be more, it just has to. Otherwise, only dealing with goods, procedures that can be approved for goods entering a free zone, that they will be and are already defined by the Customs Policy Act and the Implementing Regulation and other sublaws, and we appreciated that simply this matter should not have been further developed here. This law that is now in force, you will see, in its text, also mentions former entity customs administrations and the Customs Administration of the Brcko District. It's nonses, they haven't existed in years. Their powers have been transferred to the level of the Directorate for indirect taxation. I don't know, really, if I skipped something from the comments of honourable MPs, here I am again, standing at my disposal. But I think it's really about good law, that it's about taking over European standards and supporting it. Of course, it can be done in the amendment procedure, and I welcome your intention. Hala.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28820	Here, thank you, Minister. So it is believed that this law will receive support in the first reading, but I ask you therefore on the basis of this discussion that everyone recognizes himself in some way. Here, Mr. Minister, obviously you need to get the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. We will obtain the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget as incompetent commissions. We will add the opinion of the Management Board, i.e. the Management Board of Direct Taxation, and all of you who have presented a series of ideas, suggestions etc., translate them into amendments and make constant communication with the Council of Ministers, i.e. with the Resolute Ministry, so that we have, in other reading, translated into the procedure of what we have heard here and what we have, in some ways, accepted as an improvement of the text. So here, in any case, I am now concluding a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in First Reading, more specifically point 5. Moving to point 6. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on the Application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and Cooperation with the International Criminal Court (First Reading) 34 So it's also about the law in the first reading. Our committee has established the existence of a constitutional basis, supported the principles of the proposed law. The opinion of this committee you've received. I'm opening a debate. He applied, I assume, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28822	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The co-workers and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, are one obligation BiH is due to fulfil, dating back to 2002 when BiH ratified the Rome Statute of the Permanent International Criminal Court. That's why I got up here because in public this is causing a certain kind of,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28823	Please listen to each other, they'll help you discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28824	a certain kind of misunderstanding. ... The international community in the world thus far has not had a permanent International Criminal Court. What is in The Hague is, therefore, the Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the interim court; this refers, therefore, to a permanent criminal court which will in the future have an obligation to prosecute certain violations of international humanitarian law in certain cases. And, the law we're passing today, BiH came to that club by ratifying that statute. In the application of the Statute, certain problems have arisen and knowledge that each Member State should pass its law on the application of the Rome Statute and this is the law that enters into professional matter. It concerns BiH's relations and the ongoing International Criminal Court, the prosecution's obligation, the BiH Court, the justice ministry, all BiH institutions on this issue and in BiH. The Constitutional Commission did not have any issues in this regard, and I would like to stress this in particular and propose on behalf of the Commission that this be supported in the first reading. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28825	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I believe this has been very useful. I'm opening a debate. So there are no reports; there is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28826	Well, let me just mention that we will support this law and I don't see that anything can be disputed about this law, because it's only about the implementation of obligations, so we've taken over by signing the 2002 Agreement, or the 2002 International Convention. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28827	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. Now we move to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading) So it's also about the law in the first reading. You have received a report, i.e. the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, on the existence of constitutional basis and principles. We're going to, the next item is the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prosecutor's Law, and I'm kind of assuming that the discussions that are being conducted will overlap, so please, when you discuss maybe by uniting the debate, if you don't mind, about these two points of the agenda. So let's not repeat ourselves, and here's if you don't mind just doing it. Therefore, that the discussions that you are now presenting also apply to the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice and to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, if you agree, of course. I don't see anyone... having any objection, here, and I'm saying we're having a joint discussion on these two agenda points. Now we're going according to reports: Šefik Džaferović, I guess again in office as president of the Constitutional Commission. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28829	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would love to have the Justice Minister address us on these laws in the opening section and then discuss it afterwards. But if I have to speak, I can speak now, so I don't know, I don't want to call anyone, but this is such an important matter that I would like to hear the minister of justice before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28830	Well, here you go, Mr. Čolak, you heard. So it's not extra, sure, you always have the option. I closely monitor your reactions. Whenever you express your wish, I allow you, but I think this is a situation where you really need to address the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28831	After that, I'll do it. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28832	Well, here, the man's already out.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28833	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here you are, as the president has said, two laws and, behold, I will try to present in short lines some things that I think are very important. Namely, you know how and when an agreement is signed between BiH and OHR, it is so called. An agreement on the registrar, that he is one opportunity and changed and that, of course, the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH has been adopted afterwards, which is practically allowed both foreign judges and prosecutors to participate in the work, i.e. to judge or sue in our judicial institutions, so exclusively in the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. The deadline expires, as the law defined, at the end of the 12th month, at the end of December of this year and of course it was necessary to see what and how further. Certain initiatives took place last year, as well as in what way, primarily by the professional community, the President of the Court, the Prosecutors, and certain initiatives were also by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. I was also offered these initiatives, but I also appreciated that it was necessary to approach this job and I am one of the questions, and I also ran for the BiH presidency, considering that we had this agreement that preceded this law and the BiH presidency once debated, no agreement was reached. I once again turned to the letter to see if the presidency would take any stance. As the answer said they would no longer be advertised on this issue, given that they received one letter from the High Representative, then Mr Lajčak, and of course, I continued to talk intensively with representatives of the professional community, but also representatives of the international community, above all donors and other representatives of the international community, representatives of the OHR, the European Commission, but also important, therefore also foreign ambassadors, above all donors in our country. You know that the public has also recently been informed through media, through means of public information, whether written or electronic, about this matter in one way or another, and that in a certain way they have crystallised some two positions that have practically opposed each other. One thing was that it was necessary for international judges and prosecutors to remain in the current term completely without any change, the other again was completely indisputable that there was really no more sense for international judges and prosecutors to work after the end of this year, rather than to continue with judges and prosecutors, therefore exclusively from BiH. Since time was passing, it had to go into procedure. Based on all these conversations that I have had, first of all, with representatives of the professional community, the most with them, could not have taken a single position, nor by them, then I think of the President of the Court of BiH, I mean the chief prosecutor and the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Since that attitude has evolved a little bit and was not entirely consistent from the beginning to the end, for a time you have here one review that was received with this letter which 37, I hope, I am not sure whether it was divided, I suppose, which came from Mr Solana the other day, and in addition to that letter, everything that has been done and what attitudes have been taken by both the President of the Court and the Chief Prosecutor but also by the President of the High Court of Justice and Prosecutors, or not by the President, but by the Council, because they have crystallised that position on the Council itself. Simply, here is the Ministry for one approach that we thought would benefit the citizens of BiH and BiH, but also, on the other hand, that they would, by our court, also have a passage in this parliament, given all these facts that I am talking about. It is therefore proposed that one solution which, first of all, means in Section I for war crimes, is therefore kept in the Appalition Department of the Judges of the Foreigners, while in this first degree it is only intended for those several cases which are practically started and are not completed, because we do not think there is any point in whether or not someone else is entering these cases, because it would be important to violate the provisions of criminal proceedings if a judge were involved, whether, in giving the verdict that previously did not take part in the work, or in that case from the beginning. And we also predicted in this proposal that even in war crimes, so the prosecution is also attended by foreigners still but without the authority to be the deputy chief prosecutor, either the head of the department or the deputy. So, according to this proposal, they can be prosecutors in war crimes. Of course, here you are going through today's debate, this is the first reading today, and I will listen closely to what the MPs say and what is actually possible to renegotiate until the second reading. But here, my view is that this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH is one advance compared to what we have so far. This is a transition, and we simply think that it should be gradual, should we, going towards this exit strategy in which, finally, domestic judges and domestic prosecutors would take over practically all the work in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Of course it's very strong, once again, it's very difficult to come to an agreement on the Council of Ministers. I had practically just changed the proposal, before I had been delivered, which had not passed on to the Council of Ministers. We later intervened in this sense that in war crimes we have left this time of three years, given the fact that most likely this International Court, whether, for another three years, we will have another number of cases, safe and difficult items that will come from The Hague, and here we have another number of definitely more important cases, difficult cases, and we think, given the sensitivity of matter, given the nature of these cases that it is necessary here another time that, I say, is limited to three years of participation by foreign judges in the Appellation, and that's supposed to be, therefore, one side of the judge. Here, that's the shortest. I will, of course, listen carefully to what the MPs say, so hopefully, I'll have a chance to turn it on later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28834	Thank you very much. We're going in the order of the reported. Šefik Džaferović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28835	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28836	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28837	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My koleginica and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, here, after the time spent in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the time has come to discuss the issue of their further participation. I thank the Minister of Justice for these opening statements, which made things easier for all of us. We have adopted a majority opinion on the Constitutional Legal Commission in relation to this law and we propose that the House of Representatives adopt it in the first reading. And I will speak as a representative in the course of the discussion. So I can't speak any further in having these committees, but I'll speak as a representative. The criminal department of the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, therefore, is about the territory of the BiH Court of Justice and Prosecutors, has the Department of Organized Crime, the Department of War Crimes and the Department of General Crime, and, of course, there is an appropriate Appellate Department, and in all these departments we today have international judges and prosecutors. I'm also talking about the Court and the D.A.'s office together. They are there to help make the important BiH institution work as well as possible and respond to the tasks it has been set up for. I think the law offered by the Council of Ministers is too free to go too far when it comes to excluding international judges and prosecutors in the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I agree that it may have been necessary to move gradually but I think it has gone beyond what the current situation in BiH can endure. Because having foreign judges and prosecutors in both departments of the BiH Court and the Appellate Department, therefore for organised crime and for war crimes both in the Appellate Department and analoguely in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and now only the Appealal Department of War Crimes, I think it is too liberating in this situation and that we should not and should not go so broadly to go and that this matter must be narrowed down and that the presence of international judges and prosecutors must be kept to a greater extent than the measure proposed by this law. Here, so I'm thinking about the first degree when it comes to war crimes and I'm thinking about the organized crime department and I think that this issue should be resolved by the next session, or until the next review of this law on the Constitutional Commission in the second reading and here at the House in the second reading. Now the question is how do we deal with this law if it only partially, in someone's opinion, in this case, solves the problem, solves the question. The position, an existing formal legal position, is such that the existing law thus regulates that, at the end of this year or early next year, all, or not, the mandate expires, the mandates already expire from the fall of this year and by the end of the year, but the possibility, by law, ends the appointment of foreign judges and prosecutors. So it's reality and, in fact, it's an existing legal reality. Now the question is, how do you treat a law that you don't think is enough and that it hasn't given you the extent to which you think 39 should be thrown, in one such situation, because if you vote against this law, then you'll get what comes anyway at the end of the year and what isn't good. I don't think it's good for anyone in this country and I think it's good for everyone, and for the credibility of these institutions, that we keep it as high as possible in BiH. That is why I will support the proposal of this law in the first reading, but in the amendment phase, I am trying to fix this thing, especially when it comes to this Department of Organized Crimes, and also to the Department of War Crimes, this first part relating to the first degree. I urge all colleagues to consider this matter well, to exclude ourselves from politicization and burdens, perhaps in some cases and some cases that are now current, it is an institution. Foreigners in BiH are generally due to helping BiH function normally. I don't think the time has come for them to withdraw from BiH and the BiH Court. Some progress has been made. The institution, the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office are something different than in 2003 when they started, but they are not yet what they should be and could be independent of foreigners, or their participation and their credibility to function. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28838	Let's move on. Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28839	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court of Justice is of course a topic that has recently been debated much within political representatives in BiH, within the profession and within the citizens and the public. In this debate, as the minister said, two attitudes were differentiated. One, which advocates the departure of foreign judges and prosecutors and, second, which advocates staying, i.e. extending the mandate, i.e. extending the stay of foreign judges and prosecutors in so far's capacity. The laws amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which today are the subject of a debate in the first reading, represent some medium variation between these two proposals, i.e. the reduction of the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors in the Court of Justice of BiH. The judiciary is one of the important parameters of the rule of law, and judicial reform in BiH has produced significant results so far and there is no doubt that this has been made by the international community and therefore the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court of Justice. Of course, here each of us can have his opinion and his arguments for and against such a finding. The BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court today face major problems and challenges identified by the abolition of The Hague tribunal and by the complete takeover of war crimes cases and the growing trend, I would say, the geometric growth of crime, corruption, organised crime, which is evident in BiH. I am not happy about the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court of Justice, but I objectively believe that domestic judges and prosecutors, with all due respect, cannot deal with the challenges and tasks that are being put before the BiH Court today. I say this with full responsibility both as an MP and as a citizen of this country. When I say this, I've been led for three reasons. 40 The first reason is that domestic judges and prosecutors are under terrible pressure to face war crimes trials and to face cases of crime, corruption and organised crime where there are powerful people as participants within political and criminal lobbies in BiH. In the face of such pressures, judges and prosecutors either bend their backs or step down from the position of judges or prosecutors. It's rare for those who have something third and who remain flat in it. Speaking to a large number of judges and prosecutors, a significant number of them personally told me that they were increasingly busy thinking about the safety of their lives, their own safety and the safety of their family. The second reason for my opinion and the position of the DNZ on this is that it is not yet time to reduce the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors in the Court of Justice of BiH, and it is in the very relations within the Court. Unfortunately, the BiH Court is still heavily burdened with the burden of the national component and the national component of the perpetrators has an impact on the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as on the overall relations in the Court. The third reason is that without the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors today, BiH citizens still do not feel legally secure before the BiH Court. It may not be promotional to say today, but if I am asked as an MP and citizen of this country, I am still without the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors today, I do not feel absolutely legally secure before the Court of Justice of BiH, although I repeat, I am not too happy about their presence. I think I share the opinion of most BiH citizens today. Foreign judges and prosecutors in this state in BiH are still a significant co-ordinator, both pressures on judges and prosecutors, as well as on the BiH citizens' mistrust in the BiH Court of Justice and on the BiH Court's relations co-ordinator. So, I take all the circumstances facing today's amendments and the addition of the law in the first reading, on the Court of BiH and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, will not support these laws and will not support the reduced presence of foreign judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court of Justice. I think support for such laws would be against the citizens of BiH and against continuing to reform BiH's judiciary. I personally suggest that the legislator withdraws the same from the procedure and corrects the direction of suggestion and from here from Parliament, from this home, and from the international community, and from the local public, and from the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28840	From what I understand, you seem to support that there are none. Momčilo Novaković. Excuse me, Martin Raguž, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28841	No, it's not a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28842	Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28843	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 41 I think we do not really have the need for long debates, given that Mr. Minister also spoke in his opening statement about the differences in access to this issue, colleagues so far, and the media have written a lot about this problem in recent months, and also dealt with this area quite differently. But the theme is that it deserves at least a few sentences, if anything, for the sake of the public, to bring out its own attitude. I have to say, unlike the colleagues who have spoken so far, I'm thinking differently and I'm going to react differently. I mean, I can't accept the argument that's been made here that in the home judiciary today we don't have enough quality people to do these jobs. And if we don't have them, then we have to ask ourselves what the High Judicial Council was doing at this time and why we didn't train enough people, if we knew, if we didn't know that for the last five years that these people's mandate would expire at the end of 2009. I cannot accept the argument that we need prosecutors and judges because we have a particularly organized crime, because we have a problem with some very high-ranking people. This can also be done from the letter received here by EU High Representative, Mr Solana, as well as from the discussions of individual colleagues. Because if we were to go to this analogy, then because of such high-ranking people, we can't trust our police, so we'd have to have foreign police officers in the police because we don't trust our own because we can be pressured and directly influenced by high-ranking people and then we'd actually have to put ourselves in a situation where we can't do anything in BiH if we don't have foreigners in any area. Of course, such a conclusion would be directly contrary to our efforts or efforts by the majority that BiH is able, above all, to run for the EU and later to join the EU. And if it's time for that, then it's high time for today. It is true that for the transition, and we must acknowledge this, to a new system, namely a system of functioning without the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors, we have not made adequate preparations. And that's true. And we need to ask ourselves why, and we need to ask ourselves who's responsible that we're not... But that can't be an argument for this second measure, and that's retention. If the Council of Ministers has made an assessment and gone from a basic assumption, which is what colleagues here have been talking about, and that is that... we don't have, our judicial system doesn't have, so, judges and prosecutors who can successfully fight these problems, does that mean that the Council of Ministers has made an assessment that we have in the Department of Organized Crime able judges and prosecutors, and we don't have a War Crimes Department. That's how this bill defined the question. Of course, some colleagues think we don't have anywhere, I think we have in both departments, I've already said that, able people to replace foreign prosecutors and judges and take responsibility, after all, for applying the laws in this country, the laws we've passed, and sometimes with a significant role of the international community. I think whatever we discuss today, this problem will remain for a second reading. As far as I'm concerned, the key principle is whether or not the presence of foreign judges and prosecutors. So not partial presence or overall presence, but yes or no. Is there or isn't there? The principle that this law has put before us is unacceptable to me. I believe that in our judicial system we should neither have foreign prosecutors nor foreign judges since the beginning of 2010. That's why I won't support the principles of this law, or I won't support this law in my first reading. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28844	Let's move on. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28845	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me briefly, in addition to what is already said in the discussions that are about or against what is at the core of the discussion and the matter regulated by these laws, state the views of our party which may have very arguments both in one and other discussions we have heard, or arguments we have heard. I would especially like to remind you of the previous discussion of counterpart Novaković, who has just pointed to a fundamental problem, which is our ability, so to respond to the demands, to the challenges of all that lies ahead of the institutions of our judiciary, above all from the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Here is a brief reminder that the Party for BiH will support the law in the first reading, i.e. the principles of this law, by respecting and sticking to its and earlier views that this country is necessarily independent, depolitised, effective judiciary that should be protected from any political influence, which, as we appreciate, is exactly what the international judge, or prosecutors, or presence, is, whether, international judges and prosecutors in these institutions. So, we will support these laws in the first reading and for other reasons, because we think that as soon as possible we should resolve the status and remove all uncertainty regarding the engagement of respected judges and prosecutors... from the international community, which have so far devoted a significant part of their life and work engagement in our institutions, although, at the very beginning, we must mention that we are not in principle satisfied with the principles, or with the solutions offered by existing laws, because they do not reflect these attitudes that I was just talking about. Namely, these laws, as we know, offer a reduced presence in the War Crimes Department, which is, we believe, inadmissible, given the fact that this country should get out of the past as soon as possible and enter, finally more, into the future. And we appreciate that the presence of international judges and prosecutors right now, in particular, I would like to point out in the Department of War Crimes, and it helps us to provide us with this necessary dynamicism as soon as possible and not to say that the potentially reduced role of foreign judges and prosecutors would make it impossible for both the proper work and the accelerated work on cases already in progress concerning the subjects concerned and the vulnerable, to say, and the areas, and all of which Bosnia, unfortunately, is recognised in the world according to our recent past, especially when it comes to genocide in Srebrenica, and we think that this would be highly reflected in the victims of genocide, and the survivors of that genocide in Srebrenica, and we appreciate that no reduced presence in this department is desirable for BiH. There is even a need to create conditions for things that relate to the topics of our recent past to end as quickly as possible. Not to mention especially when it comes to a country in transition, which is already recognised, unfortunately, and is recognised more and more by some indicators that are commonly used when it comes to organised crime, corruption, etc., a complete absence, to say, in the Department of Organized Crime, and I appreciate that we neither have the ability nor could do so in the spirit of what the Party's position on BiH is, and that is to be depolitised and secure, or secured from any influence on the part. I appreciate that it is also advocating solutions like this and may be interpreted and I am not surprised at the interpretation that is heard in both the media and the public that this is also a message in the light of the investigations that are under way when it comes to organised crime and corruption, 43 not only in BiH but also in the region as a whole. After all, we are already witnessing ourselves and fresh moves and information on the regional agenda. I would especially like to in this context to indicate our amendments to the second stage of reading, i.e. the procedure with these laws and the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, by making amendments in this direction. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that we have been given these arguments, which we have also received in confirmation of correspondence and support and warnings and arguments that have been partially and delivered here in the procedure, letters from the distinguished European Commissioner for Foreign and Security Policy, Mr Havijer Solana, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the High Representative, and the Home Institutions, above all, of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. Dear Chairman, i.e. colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out in particular that we believe that the conditions have not been secured, given the ability of domestic institutions, i.e. in view of the engagement of all of us here in the training of domestic institutions – to respond to such a serious task. Just given that, we appreciate that international judges and prosecutors need to stay here in BiH and provide another part of their work engagement, help us solve key problems. I appreciate it, even if it wasn't so, that this country would even start to get into even bigger problems. I also appreciate that they should not stay any longer than BiH needs, but also, and that they do not leave at any time sooner than BiH needs. And in that sense, we will support this law in the first reading. We announce amendments in this direction for a second reading. We invite all colleagues and colleagues to take care of these aggregates, arguments heard from both the circles of these institutions, both domestic and international, and to address this problem as soon as possible. I expect that even at the next session, we will have enough hearing to pass the law in this direction and with these amendments, because given the terms and deadlines, given exactly the arguments that I was just talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28846	Replica, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28847	So already several times, co-worker Azra and counterpart Džaferović spoke with the position of efficiency of foreign judges and prosecutors, with the position of efficiency as an argument, so efficiency and justice or justice. Look, I couldn't agree, and that's why I got up to replicate, not me – and I'm not going to replicate anymore, so today, or report to these points of the agenda – but I couldn't agree with those findings. Namely, let's just remember a few cases that these judges led that ended the way they ended up. Let's remember Mr. Čović's case, Mr. Šarović. Let's remember our debate here when we discussed the prosecution's work on the processing of war crimes, indicted for war crimes against Srbin where we found a series of illogicalities or inappropriateities etc. So, no, for me it's not an argument that these people would stay here. I think 44 would require stronger arguments, and that's one of the reasons why I gave that attitude that I just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28848	Thank you. Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28849	Thank you. Maybe we didn't understand each other very well, colleague Novaković. I was not talking about the efficiency or efficiency of foreign judges and prosecutors, I was talking about the ineffectiveness of domestic, or insufficient capacity of domestic judges, prosecutors, or institutions to respond to the demands ahead. And you've just given me arguments in favor of the argument, so what I was just talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28850	Let's move on with the report. Sorry, Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28851	So it's a replica to Mr. Novaković. In a few cases, international judges and prosecutors missed but had ten times as many successful... processes against high-ranking politicians. And if there were no international judges and prosecutors in BiH, there would have been no such process. No country, unfortunately, has in Europe had as many removed, convicted and processed high-ranking politicians as BiH. And, I say, without international prosecutors and judges, it would never have happened and would not have had a spine in relation to the trial of war criminals and in a... organized crime trial if it hadn't been for international judges and prosecutors. And we won't be able to continue to do this job properly if we strongly reduce our capacity and their presence in that segment. So, of course, it is necessary to gradually reduce the international community's presence in general, including in this segment, but not as abruptly and strongly as predicted, as these two laws predict. So, the SDA will come out with amendments that will propose to reduce that presence and that capacity, but not to this extent.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28852	We're going back to the public for discussion. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28853	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, the distinguished guests, did not want this, although the item of the agenda with a total of nine articles in both laws would not suggest, 45 went into debate, not on amendments and additions to the Law in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, but on the state of justice debate in BiH. And, I have to say, I've been listening carefully to the debates so far, I've carefully read all the letters we've received on this subject and there's a lot of, there's far more pages of letters than articles that tang these two amendments and additions to the law. The assessments we have heard here today, discussing principles, are assessments of the state of justice of BiH. In part, the small ones are touched by the fact that in the BiH judiciary today – if I am well informed, and I appreciate that I may not be well informed – 14 or 15 foreigners engaged as judges and prosecutors in only one BiH Court and only one BiH Prosecutor's Office. From one of the letters, I was a little reminded that we, with strong support from the international community, started a strong judicial reform in BiH in 1998, as they would say more than 10 years ago. If I'm well-informed again, one part, a small number, and now I consider this number to be a small number, existing in the last five years. And, obviously, we're talking a little bit about principles here, because some principles obviously can't bear one and another argument, if we're talking about a way, if we're talking in principle. I've tried to set this subject for myself in several ways. While there are hundreds of courts and prosecutors in BiH, it means not judges and prosecutors, but courts, which are municipal, which are cantonal, which is countyal, which is entityal, so also counting on this one State Court and one State Prosecutor's Office, within which there are many hundreds of judges and prosecutors, and can indeed be 14 or 15 regardless of what kind of experts, means I don't want to have a debate about people who are engaged today as foreigners in our institutions – can they really do anything in this area? I'm responsible for saying I can't. And if I could, we wouldn't be high-ranking on a scale of high or most corrupt countries. Such assessments and many of them also come from the many writers of letters we have received these days, 10 years after the start of radical judicial reform. And all the talk now comes down, in all these letters, whether in the BiH Court, in one court, there will be 5 or 15 judges and prosecutors left in one BiH Prosecutor's Office. There's all this talk about it. If they can really fix the situation, and unfortunately they haven't fixed it yet, neither do they, nor do they domestically, means that we should be correct towards each other. I really don't know what this kind of drama is. We must face the fact that we have both foreigners and without foreigners. When we discuss the BiH Court's report or information, I'm not sure, I think it's information, because we only take it to the knowledge, or information from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we've only had the opportunity to listen to praises here. Take a stenogram, remember, we've had such a discussion recently. Just compliments. Where'd you get all this criticism now? In these courts and in these prosecutions, however, the largest number of BiH citizens, including in the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, is the largest. They are in the lead positions of BiH citizens. Both the president of the BiH Court and the chief state prosecutor and the president of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council are citizens of BiH. They manage it. These strangers don't run. Or maybe they're in charge, and we don't know. But as far as I know, our citizens run those institutions. When someone projected these laws five years ago, he predicted, as perhaps realistically, perhaps unreal, maybe he did not know what the situation in BiH was, that some 10-15 judges and prosecutors in five years would be able to change the psychology of thinking in BiH about something called the judiciary. And we will swear here for days that we are all for an independent judiciary. Then I ask the question, since we're all up for it - who scares the judges and prosecutors? Who are they afraid of? Who's putting pressure on them? I heard from this booth that no one put pressure on them, and from one of the leaders, and from 46 leaders of the other, and from the head of the third institution. Then let's not make up what people know, I guess they'd know someone's putting pressure on them or they wouldn't tell us. So it's not 5 or 15 judges and prosecutors, it's a much deeper problem, and these discussions so far have shown: we have one disease. So we have roots in us, we won't admit it, we don't trust everything that's ours. It's the first defect in us all, in public, in society, etc., which we all have to fight together. We don't believe anything that's domestic. Take the product artificially produced with hundreds of pesticides sold in our shops and go to the market where it is natural without any pesticides! Our people believe that the one with the pesticides is better because it's imported, it's not our home, and they're buying the imported one, it's not our home, so it's to the institutions. We don't trust ourselves here, and it's no wonder we don't trust our judges and prosecutors. The Justice Ministry also found the Council of Ministers in a situation where it had to come up with something. So, on the one hand, we have requests to remain the full current engagement of judges and prosecutors and we have on the other hand a request that it be completely excluded, as provided for by the current law, which means unless we adopt this law that has arrived from the Council of Ministers, the law already provides for what will happen, so it will not be without any events. If that's good, here's an estimate. I think the Council of Ministers acted in line with our overall relations, too, tried to come up with some compromise that was difficult to defend, meaning the principles, which was spoken of by the distinguished representative Novaković. If the principle is that we can't do without foreigners, then no one can explain that without foreigners in municipal, cantonal, entity courts, and not only in the BiH Court. I mean, that principle can't, it doesn't drink water. So, but here, if necessary, so I think a compromise has been made on one of the most sensitive issues, the most painful issue in BiH, well, now it's good to make compromises there, but obviously it's real, so it's obvious. We have the possibility of a choice between this compromise solution to leave a number of possible foreigners in the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and we have another choice to completely exclude them from this one court and one single prosecution, and that is what the current law will do, unless we adopt these amendments and supplements in itself. Each of us will probably assess, not by conscience, but by political commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28854	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28855	Mr. Lozančić, Deputy Chairman, a lot of these 15 people can do, a lot. Many when it comes to trust in institutions, many when it comes to the truth, many when it comes to justice, many when it comes to fighting crime, and I guess we all in BiH should care about some lofty moral principles and aspirations such as justice, truth, rule of law, fair society. That is why there are these institutions, after all, and many other institutions exist because of this. And what's the problem now is, let's say 15, how many people are there, is, how much is proposed here by the President of the Court and the Attorney General working there. I am pleased that several million cases in this country, in various courts, at various levels, are handled by domestic judges and prosecutors. And that's how it should be, this is our country, they should do it. 47 But it is a number of tens or hundreds of sensitive gears. In The Hague, all foreigners are, and none of them are from the former Yugoslavia's space or anywhere near. It's not an accident. We have a strategy to solve war crimes cases, and at the moment that strategy is to be applied, we question, we hunt down, so when participation in this war crimes department, the participation of foreigners, we rule out the first degree, we leave it in the second degree, and it's in some reduced form. In this, therefore, this will help us in BiH as soon as possible to take all things into our own hands. And that's what we'll do when the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office are, I use the term "credible institutions." Today, the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office are something quite different from the year 2003 when they began to function. We made these departments so we could, we knew what would happen to The Hague tribunal, to solve war crimes cases in BiH. Today, six years after that, the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office are respectable, so their integrity has been gained through the work of BiH institutions. They are not yet trained to work independently in such sensitive objects, so a few dozen or maybe a hundred objects. So what's wrong with that 10th, 15-20 foreign judges helping that principle? We're a little short on achieving what we want in BiH. And then one day after the pay phone, we'll stand up and say that we're the only ones working in BiH. It's a simple help to our institutions. Some colleagues say "it's hypocritical of the SDA to say that this is how it advocates BiH's sovereignty, and in this way it does not recognise sovereignty," because it advocates the participation of foreigners. This helps BiH's sovereignty. And this is the path on which BiH's sovereignty is being built. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28856	Correction of the wrong quote, Živković. For discussion, Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28857	Thank you. It is said here for this speaker that when we discussed the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, they spoke praises and that we did not defile those institutions. I want to go back to the three things we talked about here, and we gave very harsh words and objections to both the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. One of the things was credibility, and we believe that in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH there is, at least that is the perception of people coming from the RS (here are those citizens, and I want to say out loud) believe that corruption exists in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, selectivity in the selection of cases for processing, especially I mean the War Crimes Department and there is continuity in the launch of mounted political processes. The role of the international community identified in judges and prosecutors working there cannot be negligible or avoided their responsibility. And I'm asking, who do these people match? They're not responding to this House, they're not responding to this country, and we need to continue their work here. We talked about another thing in a negative context, we talked about efficiency. And I ask whether such ineffectiveness in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH will be corrected by 14 people who need to stay here. What kind of justice system is that? And of course, in the third thing, we also stressed that BiH's sovereignty, the European path BiH is in reverse proportion and contrary to the remainder here, as we believe it is in reverse 48 proportions with the rest of the OHR and we believe that BiH will not be a sovereign country until they leave BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28858	Niko Lozančić, replica of Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28859	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm going to comment briefly on this correction to an incorrect quote. I don't think that the majority position if you, dear colleague Živković, pointed out what you pointed out, and I remember you were the only one talking about it. And I apologized to you for putting you in the majority that spoke commendably of the Council of Ministers, but I know that my second replicant in this debate is a strong replica of you because you do not respect the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, because they are highly professional, high-independence, etc., which I agreed with him at the time. But I don't agree with him today or with those who say these institutions aren't capable, they're not qualified and they're institutions, I don't know what we'll do with them then. Let's open up a debate to see what we're gonna do? Guys, these are serious institutions. We need serious institutions, too. I believe these were built. So is 10 or 15 judges going to fix the situation in the judiciary, no matter who they are? I'm sure he won't. If he wanted to, we'd have absolutely fixed it today, but obviously we don't. I mean, we can convince each other now, but I don't want to convince anyone. I am only here to express my position, my assessment, my assessment of the situation and, unfortunately, we have a state of what we have, or what is good, in my opinion, we will not change the situation with 15 judges and prosecutors, regardless, but in the process of war crimes, I think there is no reason to be satisfied with the effects and successes of neither these departments nor other departments of other courts in BiH, we cannot be satisfied, we cannot. There we all know how many objects aren't even open, which means how many, and how slowly the open ones are going. It's familiar to everyone. So obviously it's not enough of these 10 or 15 judges. As for me personally, if it were possible, I would leave it to them completely, so, not to the 15th, but perhaps to the 150th, so that in a short, short period of time, we would solve the issue of war crimes in BiH, not to burden us all together. So that would be good. Now, what's the solution? So here's the obvious solution in some kind of compromise offered by the Council of Ministers, if you followed well what I was saying. So it's about compromises. Now, we can say that when our institutions suit us, they're qualified, when it suits us not to be good. I'm here to encourage them and help them. In one of these letters, when I came out to say it, it's said that they're not... financial resources. As far as I know, everything required of finance from these institutions has been approved through the BiH Institutions Budget. Why didn't they ask for more, eh, that should ask them. So we're going to have the budget of these institutions and for the next year, here it is before us, and that's why I call on them to take care of and the financial needs of these institutions so that they can be trained, and then it's up to us to express our political will as well and to provide them with these finances so that they can do responsible jobs. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28860	Before I give my word, the replica of drag Kalabić, and the proposal of this funding, I believe you know about international judges and even translation, etc. – these funds are provided by the international community. Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28861	The Honorable Chairman, exactly what you said, might have funded them if we had some influence on them. It's not that. It's not that. It's not that. I don't think you should have said that, 'cause that's what's so controversial about funding them. If it's to fund those 15 people, I think, but, uh, about that, here, we know what we mean. Although the previous two debaters took a piece of my replica, at least I'll correct the wrong quote. counterpart Džaferović said there are parties in The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal is not a domestic court. The UN tribunal is the court of the international community and only if they brought judges from another planet would they be in the same situation as BiH. It means they don't have the founders of the judge, but they've taken it seriously enough to take care of themselves and their credibility, that it won't come to mind, but they're taking their judges from their countries. And what I would also like to point out, the decision of this parliament will be what it will be and it will be a democratic decision, but will send a message to the public. The adoption of the law is a message that BiH has long, long been waiting on its European path or to end it for a while. So that's a message we can't avoid. That's quite clear. If you look at the remarks of the European Commission to Croatia in one important chapter such as the judiciary, what they have written, and that country that has far gone and is close to entering the EU, what they need to do, then you can imagine what they will write to us. He's going to write us what Oli Ren wrote, and he's going to repeat that letter. Forget it. So if we send such a message, no matter how we vote on this bill, we have to tell people, we're not capable, we have to deal with this. Corruption, crime and everything else aren't things, to be realistic, no matter what measures we take, which we can handle overnight, but it's one process and if we're still going to solve it with strangers, it means that there's nothing from the European story, and we have to tell people, if we're going to support this law. I know, he won't be angry, counterpart Džaferović was a judge. True, he was at a time when there was a state, at a time when there was a state, a judge, and people say a good judge was. I think Mr. Džaferović would certainly be a better judge today than all and one stranger sitting in that court. Well, if it is, especially this fraction on some descending line, it can be a way out. So if we believe that you would, and if we believe that you would be a better judge than all these strangers, and we're willing to give you trust, why don't you believe in yourself? I don't believe they're better at biography, by all means, and why don't you believe in yourself? Well, I think you'd certainly be a more experienced and better judge and we'd have our trust because that's what people from BiH should do. The tradition of a lawyer in this space, too, is recognised by foreigners, especially before the war, was good and there is no reason for any valid who can, people say, drink water, to bring positive, simple. And we also agree on something else, that we have to do it sooner or later. So we agree what we have to do, then there's no reason, so if we're already around that time, we're ready to do it right now and that 50 simply people take responsibility for this country or if we send a message, it's very ugly, I'm afraid of sending such a message, because tomorrow we have European topics waiting for us. There's been a run here, and today from Mr. Genjac's agenda point, the two things aren't going to go together. It won't go together, we'll remind you all the time, so the judiciary is a pillar of a country. If she's not ready to do anything about it, she can at least temporarily, not temporarily, long-term forget about Brussels.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28862	I must say I am encouraged, Mr. Kalabić, after these announcements from your political party. You are today mentioning the country's pillar, the judiciary, mentioning the BiH Court, that's good. I didn't think he'd be allowed to mention it. Adem Huskić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28863	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try a few discussions and replicate in one turn, so I don't answer. And of course, first I have colleagues, Kalabić, to replicate, because he said in a replica, I think it was Mr. Džaferović, that it was then a state. I'm asking Draga who he's a citizen of the state. Is he an alien, what is it, where are you from, drago, if there is no state now? Second, a colleague named Lozančić mentioned letters that he carefully read. I have also carefully read the letters and I can tell you, colleague Lozančić, that I am a good part, based on what is written in this letter, committed to changing, accepting principles and changing in a positive sense the text of the law, and that in a positive sense means returning it to the present level. I'll just remind you of one part of the letter. On page 2, it says: 'Unfortunately, these changes', which are spoken of here, 'and complemented are only partly the needs of a criminal justice system, expressed by experts who know the situation most thoroughly'. This is the president of the BiH Court of Justice, Ms. Meddžida Kreso, chief prosecutor Milorad Barašin and the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Mr. Milorada Novković. These three people and institutions at the helm have carefully assessed the short and long-term needs for both personnel and financial resources and recommended the extension of the presence of international staff. So, the domestic profession, not politics, suggests extending the presence of international judges and prosecutors in the current scope. If we talk about compromises, and someone mentioned, I think you, my colleague Loznačić, are on the Council of Ministers that it is a text, that it is a fruit of compromise, I have information that it is not a fruit of compromise and that here, BiH Ministers did not vote. So if there were compromise, that would mean consensus, or unanimous adoption. And the U.S.A., here, I don't know if they have any more ministers upstairs, since you've pulled yours, you've replaced some. 51 And the third thing, look what I'm afraid of, I agree that there are problems in the functioning of the judiciary and in the prosecution and courts, but the question is, would it be better if they were gone? We've had, I mean, too much politicizing and procedures and judgments. I'll remind you only that a certain time ago, a man said he would not be tried by Muslims in the Court of BiH, a man is not a pain in the ass, a very important person in this country. Then it would mean that someone else would say that they would not allow him to be tried by Orthodox or Catholics and defenses, etc. I don't know where that would lead us. And in that sense, I think that good fellow Džaferović said that several typical, typical cases of difficulty should lead foreign judges and prosecutors, so that we do not enter into non-necessary politicisation, which would not lead to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28864	I'm asking for a little shorter replica. People are waiting, they're applying for a discussion. Remzija Kadrić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28865	Thank you. I'm going to do a really short replica of my esteemed colleague Kalabić. And I support this just now that he was talking about a trip to Europe. Indeed, this country should travel as quickly as possible to Europe, but let's agree here that this path does not go through Belgrade. So we're traveling directly to Europe, not to go across Belgrade, and not like the other day, whether some people went up to see how these roads are going, if there's any tickets to Europe. It means we're traveling directly to Europe, not through Belgrade.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28866	The honourable Ambassador Kalabić will now be replicating the honourable MP Kadrić. Please listen to each other, let's get back to work. Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28867	I, when I spoke, am a citizen of the RS and BiH, and that is not disputed. This jargon, colleague Huskić, I took from FTV, every night are strikes and every night thousands of people in Sarajevo, and he says, "As long as there was a state, we had salaries. While there was a state, we lived like men.' I of them, a thousand people, if they yell at the centre of Sarajevo and say it while there was a state, here, however they give answers, here, I'll agree. They claim it there, I, here's the jargon I took over from them. And those people say, "When it was a state, we were people." Here, in that jargon I used to say when I was talking at the time when he was judging a respected colleague, so today it's said, it's not my fault when it comes to that story. Mr. Kadrić, everyone chooses their own path. And whoever chooses the wrong path, he chooses any path. And this country, if it chooses the wrong way and vice versa, someone goes the other way, thinks it goes the shortcut, so everyone else has nothing to do with our choice of way. If we choose what may seem to be detour, there may be a shortcut. What I do know is that until yesterday all your journey was through Belgrade, it was from the time of the state, everything went through Belgrade, and everything went 52, and it went to the world across Belgrade. But it went through Belgrade and Baghdad, it went successfully down to Tripoli, it went both to Berlin, and to Moscow, and to Paris. In short, while the state was going, it was going well. Now, if you think you're just going to choose a way, you're going to choose which way you're going to go, and here's what you tried to do through the Casino landscape, so you know how to do it. It's not exactly that way, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28868	Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Ambassador Adem Huskić, honourable Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28869	Let me just say, of course, I do, this is my second,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28870	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28871	I have a lot of experience with strikes, I know that when people are on strike saying things, but here Parliament is not on strike yet, we have the good pay Bog and we don't strike, we're not threatened, therefore, they won't mention it yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28872	Please, let's get back to our agenda. So, Slavko Jovičić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28873	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I will ask for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure - a secret application. You've all seen on display that it's my turn, and here's an hour to wait. Let's get this over with after my discussion, I'd kind of understand. But good. And you gentlemen, which I greatly respect in the presidency, whose application I don't see, so don't always, if possible, before me. But good. We've come up with a topic that isn't just a problem for 14-15 people. If it depends on the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office on these 15 people, then I'm going to be a little relieved. I'll say we have a state, but we don't have a judicial system. Not to open the entire genealogy now as the Court of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, had it not been in the Dayton Agreement, but here's the fact that they exist. I even think the opposite, that we have capable people who can work in their countries. And all those who advocate, who are the bearers of the highest judicial functions in BiH, so the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the chief prosecutor, the President of the Court, e, they only advocate for two reasons. First the foreigners come to them with an alibi not to do anything there, so they're hiding behind them, and when we look at the productivity of strangers, someone's counting, I don't have time to deal with it because I know they're not doing anything – somewhere below 10%. So, they don't do their life or justice, as many as they already have, to spend in this court, they wouldn't solve 20% of the cases pending resolution in the BiH Court of Justice. 53 So, on June 10th, I want to remind you, when we had the D.A.'s report, that's when I told the prosecutor Mr. Barašin to prepare a replacement for foreign prosecutors and I was delighted with his statement when he said that no one was pressuring him, and that's a great thing, especially from politics. But I had one now this year's break, because I wasn't on vacation anywhere because of my health problems, and I was available to all possible journalists and I had a discussion with them media, mostly me. Because all the gentlemen and my colleagues were either inaccessible or he was roming, so he ate them, and they ate me, ate my nerves with various questions. And I managed to get through it in a media way and here's the MEP to tell you today. As far as I'm concerned, I speak for myself, not in principle, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, not in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any case, in any case, in any case, in any case, in any case, in any As a result of the depression, it was something that the foreigners came up with. I'm going to say, the most important BiH institution, when Piter nikol left, I was saying, and their report had, we thought the bank was going down, we ran out of money, it's over, there's no more Central Bank, there's nothing. Mr. Kozarić comes with his team and achieves the best results. So, I'm sorry, but we need to give support and the possibility for domestic people to show. These stories that they work under pressure, in fear, that they can't judge a criminal or, I don't know, that stories are for little children first, and then they're degutant, and then they're humiliating themselves. Gentlemen, why are you sitting there if you're afraid of someone? Aphidifice, sir... The Čavka goes out and says to the D.A. - they're guilty - and passes his lawsuit in court. Of all the foreigners who proposed here in court, all the verdicts fell. And who do they match? The second thing, I want to say publicly, is, what are their references in their countries in the judicial system and in practice, where they have shown some results. I was just asking for two, because that's what I'm interested in, especially since these guys predicted leaving them in this War Crimes Department, where they won't stay, that's for sure, not here or anywhere. And I've been asking around influential diplomats. First, that diplomat, the one I asked about his countryman here, got startled and heard from me for the first time. Now, I'm counting on something, if he doesn't make contact with his diplomat and he doesn't know that he's closest to him, because of course he won't, the first thing he doesn't understand is he won't speak my language because he'll never learn it, and he'd owe it, and I won't go any further into such a wide discussion. So, if this country depends and several thousand people who work in judicial institutions, as Mr. Lozančić said, of 14 or 15 judges and prosecutors, then we, gentlemen, do not have a judicial system and then should not expect, first, victims of war crimes to ever get satisfaction in front of any court in BiH, and they are most invited to talk about this because they are most vulnerable, because no one is counting on them. So I'm also in this House, you're witnesses, you told me that for me, I'm talking about that category, the sanctity, no matter what people, the families of the dead fighters in the first place, they'll never get satisfaction. It seems this way that a nation is satisfied with the work of the court and the prosecution and I will say frankly, I have no right to speak for the Serb people but I have five letters to speak for the Alliance of the RS Campers, the RS Fight Organisation, the families of the dead and the missing RS, who are not satisfied or dissatisfied, who are being brought to misery, who do not know what they will do and seek support in us politicians. Because if I just tell you that in the five-year term, these foreigners have opened only two cases where the victims were Srbin, then how can someone on the moral side, here as an individual, expect me to, as a victim of 54 of the previous war, give support for any of their remaining in this court. Political connotations that we don't talk. Of course, everyone has their own interests, individuals and parties and people from which they come and the entity from which they come, and it's all clear. I don't think we'll ever agree on these questions, here's the open one. One will represent this thesis, the other the third, and we are all at the very end of the line unsatisfactory. Now, the thing is that there's some dissatisfaction 100%, which is with some dissatisfaction as a percentage, I don't know, 10%, or it doesn't matter, but we're all mostly dissatisfied. Now, when we're all unhappy, I can't have these percentages of the dissatisfaction of the Serbian people with the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH measuring with some other pleasure that is apparent and I don't want to, and at least here I've repeated countless times, and today for our guests from NGOs, I've never asked for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, nor have I bid and measured, but I've sought and will always seek balance in the amount of justice for the victims. The mother who has lost three sons from any nation that in her tragedy are the Aussies, and the Jasenites, and the Srebrenica, and the silo where I have been, and the camps of Sarajevo, and the Prijedor, and the Mania, and that I do not list that whole spectrum. So, hers is the most difficult fate and hers will not ease the pain, either foreign or domestic prosecutor. I've got a little more time. So, gentlemen, you were witnesses when I was at the 2nd session when we were reconstituted and 3rd, it doesn't matter, then I suggested to Chief Prosecutor Marinko Jurčević here and he agreed to prepare a strategy of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court to resolve these most painful issues and issues within five years so that as normal people, we don't go to Europe, so we're in Europe. Why should I look for a way to Europe when I'm in Europe? I'm not in South Africa, I'm not in North America, I'm in Europe, people. But Europe doesn't want us because it's best for them that we exist as we are, because it suits them. If they wanted us, they'd be very different to us and they'd be partners, not push us there, and maybe I'll be rude now: not to them, God Bog, but to myself, push them there, no one's heard who this man is, and he's some important judge and factor to me, and he's a prosecutor. And if I gave my vote, I'd rather resign, not deal with politics, but because of my conscience and the people who asked me to represent them, I'd never give my support, not to stay in this, any department, but anywhere in the Court, or in the Office, because they won't understand me when I bring him an act, so they'll pass it on to another department, and he needs a translator and another 20 of our own who we pay. And we here say they're paid by the foreign countries that send them. No matter how much we pay for the translator who sits with them, how much we pay for lawyers who need translators with them, it's five times more expensive than their country's funding. And let me finish. So, as for me personally, and hopefully a colleague from my party, so I'll tell the representative, I can't speak to the Serbian people, everyone has their own interests, no stranger will stay in this court and the prosecution when we vote, and there will be no amendments that will try to fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28874	So, Slavko, it's your call, we're wasting our time, right? It's decided. Sorry, good, good. Sadik Bahtić, please. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28875	Thank you. kolega Jovičić, we have the same attitudes when it comes to measures for... recession but here we differ. The law proposed by the Council of Ministers, in my opinion, as it is, means it is not acceptable because the environment and time are not favourable. I have already said that in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, foreign judges and prosecutors should continue to remain engaged because we are witnesses that domestic judges and prosecutors, not all, are exposed to various pressures and subject to these political pressures. We have an example in BiH that members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council are individual lawyers, these lawyers as members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council elect judges and prosecutors, and go there to defend politicians for certain crimes. What does that mean? That's the domestic justice system. Never means big fish, the one who's cut into huge crime, in my opinion, will be convicted. My colleague Huskić said well today, and I hear that our overbooked prisons, our petty hens and people... go there, judge them, and these big fish, crowded, here they won't even do those jails. America where the judiciary is number one, they tell you 2 million is your soldier and 3 million prisoners. What does that mean? So the rule of law has to work, so the law is above all else and there is no untouchable. Also, counterpart Kalabić said, "I'll look around here," he says, "We're not going through the Casin region." I have to say, I've lived in Banja Luka for 15 years and now I'm gone, I feel there as well as in Sarajevo and Bihac. We all went to Europe through Zagreb, not through Belgrade, not from the Casin region, but from Banja Luka. And it doesn't matter, it matters that we're where we are. I also want to say, I've always been concrete, direct and open, in my opinion, this law and its policy-making had a lot of influence. You can see that from today's discussion. Who's afraid of foreign judges and prosecutors? The one whose nuts don't tickle in his pocket, he shouldn't be afraid. Apparently those politicians who are against the rest of foreign judges and prosecutors fear for their crimes, for their own, for their empire, for their property. In my opinion, believe me, if they go away, foreign prosecutors and judges, none of these big fish will ever fit. It's a message to all -- take, steal, take Šemso as much as you like, you'll never answer, it's not our Šemso, the other Šemso, buy still villas, real estate, but outside BiH, not BiH. That's what we're sure of, and that's how it's gonna be. I believe that here, as MPs, we should say who is behind this proposal. There are those who fear for all that they have done. I am so that before the law we are all responsible: he who is bound by crime, let him answer! We saw, counterpart Džaferović said, this little process that was for politicians -- it was initiated by foreigners. If strangers go, believe me, here's what's going to happen: cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you! No Niko will ever answer, and the budgets will be smaller and smaller every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28876	Zlatko Lagumdžija. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28877	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I think it's more or less clear where this is going. And you need to call things open with your name and I think it's a good thing. I highly appreciate what Mr. Jovičić said very clearly, the political position, and she is who she is. I have the exact opposite, and it's not controversial, and we shouldn't lie here. I highly appreciate the effort that the President of the Constitutional Commission is trying to make: that perhaps this law in this form goes through the first reading, so that practically through the amendments they try to solve, not to lie, the essential things. And that's the question now -- is it clear to you right now don't let us lie, if people say you won't get through, then let's just shoot this thing down nicely, alarm it, and send the international community here and a clear message: it can't go on like this. I'll take a few words about the law... and principles, however, the Rules of Procedure do. I deeply disagree with the principles of this law, I can accept that in my first reading it, so that it can be fixed, if you saw any good will to fix what is bad in principles. There's only one question here - are we going to be foreign judges and prosecutors or are we not going to extend their mandate as they've been doing so far? There's a number of people who say no, there's a number of people who say we will, a number of people who are well-intentioned who say "let's try," to convince them who we are. ... This story is about judges and prosecutors, this isn't about organized crime, this isn't even about people who were directly perpetrators of war crimes. This is, in fact, about politicians who've been cut off in crime and who are covering for this. You see, I'm going to give you a banal example, today a full paper of one big successful joint police force action, even neighbouring Serbian states, police forces in BiH, interestingly, SIPA was not included. Why? Well, because it was drugs, and because the man in SIPA was the man in charge of the drugs who made the deal over the phone to a coma, what, 45 kilos and 50 kilos, yes. Now, look, I was interested in this morning, just for this agenda point, and whether the prosecutor is a stranger or a domestic. Interesting thing, I was told that the prosecutor was a domestic man, even the same nation as this high-ranking official who receives a salary to fight crime, and he actually used the position to actually be the boss or key link in that chain. So, when it comes to dealing with any criminals, real criminals, classics, drug dealers and the like, we don't need strangers for that, you see that our people will. But when it comes to asking a question from Lagumdžija to Dodik, Tihić, Čović, Silajdžić, whether it should be answered, then foreigners need it. To be clear, that's what strangers need. And that's why 15 people are enough. If we were God, if you had supported the "Law of Repossessment of Robbery" in which we asked that the top of the state, from me and beyond, go through the law, we wouldn't need foreign prosecutors now, because that law would have been combed a few years ago by the top of the state politically, so we would have seen where you are. So, this law, Mr. Minister, I really thank you for giving us this explanation, I'm sorry, you explained the law, and you didn't give us the explanation that stands here. This law is only an explanation. And the explanation is that it actually says that this law should be passed in exactly the form that guarantees the survival of foreign prosecutors and judges. In both arguments, both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, is a fundamental argument, beware, a fundamental argument that the ignorant people do not know. You know what the basic argument is? The basic argument for the termination of 57 international presence in the Department of Organized Crime, both in the Court and in the Prosecutor's Office, refers to the cost of translation and the duration of the translation procedure. So who do they make fools here? We're talking about something over here, and the people for this translation are not going to be foreign prosecutors. It says, that's what we need here to adopt, in both arguments it says. Who's to be, this translation, it's to be saved. On the other hand, on the other hand, the argument states, Mr. Minister, the argument (first, second, third, third, fourth, fifth, sixth paragraph), the seventh paragraph in the reasons for the Court, and the paragraph, (first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth), I apologize, sixth paragraph for the prosecutors, the same paragraphs were used in both of the terms of both laws, only in one sixth, in the second seven, because you threw out everything, and war crimes and organized crime, in the case of judges you left only an appeal for war crimes, so it is set up, but in both cases it is the same, same explanation. Watch this, when the prosecutor refuses, when he refuses to act as a prosecutor? Excuse me, in the Court of Justice,... I apologize, the Law on the Court says: "The BiH Prosecutor's Office considers the international prosecutors' survival necessary in both special departments." I don't know what that argument is for the court, but it doesn't matter. But these arguments make sense, so the minister says these arguments make sense, if at the same time they allow international judges to survive in both special departments. Look, I don't understand what he's saying right now. We leave you, we leave you this one, and since we already told you we're not leaving you this one, then we're not leaving you any, because I can only do both. So, someone here, it looks like this is meant to be, I guess, I don't know what you've learned not to read this. So this is on an elementary level, an elemental level. This should, as they say, have been returned to you from some other services so as not to reach the Minister, let alone the Council of Ministers. To conclude, that we are not lying, that by any chance gentlemen from, say, for starters, from two ruling parties, for the beginning of two, because these others are still not valid where they are, for the two ruling parties that have met in Belgrade, that they are, by any chance really, really, that they want what they're selling here, that they want this to be transferred to their own home, and then at the time in the budget they would be asked to strengthen their presence in the budget for domestic judges and prosecutors, and that almost a year ago, and when we rebalanced the budget for the IMF, etc., could be installed here, very cold, extra space for prosecutors. There you go... so you don't make us so crazy. Who's to be, these strangers will go, so here we are, our people in time... No, to be very clear, this is what the court and the D.A. are trying to lift. This is trying to abolish the Court and the D.A.'s office, and no, this isn't even a story about strangers, this is a story about the abolition of the Court of Justice and the D.A.'s office. And that's why I'm more inclined... by respecting what Mr. Džaferović said, that we finely reject this and that we say exactly: we know that refusing this means that we are left without foreign prosecutors and judges, we know that. But you see what you're going to do, so try to make an assessment, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I can't take over on myself. What if you take it now? Here we will give you hands to pass in the first, first pass, if you believe, if you need that chance. But then take responsibility for yourself, what if it falls in the second reading? But then, the haman of New Year, they go Christmas, New Year's, and everything else, that and Kurban-Kurban-bajram, there-here, there you go, there you go. And then what, then what? Is it better to hit a point today, Berize, on this, because it's not going? That's the assessment you need to make. Because you won't get votes from people whose bosses are afraid of the DA and this court who'll put them where they belong. That's what this is about. Why don't I have a problem with the D.A.'s office, your homework, your stranger, your judge? What? Why don't I have a problem? Why doesn't Berizu mind? What? What, what, how exactly does HDZ and SNSD get in the way, that's exactly how? How's that? He doesn't even have Croatian unity. I see, Ljubić I see you don't mind, it would be a miracle... if Ljubić had a problem with it, but there you go. 58 So, Mr. Belkić, I call on all people to vote by conscience, because by political commitment you have no way for this, there is a passage to this, by conscience, but here this will fall due to political commitment. And it's better in time to make it clear what this is all about. A year ago, Mr. Belkić, a foreign prosecutor questioned me, because I was a suspect in the Voluntary process. And there I was trapped and exchanged. I didn't mind going to the D.A.'s office. What? The man is not informed, now he's better informed. Well, what's wrong, I didn't say it was against me, I didn't call for immunity, I didn't bark at strangers or domestic nonsense. As a prisoner, a man interrogated me in the first round to possibly press charges against me, so what, what's the issue? You go - good afternoon, good day - so be it and please be nice. And there's no problem. So I'd ask you to, and we're willing to talk about it with all those who want to stay, foreign prosecutors and judges until further notice of organised crime with political coverage, so just take it upon yourself to make sure that you know that, and war criminals who have political cover. And that's what I'm gonna end up with. Why don't I trust the domestic court and the D.A.'s office in case of political cover? Because this parliament did not even have the strength to raise one elemental gesture by showing that we learned something to raise the hand of the resolution proposed by Denis Bećirović, adopted by the European Parliament on Fascism, genocide and those documents adopted by the European Parliament and the US Congress. If this parliament had adopted it, we might also believe that there is political will here to deal with criminals and criminals with political coverage. But since this Parliament has no power to do so,
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28878	Time, Zlatko!
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28879	We don't believe he has the strength for this. Come on, berize, since it's time, I'd better shut up, maybe I said more than I should. Thank you very much anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28880	I've been very patient, here's two minutes over, Mr. Lagumdžija. Let's go to the replicas, Milica Marković. There'll be a chance now, let's go to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28881	It is not, Mr. Chairman, a replica but an incorrect allegation of Mr. Lagumdžija's exposure, who said that some here would not support this law for the reason that some politicians from certain parties would be or are already subject to the trial of the court. In this, Mr Lagumdžija, you are denied the facts produced by judges and prosecutors working in the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which is the following: that the subject of the trial so far in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office was Mirko Šarović, was Dragan Čović, was Mladen Ivanić and, recently, is trying to be prosecuted and to be the subject of their work and Mr Milorad Dodik. We have not heard so far that one politician or former executive, ministerial, prime minister, has been prosecuted in the Court of BiH or possibly convicted, which 59 happened to people from the RS. To put aside politics now, you took politics as an example, here I'll take another example: the War Crimes Department. That the court is professional, that it is impartial and that it works without any influence or pressure in its work from the Federation of BiH, to do its job, is denied by the fact that many convictions and many years of sentenced people to prison and prison sentences were precisely in cases from the RS. And if they weren't after three, now in September, it will be three years, as the lawsuit against Atif Dudaković for the crimes he committed in BiH was launched and filed, no one has fingered for it so far. And probably that object of his covered the dust in a drawer in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, no one even thinks about it. So, if it were, if you were right and that court were so impartial and professional and that it works well, and we would today support this law here at least in the first reading. This law will be condemned to fail, and it is better to admit it to each other and say it, because the way it is with those 14 people from the RS doesn't need us because we don't trust this BiH institution and because it has proved ineffective so far and has not given any result to this country and to this society. And... my colleague Jovičić said a lot, but he did not say one key and main thing that was known to the public two or three days ago, not to support their stay in BiH, but in a story that will open on the constitutional reforms of the SNSD, we will ask that the work of the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office be completely unannounced through constitutional reforms and through a story that will follow and eventually we tell you: it is no secret, it was the official position of the SNSD given in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28882	You may also ask for the name BiH to be crossed, that it is not on the map, but here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28883	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28884	Well, of course, it's to be expected, that's an assessment. Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28885	It's a replica of only one part of the esteemed professor Lagumdžija really as a high-sighted and, I said, a capable politician. There's no politician or party president. I don't know who I'd represent except myself. I have to represent myself first. Because I've been the victim of war, I've searched countless times on behalf of the unfortunate people of both sides, can people in the RS, and I'll say, as a Serbian people, listen to every evening of the prosecution's portfolio and don't think I'm making cartoons, don't God think I'm making fun of anyone, I'm saying originally, "The prosecution won't say anything, nothing, investigations are under way." I understand what it is, but let them once tell the Serbian people everything you brought here is a lie, everything you accuse anyone you lie to, everything you bring is not true, all the processes that need to be opened or not opened, you're the only one who's guilty of this and this, you're telling lies, lies, and you're tearing down the state of BiH, let them condemn and accuse me. Let them once come out and say, gentlemen, 60 have here and I have priorities, and we'll accept that, but if we wait another hundred years, if we have the result now that 1.118 years have been given to Srbin, and I'm not defending anyone who has committed crimes, let it be clear right now. I don't know, 30, 40 years, and now, watch this, that I trust them, and everyone has come to believe that he's ineligible. So when he was incompetent, he did not kill his grandmother and mother, not a Srbin or a Srbin for not killing his father and his mother, not a Bošnjak or a Hrvat. So I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a pressurer, but I'm telling you here as colleagues, and I'm telling you we're not being honest, I can't stay for the simple reason we don't trust each other because no trial in that court has been opened. And this is a vain story we're going to fight. I can't go out on my campers' eyes and the families of the dead and the fighters.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28886	I don't know why we're exhausting ourselves, here according to these announcements, obviously the law won't pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28887	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28888	There you go. Let's move on, Vinko Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28889	I just wanted to replicate to my colleagues Lagumdžija, in the sense that when he spoke about Croatian unity, he looked towards me and his colleague Raguž. So, this is not a question of national unity, we will certainly be part of Croatian unity, together with our colleague Raguž, when it comes to discussing matters of importance for the national interests of the Croatian people in BiH, and we would like all Hrvat in this house and in other homes. It seems to me that he also mentioned colleagues from the House here, I don't know in what context, I didn't understand him, but this is a matter of professional and judiciality, and we're going to certainly make a statement about it and it doesn't mean we don't have our own position if we haven't discussed it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28890	Selim Bešlagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28891	Well, I've been reporting for the discussion, however, since some have already discussed it, and Mrs. Milica has just said one thesis about the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, I just wanted to replicate, as much as to say that the proposed law, which has been given here, proves and shows that it is not in the process and that it is in fact going towards reducing the number of prosecutors and judges in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. Because in financial means, look at both laws, it is said, if it means these 15 judges and prosecutors go away, it is said that no additional funds will be needed, which in other words means, Mr. Minister -- does that mean that the BiH Court will immediately hire 15 new prosecutors or will not hire, since no financial resources are provided? I think we're right about the fact that the BiH Court remains 61 scrawny and that the Court will continue to go, I would say, into stagnation, not in the process of all that... Therefore, this information on financial resources with a policy of leaving any part, any part of the party, would have to be supported by increased financial resources and allocations. I think it would be better to discuss this law if it were said... by leaving all the foreigners, the financial situation in the Court and the D.A.'s office must rise by so much and so much. Because it is, after all, the final indicator of this House's commitment, I am, so to say that we need 50 judges and prosecutors, but then in this financial plan, this item cannot stand for no cost and no financial need for these two laws. I mean, it was just that replica I wanted to say in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28892	Replica, Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28893	Mr. Belkić, I'm just going to take my chance on a replica of a few people who found it appropriate to replicate it for me. In some of these replicas is really just confirmed what I was saying and I'm glad, thank you. I want to be very clear. Our position that we have exposed from the SDP is very clear. We must do everything to greet 31.12. this year, congratulate each other's New Year judges and domestics and foreigners and to see each other again in January together, and then to continue this work, that's our goal. How do you come by that? And why am I saying that? And because the international community, in its own time, when it called international judges and prosecutors, had a certain goal and a specific mission. That goal, that mission, that purpose isn't fulfilled, that's one thing. Secondly, in the meantime, the goal and the mission have spread, because only in the last year have people who claim they will not be tried by people and those nationalities, so they will get a stranger who is certainly not their nationality. And because in the last few days, weeks, months, the motion to abolish the Court and the Prosecutor's Office has been updated, and that is why more is being alarmed by the public here in Parliament today. As for the records of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, others, who and who was tried in the BiH Court? For crime of this kind or those species are tried not only by people who come from policies called Jelavić, Čavić, pardon, Čović, Ivanić, Dodik etc. It was judged, as far as I know, and Hasan Čengić, so the man was freed. The director of Interpol was also tried, so he was released, etc., etc. It's meant for people who come from politics from all three nations, some are freed, some are not. And finally, I apologize to Mr. Zorić if I looked at him. I will not look at him again, I only took as an illustration of Croatia's unity in the ruling coalition and said I doubt that Ljubić and Čović have the same fears when it comes to the State Court. And I'm glad, is that, if we are, it seems to me that Martin here, once again, I want to say that I am fully convinced that there is no national interest of any people in BiH that can be achieved by denying the national interest of any other people. Because then it's not the national interest of that people. And I do not accept that the national interest of any people is spoken exclusively by people who claim themselves to be the exclusive representatives of the national interest of that people. 62 And otherwise, once again I would like to underline, Mr. Minister to you, and I would like you to come out with a proposal for a conclusion, somehow to bring this together. If not, we will suggest that the conclusion be the last sentence from your explanation. It reads: "The results of international prosecutors are evident," read the judge because the second one says, "in the work of the Prosecutor's Office", the second one says to the Court of BiH, "which indicates the justification of the proposed amendments, i.e. the extension of their mandate". Believe it or not, it says in the explanation. In the light of this law, it literally says this sentence. I ask you to come out of your law and reasoning as a compromise solution for us today to support this last sentence of yours, which I completely agree with, and then find the formula for how to get out of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28894	Milorad Živković, replica, incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28895	Thank you, Chairman. I want to say that it's a false dilemma whether someone from the SNSD is for and against this law to protect anyone in this country in connection with organized crime and war crimes perpetrators. Here you must understand that in the RS, we have a feeling that in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, especially when it comes to the participation and work of international judges and prosecutors, there is a sense of selectivity, bias and that it is a certain political influence on politicians in the RS on very important events that they were and are meant to be. We believe that the politically mounted processes that have been in history have confirmed what we are talking about and that the announced politically mounted processes are the direct pressure of the international community on us from the RS that we are leaving, and we want to talk to the others who want to sit with us about constitutional changes. And for that reason, and that's one reason, we don't want their presence, we don't want that pressure, and we don't want the politically mounted processes.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28896	We're going back to the public for discussion. We've got two more people in charge of the discussion. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28897	Here you can see that different opinions, i.e. divided, depend only on the percentage of whether the foreign judges need to stay or not at the end of this term further in BiH. Mr. Izetbegović said that it is not a good sudden termination of these judges' engagements, but that it is necessary to gradually introduce them and gradually bring them out of BiH's judiciary. And I would say that it is not a sudden termination, because they had a five-year term and they knew when this law was passed that their mandate was at those five years and in that time they should have instructed our judiciary to work after they left, as it should be in a country that seeks to join the EU and you know there is no story about it if we still have foreigners about such large and important institutions, is that it is also said that we have to have conditions for the parties to withdraw from certain institutions so that BiH can function independently and enter the EU. It kind of comes to me like we're helping someone to survive, and we didn't teach them how to work to survive. 63 A greater logic would be that foreigners are at the helm of these judicial institutions than to remain in them without being at the helm and then the question of what is the point. In Article 1, point (4) or (4), it is said: ‘The Council of the Department of Appeal and the Board of Appeal shall constitute domestic and international judges. Only one international judge can participate in each council of the Department and the Appellate Department." Well, what's that supposed to mean? That there's only such an international judge and there's a front for what was agreed there. If it had been... to be present to see them there on that appeal council agreeing and voting, etc., etc. I think it's more like it's just for some kind of cover if there was an international judge and it's all the way Bog would have commanded and it was. It is said in the explanation that "the evident results of international judges have been in the work so far". My men, there had to be results. If it hadn't been for the results, someone would have reacted by now, but the results are also behind the domestic judges, because, as someone said, but through this information, I think Mr. Lozančić, and we have heard the words of praise here, etc., and we haven't told them much, otherwise, that they didn't have much of the results. But now it's a question of what your results are. Are these results such that our judiciary is ready to operate without them based on those five years in which they were present and were able to instruct our judiciary and that it is now working independently and that in this area we also meet the conditions for EU accession? Someone said they advocate some here that BiH is going to the EU, I think Mr. Remzija Kadrić... well, it's via Belgrade. It seems to me that our goal is to join the EU and I personally don't care whether we can, if we can, join the EU as soon as possible, either through Belgrade, or through Zagreb, or via Sarajevo, or through Brussels or through any other city. It means that these are official cities of the border state that help us to join the EU as soon as possible. This is no problem for me through which we will enter the EU, if we can join the EU, but it seems to me that we are going that these cities will not help us either. And finally, Mr Cerić was through Belgrade in Serbia, and I hope he went there with the intention of helping BiH join the EU as soon as possible, and that it is nothing controversial, it is no wonder that interstate exchanges of officials, religious people, citizens etc. They are taking place to help one country towards another, and in this case to help BiH meet the requirements for EU accession as soon as possible. I hope that's why he went there, not some other reason. So I see that this mood is probably reflected in the previous analysis of the work of these judicial authorities, because we have brought these two points together and that it can be estimated that for now the foreign judges are based on the law that was previously passed –... at the time of 2004 when it was – here they were and were, let me say, the object that should not have been attacked, they ended their own. I hope they left a trail behind and made such an air conditioning that behind the father could remain a family still to live, rather than go into ambition and ruin. So much, and it can be seen from this that we will not be able to uphold this law, and as far as fate will be now, we will see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28898	I still have Denis Bećirović reported and we will practically conclude the debate and we will take a break from 14.00 to 15.00. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28899	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I believe this is a very important issue on the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today and it is very important that BiH develops the rule of law, because without the rule of law, there is neither economic nor political stability nor security nor democratic development of this country and its path towards the EU. The presence of international judges and prosecutors is certainly an important link in building an independent and professional judiciary in BiH, but also in building the rule of law in BiH. Certainly, if this intention were to leave out judges and prosecutors in the Organisational Crimes Department and the War Crimes Department, above all, would ignore the opinion of the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH chief prosecutor. We would ignore, which is also very important, and the Communications of the Peace Implementation Council, which recently, on June 30th, sent a very clear message in which direction we should go when this area is concerned. We also received very clear messages from EU High Representative Havijer Solana. So today we need to send a clear message to the EU and to the international community, but also to the local public – whether this country is serious and whether this country really intends to build a state in which the rule of law will be respected. Otherwise, if we don't follow all these recommendations, I'm afraid we'll have on the stage that one devastating policy in BiH has won, and the devastating political logic that is set out in a statement cannot be tried by prosecutors of another religion and nation. This is the only country in Europe where the biggest officials in this country can make such statements. You can't hear it anywhere in Europe anymore, only perhaps such statements can be found at the time of apartheid in the South African Republic, but in Europe, in any case, you can't hear such statements. However, not repeating everything that has been said on behalf of the SDP Club so far, I have reported the most about one thing. I do not understand, however, how the minister of justice could, in the light of these laws, leave out such important facts, and very important facts for the state of BiH – what the US opinion, what the EU opinion is, etc. Unfortunately, the minister knowingly or unconsciously left it out of reason. I don't understand why, but I think it's a really big failure. It is very clear here if someone is no longer clear or if someone has not read that support for the remainder of the international judges and prosecutors... has sent all the main international addresses. I remind you once again of the fact that the United Kingdom and France, Germany, Italy, officially supported the remainder of international judges and prosecutors sent by the United States to the diplomatic demarch, the United Kingdom and France, all of this was delivered to the minister of justice. The EU Presidency has made its position very clear. The High Representative sent a letter. The Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council sent a letter not to list all these important addresses. Why isn't that appreciated? Whether anyone in this country wants to go into confrontation with such important international addresses today, we must openly order it today. Foreign judges are certainly no problem for ordinary people in this country. For the vast majority of the poor and robbed Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others – foreign judges are not the problem. For the hands of those who have become rich in a suspicious way, foreign judges are the problem and therefore want to get rid of foreign judges in BiH. I do not want to repeat what the distinguished colleague Lagumdžija was talking about when he said in an explanation why he should, as stated here, why there should be no foreign judges in BiH. So 65 this is amazing that there can be this kind of thing in the explanation that it's exclusively for translation costs etc. The basic arguments why they want to eliminate foreign judges aren't these, we don't even need to talk about what the basic arguments are and the reasons for that anymore. People now publicly in the replicas of their fellow Lagumdžija have said what their ultimate goals are, what their ultimate intentions are, and there is no doubt anymore. That's why it would be good for us all to be aware of what this is about, this is a very serious thing, and we can't blur things out here, or we're making some arguments that just can't stand the weather test. Some MPs try to say that BiH has no sovereignty because of the presence of international judges, etc. - is really unsustainable. Namely, sovereignty is something that is meant to be. If a state is a state, it is thus sovereign; if it is not a state, it is neither sovereign. Since it's a question of the quality of that sovereignty, it's a different story, and I wouldn't be opening this topic today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28900	Replica Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28901	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not just a replica of this last exposure, it's a few exposures that are so far, but since I assumed there would be a reason to comment on them all and through the replica, here's what I saved for the end. After all these discussions, it means here, regardless of who represented it, so I said at the beginning of my debate -- this is a debate on the BiH judiciary. And this is a debate on different approaches to the organisation of justice. This is a debate on the BiH judiciary's trust. This is a debate on the trust of BiH institutions. We can pack it any way we want. So this is certainly not a debate about 5 or 10 or 15 international judges and prosecutors. I think it's absolutely incorrect for some colleagues to mention some people who aren't here in this room, they have people around them who might also mention them, who asked them and these judges to process them, so they didn't answer them either. So there's no need for that, you know... It's a clear political environment in which we're discussing this. To address this issue to the minister of justice who politely told you that this is a matter and part of the agreement, an international agreement that the BiH presidency reached with the Office of the High Representative, and the Presidency will not deal with it. What, gentlemen, are you not discussing? Leave the Minister of Justice alone. The man has brought you what – this is the Council of Ministers' proposal. I said, it's absolutely hard to defend the principles of this law. I'm responsible for that, both the Minister and anyone else, and it means to me and you, but we have the possibility: that we have a valid law without this one who knows what it is, and we have this as a compromise solution, and no compromise is perfect. We have a situation that the presidency that's a signator of this doesn't want to be obvious about it. What he doesn't want, I don't know, should be asked. And then we take it all down, we have a situation in the Council of Ministers that these bill proposals are mostly votes, so they're not consensually adopted by these laws, so compromise adopted, so they're not perfect. Now the question is, what do we want? The question is, shall we? But again, I've talked about it in the debate, it's not correct, Mr Dragan Čović, Dr Dragan Čović, in this country obviously bothers many. It bothers them because 66 is capable. Gentlemen, you must cross your abilities with him. Don't hide behind courts and prosecutors when you talk about Dragan Čović. Dragan Čović is responding neatly to all calls from all the courts in this country, and he is fine with the torture, and he is not troubled by it. We don't have that problem either, it has nothing to do with either the foreign or the domestic judges. So it's obvious that there's a policy in the country that tries to produce and invent some kind of crisis to keep here, I don't know, presence and OHR and judges international. I don't mind either one of them, but in this country we must take responsibility, both in courts, and in the prosecutions, and in the Council of Ministers, and in the Presidency, and in this Parliament, and let's not expect anyone else to decide forever on our behalf. If that's what you're expecting, I have to tell you that I'm disappointed, no matter who it was. We must take responsibility and we must answer to our citizens for the state, security, and rule of law, and the functioning of rights, etc. And don't do that when you don't have the arguments to put on the national court, because in my debate I didn't bring it down to the national court, and I don't think it's a question of national interest or non-interest, I tried to speak with arguments as to how I see the situation of the problem. And there's no need to mention any party president. If you mind, go ahead and face him in the stands, in the dialogue, etc. But indeed, there is no need for these subjects.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28902	Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28903	Well, I think today we need to send a very clear message of what we really want. And one of the important questions that we need to answer is the question, and after today's session, there will be no further dilemmas -- who in this country wants to converse with the international community, who doesn't want to? There are few questions where you find such agreement, such a degree of consent by both the US and the United Kingdom, and France, and Germany, and Italy, and the EU, and not to take all. People here have been very clear, uniquely, officially expressing their position whether we are going to ignore it, which is why, because of what agreements someone has made who knows where etc., or we are going to get serious and try really to respect the attitudes of those without whom BiH still cannot.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28904	Thank you. I don't have any more reports, I'm closing the hearing, and we're going on at 3:00. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, there's enough of us in the O.R. so we can continue the session. Mr. Dokić, please sit down. So, let me remind you, we have concluded the debate on points 7 and 8. 67 Let's go to point 9. Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28907	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, there are two questions here. One important question, as far as the law itself is concerned, the other is also important and it is not about the law, on the grounds of this law, and I would ask here that the minister of justice, they are the legislators of this law, until the second reading, so the question should be clarified precisely and the answer to the question should be answered: What does it mean to take away the defence office as assistant attorneys? What's the relationship, are they the bearers of defense functions or not? Because that depends on their overall position and, come on now, the position depends on the degree of authority or the type of authority they can have in front of courts and other bodies where the defenders represent. And you know what that means, I don't need to tell you anything special about it. This is a rather controversial question, and I ask you to charge your services that when we are on the Constitutional Court of Justice, this matter is considered to have been clarified and to see whether we need in the law this many conditions and such strict conditions to prescribe for the assistant attorneys. So that's to get it in touch with the courts, the court-holders, the prosecutors, the prosecutor's office. So, to clarify the matter, I beg you, I know you can do it, you can know it, and you can help us on the Constitutional Commission to finish it. And another thing I want to say for the public. The Justice Ministry is here as a promoter, the minister has nothing to do with this, but when you have an institution that has a head of one nation and has two deputy heads from two other nations and they rotate each other every eight months and then there's a law that regulates the functioning of that institution, I don't think it makes sense in BiH that, for example, representatives of the other two people have no idea what they're doing, and they're members of the College, that the law is being prepared, that the law goes to Parliament, its amendments. There are claims from the D.A.'s office that the D.A. didn't consult any deputies when it comes to the issue of this law. The colleagues on the Constitutional Commission said it had nothing to do with the law, they're right. It has nothing to do with the law, but it has to do with the fact that we have no law at all. That's not how BiH should work. In BiH, if nothing, at least those three men need to sit down and make a deal, and then go and hire the Justice Ministry, and then the minister will come here to Parliament and defend the law. I want to say this that simply such a practice is unacceptable, 68 anywhere to work in BiH. They're not there by chance. I, for example, loved that there were no deputies at all, that there was only a defense attorney and there was no rotation. That's what I stood for in 2002. But here, we just happened to get two deputies and a rotation. To take care of that, this is more about a message to the D.A.'s office. I think my club today because of all this, here's the president of the club, I don't have the right to speak, we'll refrain when it comes to voting on this text of the law. He'll probably pass to open up the possibility of investing the amendments, so please help us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28908	Good thing you're sure it'll pass. So, I thank Mr. Džaferović. Let me remind you, we have letters and assistants and prosecutors and his deputies. From the letter of the prosecutor and his deputies, the lawyer, excuse me; from the letter of the attorneys and his deputies that we have here, it turns out that none of the three of them knew. So the College was unique and they gave a unique view that the law passed by the College. So no one was, as it says here, privileged. But let's move on. Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28909	Here you are, Mr. Chairman, you've taken most of my replica. Namely, I would like to read somewhere or where it says or where the deputies wrote that they had consulted with others other than them. In fact, we all got a letter from the Justice Department signed by all three, so. So, everyone signed the letter to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice asking for it to be removed, this item was removed from the Council of Ministers' agenda, given that the BiH Law Department College as the most called body was impossible to discuss the proposed draft. So it wasn't the deputies that were disabled, it was the College that was disabled. And that's what I want to correct, so in Mr. Džaferović's address. And since I've taken my word for it, I won't discuss it, I have no obligation. The ministry had no obligation, we must say, to be absolutely clear that the Ministry had no obligation to carry out this kind of consultation and I am sure that in many laws, this or other ministries did not consult when they passed laws on amending laws with law enforcement. So this is about law enforcement people. Of course it would be good and desirable to have consulted, but we must make it clear that there was no obligation for such consultations to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28910	Before I give my word to the next debater, Mr. Čolak, do you have any needs, I've heard. Okay. 69 Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28911	Thank you, Chairman. Here's to mention that we will support this law in our first reading and appreciate that there is a need
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28912	Let's listen to each other, please! AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28913	:... for amendments to the law, however, we also think that we should not accept this law unconditionally, that is, the provisions that have been regulated, and in that sense and suggestions in the context, of course, from the views which have been made that before the second reading, the Ministry is manifested about the objections of the kolegij of pravobranilaštvo, and in particular the assistant attorneys, so a special letter which was delivered to us and the arguments that they made in their letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28914	Surely, depending on your statement on these things, it is also possible to amend this matter and I think that here the matter can be quite correctly solved to general satisfaction and employees and positions and service needs. This didn't go towards us for no reason. I don't have any more reports. This is how we absorbed point 9. Let's go to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposer: Adem Huskić (first reading) The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is positive about principles and constitutional basis and we got it, it's unanimous. I'm opening a debate. _________(?) 70 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28920	Mr President, on behalf of the Commission, I will only say a few sentences that this is the result of the vote. One member of the Commission was detained, three members of the Commission supported the list, four members of the Commission did not support the list. That's what I can say on behalf of the chairman of this committee about this, and now I'm going to speak for myself and for the party I belong to, the PDP. I've never seen a single reasoned reason why this list wasn't accepted. This fits into a general political scenario in BiH that is currently in place to block anything that can be blocked. Citing the reason to wait with the appointment of members of the Regulatory Commission for Communications until the Director is elected, they have indeed fallen into the water and represent one of the most common colorful lies. So, the same members of the party who advocated delaying a statement on members of the Regulatory Agency's Board until the director is elected, from these same parties ministers will not support the selection of directors, which is why they have previously announced that they are blocking. It's really an absurd thing to get into Giniz's book of absurds. The background is completely different, it's a fact, and I want to warn you, not wanting to elaborate now what's in that background, there's going to be a chance that this is being discussed, and I'm convinced this will go the way the Commission suggested, I'm convinced. I'm not disappointed at all, on the contrary. There's a reason for me to wish it were that way. I want to tell you now something that is very real and expect from the RS we wanted to contribute here to a compromise that does not heat the political situation in BiH, here, supporting a proposal from the Council of Ministers behind which all ministers have stood. But I assure you, we will all be unique on the next line. We will seek to correct a great injustice when it comes to this council, this advice that has so far been done towards the RS, which has been imposed by the international community. Which one of you will tell me that it is correct that there are only two members of the RS in the Board of Regulatory Agency of seven members. I assure you, these can remain infinite, that the next list will not be as it is now proposed. Of the seven members, I remind you, there are only two from the RS. In the previous structure of the Board of Regulatory Agency and the chairman and its deputy are from the Federation and the Director of the Regulatory Agency is from the Federation. So, I want to warn you that we are really going to seek full equality within the Board of Regulators and, once again, to underline, the election or the selection of directors, I am going to say my own opinion immediately: the director should have been elected long ago, but that is not why the election of members of the Regulatory Agency's Board is being obstructed. If the absurdity were greater, when it comes to individuals, the candidate is challenged, I would say, the only candidate who unequivocally meets the legal provisions to be a member of this council. So, around the others, it's very disputable, I'm not going to plead now. But one of the proposals that we will be looking for in the future when we discuss the future that the person who proposes to write the list individually satisfies these legal provisions to be there. I ask you, there are very serious MPs here, look at the Sectoral Telecommunications Policy adopted in December 2008, and you will see how many serious, professional issues this agency needs to discuss, and then tell me, aside from not fulfilling the laws of some 72 who have been proposed to us, whether writers, politicians, etc. can participate in these discussions at all, let alone make decisions. And I assure you they don't even know the terminology to be discussed. So, it is not a threat, as someone in this home who understands it as much as possible, I will insist for every individual in the future who comes to us to be in this important agency, who really needs to be depolitized and extremely professional, expert – to write which conditions it satisfies. So, there's something else, let's be honest, and when everything is calmed down about the election of the Regulatory Agency, and let's agree to raise the question of the amendments to the Communication Act that regulates the choice of the Board of Regulatory Agency: the new advice chooses the old advice! So didn't we have an absurd situation that all those who applied from the old council were chosen and came to us on the list, those 14 are not all within these seven now, that they called themselves for talks, and that 20 and some other candidates, who met all the conditions, even uncomparedly more legal conditions than those who proposed to us here within 14 not only these seven, were not even invited to talk. Look, it's absurd that one body chooses itself. And if nothing else, you know that last time I launched an initiative against the Council of Ministers to make the law harmonize between public and radio-television services in BiH. And here, I will tell you openly, I will support something that the MPs of the Federation Parliament voted on, and they are not in the RS and this home. Well, it's that the board of directors doesn't choose the Board of Regulatory Agency, which is in one's heads designed by definition as an apolitical body, professionally, but to be as proposed by the federal parliamentarians. Under the protection of independence and professionalism (I am responsible here to say that in this context, I am talking about the old congregation) it worked very unprofessionally, insufficiently, and that people were at least dealing with their own questions. And once again, I ask you - regardless of today's discussion, from today's vote - take the Official Messenger and read the Council of Ministers' Decision on Policy in the Telecommunications Sector, so see if these issues can be discussed by those who, according to their profession, are incompetent, who do not meet even the legal requirements, which are within these 14 which are forwarded by the current Governing Agency Council to us to discuss them. And yet, here's my suggestion, to see how professionally it's been done, we have the right to ask, I won't insist, I know, to ask and to deliver to us a list of those who have been rejected, with whom no conversation has been made, and to see if these conditions are met by law, to be members of the Regulatory Agency's Council. Thank you, here's mine, I've used my time.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28921	Replica, Mehmed Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28922	Dear Chairman, this is not the first time Professor Dokić has given us such exhaustive lectures. However, he can be much stricter on the Commission, but I would remind him here, although he may not have some direct connection, that at the 33rd session of the House of People, held on 23rd. Seven. In 73 2009, the rejected Rang-list of candidates for member of the RSVBiH Management Board from the Serb people so that the procedure will have to be repeated. Previously, the House of Representatives supported the ranking and proposed the appointment of Aleksandar Bogdanić as a member of the Management Board. I would like to remind you that in this case, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has appointed members of the RTVBiH Management Board from the Rang-list of candidates submitted to it by the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I mean, there's a lot of dust up here now because of the fact that the Commission voted against the list, we're going to see what the result of the vote on Parliament will be, but I'm saying we have things that are happening, which I've listed, so we should avoid double arches anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28923	...reported for discussion. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28924	I wasn't planning on it, but the discussion by the chairman-in-Office of the Commission inspired me to say a few words. He says there are some cool games. There are, colleagues Dokić, and indeed, there is something behind this urgent attempt to appoint this new RAK Council, because two years ago you know that the RAC Council has appointed former director Kemal Huseinović. The Council of Ministers, or the chairman, never wanted to put it in session, took two years, and now suddenly it's trying to push itself through something urgent. My position was on both the Commission and Parliament: there are two candidates here, number one Bošković and Šehić who deserve to be in such an independent agency. It's hiding, and it's certainly hiding this six-way deal from Laktas, I said last time, and now I'm saying, this twin who was in Belgrade the other day, Čović and Dodik, obviously want to take over the RAC. Someone wants to appear to bring down the RAC or take over, take control of the BiH media, and that's the plan. Well, it can't go as easily as you think. And you're giving us all a lecture here, and we know it's not clean work. Not to repeat this information about the ethnic cleansing of Banja Luka, the role of Slobodan Bošković. He's writing us a letter. I thought I was saying now that a man like that doesn't deserve to be in an agency like this. My position was also on the Commission and it is now... that we vote, of course, on the Commission's opinion. If it doesn't pass, there's a new conflict going on. I don't know who's there or who else checked in, which isn't. I think this is the only solution to having a new competition, so let's get it signed up, make it a fresh start. And we have the RAC Council, we have a candidate, we just need good will, not trade and go on to bring down this kind of institution that is very important to the BiH state. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28925	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28926	Thank you, Chairman. I would, I simply warned all of us when we talk about others not to use such strong terms and terms as ethnic cleansing. The man doesn't have any charges, the man doesn't have any convictions. We can talk here, if we've already come to 74, about some kind of moral political character of a particular Mr. candidate, but qualified people in that way and talked about them, and there's nothing behind it, so please let us get it out of our vocabulary, because it's too heavy a charge of such things if we don't have any material evidence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28927	Replica, Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Živković took a lot of what I wanted to say, and maybe it's better not to continue this lardy. I also offered last time all MPs to look at this potential disputed telephone conversation that was intercepted and which was conducted during that period. And if there's anything controversial out there, anything controversial, then here I am putting myself on a pillar of shame. A conversation that was held in '91. in the year, a conversation that was on the topic of mobilization at a time when in JNA, at a time when the whole Yugoslavia was, if we were to dispute it, so how many MPs who spoke directly to Radovan Karadžić were in meetings, not having phone conversations. There's a whole tenth behind this. And good thing my colleague Bahtić says that, I hope that in one atmosphere we will consider it all differently, see and show what is behind it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28929	Let's move on with the replicas. Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28930	And once and for all, I'm going to be a colleague of the same replica... I know well, I have a lot of friends in Banja Luka, I've been in Banja Luka for 15 years, I know, and it's good, they're scattered all over the world, mostly in Sweden and America, and I know well that everyone says that Mr. Bošković was the one. He confesses here in his... act, and says, gone dude in '91, of course, he knows when it was. He's done his job, so he's gone. There's this transcript of conversation here and it's nice to say, he even walked the field, mobilized, sent, there's nothing he didn't do. He admits it, he can't hide it, here's what anyone can see he has, he can't do it... I don't think a person like that deserves it. [[You don't understand.]] And had it not been for ethnic cleansing, it was, brother, in Krajina, in all and one city – ethnic cleansing, classical ethnic cleansing and camps. And this man was involved, you know, crisis headquarters, and that man was... close to my friend, the late Radić, who was involved in Banja Luka Municipality at the time. And if it's still... the prosecution, it's not. You know, we're there, who lived there, what who did, how who got out, how did...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28931	Let's move on with the replicas. Nice to Kalabić you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28932	Here, we didn't appreciate these appeals that we're not going to this kind of replica on this thing, but really, when you use such hard words and if last time it was elaborated for a man, but well, you can say anything here. Even though we've had a debate today about these prosecutors, judges and all, I don't believe anyone delivered anything to these people for this man, here's also used for this pay phone. I do not believe, my colleague Bahtić, that you have spoken in any other place evil of this man, nor have you told anyone to find something that is controversial, to which you were right. So this is now used for political purposes, but well, you're using that right, although I don't understand when you in the BiH Party became media experts.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28933	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28934	Well, I don't know when you became an expert on the media, did you ever get that beat-up back there when it was? So I don't think you're the most suitable person, you're not the most sophisticated person in BiH who would be about these things and who would form a media picture and the rest, to be correct, because now you've taken an example of a man to count how and what it was, besides the institutions that exist so that they count it and we don't argue with you. Probably, if I were to propose to that reporter there right now that you dumped him to get into that Council, you'd object, object. So, I think when it comes to cancer, the Council and the media that you should step away from that topic and there's some more inviting that maybe we should, come on, have to go on that topic. I'm telling you this well-intentioned because I know those SDPs are waiting for you, they know this man, they know everything, and they're waiting for you, just this time we had to react to these things. So when I say that these people were doing a serious job, the demolition is what you suggest we don't choose, I guess that's tearing down the institution and entering some uncertain waters. And as far as we're concerned, there's Professor Dokić quite right, there are other intentions and they're some explanation, those who bring it down, I don't think we should explain it. We're ready to finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28935	I'd like to ask you a little bit, just a little bit, Mr. Bahtić, there's already two replicas before you, so there's five more, I'd ask you, this really doesn't make any sense, this doesn't lead to anything, no use of this doesn't. But here we go in a row. Momčilo Novaković. I mean, if you want to make a better artistic impression, let's schedule an hour and have a good fight, and get on with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28936	I respect the suggestion, Chairman. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28937	Thank you very much. Please give up both of you. Mr. Dokić, Mr. Bahtić, give up the replica to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28938	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28939	Sure, go ahead, take five minutes right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28940	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28941	No, no, there you go. You're up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28942	Thank you. I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28943	Thank you. Mr. Dokić, you gave up, too? Thank you. Let's move on. I have a discussion on Mr. Husein Nanić's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28944	I thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28945	No more replicas, no more replicas, and hello. Mr. Nanić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28946	I thank you for the opportunity to say something. I think Mr Dokić and, as the president of the Commission, by his own discussion, has caused what he is and a completely justified reaction through his transfer.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28947	Don't let yourself be challenged.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28948	I'll try not to challenge the replicas. Here I've heard a lot of threats from Mr. Dokić about how he won't let anything happen, how something's done. I've heard two things that the way of the election of 77 members of the Council is being called into question, this member of the Council that we need to vote on, that it is irregular, that interviews have been carried out properly, that they are not in accordance with the regulations, etc. and we heard the dispute of the former Council, the work of the former Council, their competences, etc. And why is that coming now? I just want to mention one thing and look back at the Council of Ministers' conclusion that has been adopted on the appointment of the Director of RAC. These are two things and, as many as anyone is trying to separate them, they are completely connected, inseparable from each other and it is the same institution, where the Council of Ministers concluded that it has not made a decision to confirm the appointment of the Director General of the RAC. So what's next? And it has been concluded that within 15 days, the Agency's Board of Directors shall re-open a competition for the selection and appointment of the Director-General of the RAC, by the end of the procedure for the appointment of the Director-General to date as acting Director-General. Does this mean that we will not welcome, we wait two years, meaning the appointment of a director in the legal, legal procedure, with unanimous support from one who was to get a new RAC Council to act under this Council of Ministers' conclusion. It's an obstruction, Mr. Dokić, you're a master of thesis replacement, it's an obstruction. I don't trust the chairman of the Council of Ministers to want to end this in accordance with the law. This shows by every move, and therefore I could not support this way as a member of the Commission. There are still a lot of arguments here to be presented, but here, not wanting to cause replicas, I'm going to stop at what I've said so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28949	Mr. Lozančić signed up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28950	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28951	Discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28952	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28953	No replicas, I'm done. There isn't. Sit down, Mr. Dokić, I'm done with the replicas. Sit down, Mr. Dokić, no more replicas, no more Bahtić, no replicas on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28954	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I begin on the agenda and on this item of the agenda, I would like to give you all a warm welcome to Dr Dragan Čović and a desire for the successful work of this Parliament. 78 And now about the agenda. We had this item on the agenda before we left for this summer break. She's been through all the procedure. This is for reminders or stenograms, I know you know everything. It is one of the independent regulatory agencies that exist in BiH and that once had been a prerequisite for some step towards our European integration and for the assessment of some progress BiH has made on its path of democratisation and the path of general progress. Last time, in my opinion, we unwarrantedly delayed the statement on this proposal. I respect everyone's right to think of the proposal whatever they want, but I don't think we have the right to delay the plea. So we have the right to make a statement about this proposal and we can accept this proposal, we can reject it. At that moment, if we accept it, these people will assume their laws of intended function, if we reject that proposal, they will assume their laws of intended function. And that's the only thing in this House's jurisdiction. We all assume, conjecture or think we know what's going on before, behind, etc., but I'm really inviting you to try to do what we do. So we have a proposal, we have the right to accept it, we have the right to refuse it. Let's use our rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28955	Mr. Dokić, today is the last time I chair this term. So if you insist, I don't mind, I'll give you a replica, but really please because... there's no end, believe there's no end.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28956	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28957	Well, that's why I break the lines because it's not worth it. And Mr. Lozančić, please give Dr. Čović a return welcome from Mr. Belkić, a graduate economist.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28958	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28959	Please, nice. So let's move on. I conclude, I no longer report, I conclude debate on point 13. Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Declaration on the initiative of the SNSD Club MPs on the discussion at the House meeting Information on the effects (normal, regulatory and institutional benefits) of legal solutions transferred by entities to the level of joint bodies in BiH 79 The MPs' club therefore delivered this initiative. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission has also been given. Therefore, the Commission did not support this initiative. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any reports, I'm guessing. There's, there's, I'm sorry, you need to be faster. So Azra Hadžiahmetović was reported. Here you go. Is it for the replica and for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28961	No, I'm sorry, it's a little bit, and I'm really sorry. I really have a lot of respect for the Initiative, especially with the signature of some colleagues from this House, but here some things I couldn't quite understand. You have so one drastic deviation from the name of the Initiative and the arguments of the Initiative. So I would fully accept the greatest part of the argument, especially this part where you say that the assumptions for the assessment of the normative, regulatory and institutional effect that followed as a consequence, etc., here you say, transfers of competence, so call on, or refer to, the methodology established by the OECD. Among other things, you yourself say that this methodology is an institutional analysis within existing capacities as a method of systematic and consistent testing of costs and benefits of potential effects of laws and regulations. So, if you were going to launch an initiative in the sense that using maybe even this method or some other method, I will say especially in the broad repertoire of one of the most modern areas of macro-economy, which is an institutional economy: an assessment of the efficiency of institutions and the impact of institutions on growth in one country. So let's say, among other things, you can determine that, let's say 1% strengthening institutional capacity contributes 1% of GDP total growth. Something similar to this OECD methodology is talking about it. So, the reasoning is if we are to analyse the efficiency, i.e. the contribution of strengthening institutions at the level of the state, or in BiH, in terms of their contribution, i.e. to consider the possible issue of the work of all institutions. However, the name of your initiative, which has nothing to do with this reasoning, is similar – I will now use the terminology of the Law on Joint Labour, as one remembers – when theOUR wonders how his working community of joint services works. So since there are no OURs or working communities of joint services anymore, we will not support this initiative, because this initiative includes 'Information on Effects', and then you state what is very finely called in the explanation for a concrete OECD method which, of course, does not refer to the transfer of competence from entities to state level, you say at the level of joint bodies in BiH. So we would support a real initiative to consider using this or some other method of strengthening institutional capacity to contribute to, say, economic growth or bringing European integration closer, etc., or let's even consider the work of state institutions, efficiency, and see if or not they work, why they don't work, what they need, etc., but we won't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28962	Replica, Živković. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28963	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I realized from your discussion that you actually want to discuss this and that this could be the point of the agenda sometime in the future when we get enough material to make that point a quality one. I figured it out from your discussion, not the argument that it's not in line with the agenda that's being proposed here. This doesn't have to be the point of the agenda, this is the initiative and it's being discussed. And today, we're just voting on putting this as a part of the agenda. Whether the agenda point is going to be one way or another, it's up to us to agree. At the same time, I have no intention of doing this once, and I have supported at least five very high-quality evidence of what common institutions are and how I see it, therefore, I have no intention of discussing it. And I think from your discussion, you're in favour of passing this initiative to the agenda once in a while in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28964	Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28965	Correction of the wrong quote. I've been very clear, you have a bullet in this paper where you have the name of the initiative you're running and an explanation. I say that many parts of your reasoning point to the need to discuss the efficiency of the work of state institutions, not to transfer competences. So you would have to change the name of this initiative. Because this is how your initiative is addressed, I repeat, is like – whenOUR wonders how the working community of the joint service works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28966	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28967	Is it a public debate? Replica? Yes, yes, there you go. We're going to SOUR, we're going to SOUR.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28968	Let me try to explain it in a vivid way. The transfer of powers to the BiH Prosecutor's Office went through the signing of the prime minister who was then in RS. I want to talk about it as an effect of transferring the jurisdiction of such an institution that we have here. What's the problem? Unless someone wants to discuss the effect of such an institution that we have made in BiH, its work, and it is about the transfer of competence.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28969	Two sentences to help. So, it's not about our approach to this whole thing, so we're ready to discuss the capacity and competence of BiH institutions, not 81 making a difference between those originally created and those created by the transfer of competences, etc. So we are not interested in specific capacity and competence activities, that is, the effects of any kind and only those of which you are talking about, we are interested in talking about BiH institutions, from the point of view of capacity, competence and their promotion of work. But here, well, I hope we're clear. Azra, do you have, is that a third, a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28970	Thank you. I had the first correction to the wrong quote, now it's the first replica, the chairman. Col. Živković, paragraph of two explanations of your initiative, says: 'It calls for the introduction of an institutional analysis of the regulatory benefits of RIA within existing capacities as a method of systematic and consistent examination of the costs of benefits and potential effects of laws and regulations'. This is not an appropriate name for your initiative. This is more relevant to what counterpart Belkić was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28971	Let's move on, discussion, replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28972	I, when I translate this protest dictionary of my colleague Azra, he says, "I'm against this at all costs." I've got three or four reasons why I'm against this, so it's going to be the first one in a row, so now it's going to be the second one that when we translate it says it -- it's been transferred as it's been transferred, there's no discussion, and the political message is for a new transfer of jurisdiction: convey and you know that it's never going to be discussed how it works. Now there's the problem that you're sending a message to the next story where there's a clear procedure for the transfer of jurisdiction. So you, those who decide on this transfer of jurisdiction, are sending a message that what they have conveyed is that there is no debate and that this is the end of the story and that here is how the esteemed colleague Džaferović throws away, that we forget it. If it's a story that pitted us to stop, then there's no further story. So, I'm doing it in such a hurry as you said, and I think we have more conversations to talk about. When we talk about a new transfer of jurisdiction, I'll take that explanation of yours, I'll ask you so I'll just put my signature behind what you've just said. I expected it, which is why we didn't report, that this initiative will be voted on, and you can freely participate, as counterpart Živković said, in creating a agenda point, if it should be just as you thought, as you wish, means if you want to discuss it. And if you want to be against it, you can both make it complicated and simple. Here, you chose to say it complicatedly today, that you're against it, and you could simply -- we're not going to support this -- and not related to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28973	Let's move on, Denis Bećirović. Tick dots, as they say, Denise. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28974	I would like firstly to say that we, as MPs in the BiH Parliament, who are to respect, respect the BiH Constitution and who have sworn to respect the BiH Constitution, have the first problem we need to say about an initiative that uses unconstitutional terminology. Namely, there is talk here about the transfer of competences from entities to the level of joint bodies in BiH, such organs are not available in this country. There is a BiH Constitution and it only knows BiH's organs. The difference between the joint bodies and the BiH authorities is great and, if we want to consistently, whether to respect the BiH Constitution, then first we need to delete this 'joint bodies'. So we are pleading on this initiative, which is not at all constitutionally consistent in an adequate way. Furthermore, this initiative is an indication that still, we know that this initiative was first adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that SNSD MPs are in charge of trying to delegate this issue here and put it on the agenda, however, it is also necessary to make very clear to the RS Assembly that it ceases to engage with the entire international community. Well, here, and the last commies of the Peace Implementation Council Management Board have literally reached one conclusion: 'that statements and activities that challenge the sovereignty and constitutional order of BiH', I stress this especially now, 'as well as attempts to annul previously agreed reforms and weaken existing institutions at the state level show an open non-compliance with the fundamental principles of the Peace Agreement, which is for the Peace Implementation Council', they said 'unacceptable, with a clear message that it must stop." It would be good for authors of such initiatives to keep that fact in mind. Of course, when you look at the BiH Constitution, especially the BiH Constitution, which speaks of the continuity of BiH, here, if we want to fully consider, here is an attempt to consider the effects of the transfer of competence from entity to state. However, in accordance with Article I of the BiH Constitution, an open question can be asked here - what are the effects that the state has delegated some of its competences to entities in 1995? Shall we open that story and see the other side of the medal? However, it is clear that these topics will not lead us to the right solution and it would be good to turn to the right topics, because here both ministers and many MPs cried and said in late July that we should work in August to meet those conditions for the visa liberalisation agreement. Here, we even have a September session, and not a single point dedicated to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28975	Replica, Drago Kalabić, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28976	I'm sorry it can't pass. I really thought that we would break this up with a statement and that everyone would say their relationship there but, as counterpart Bećirović now said, the exact same thing was said in the 1990s by Borisav Jović. Whenever the... demands came, I remember it well, from Slovenia, from Croatia, from neither do I, Macedonia, he grabs those books and says -- here's what they do to us, I don't know, like this, and there's no understanding, it's the exact same story, it's the exact same story. Everyone, everyone's requirement for reform then is then characterised as well, you know what, here's the exact same story today where an analysis of the effects of an operation is sought, as you will, means an analysis within a country and to see how it works. Running away from that story means that it's not going to work, that fear of that analysis, that's clear to us, and the message is quite clear. What's the issue then if we're going to analyze how it works, I don't know, the Food Control Agency, what's the issue? What's the matter? So we'll negotiate an assessment of whether it works, whether it's better for the municipalities to organize or whether it's a state. Is anyone afraid of this debate to say if food control on the counter would work better, I don't know, municipal, county, cantonal or whatever you want? But no, and she has to come from Sarajevo to that gig. If he doesn't come, he doesn't, he doesn't have a life. We have seen this analysis, the fear of this analysis gives the opportunity to those who are well aware of this whole story, which by the agencies, which are everywhere, and you are thus protecting them from any analysis, they are well, they are well. This way you protect them, I didn't compare you for free, the same picture, the same condition was. So day and day every request is meant for the analysis of individual processes and for the fear of this analysis is experienced in such a very low way, that I don't get rougher, as a request for, I don't know, the destruction of the state, for destruction. It really doesn't make sense. So asking every question what's finished is the Holy Scriptures, it doesn't open, as soon as you get out on the street people tell us that it doesn't work, that it's not good and that we're responsible to analyze it. Let's go into analysis and face arguments so let's make them stronger and say that we did it right, we did it right, we did it right, and we would do it again. Or if something doesn't work, let's talk about how, how we can make it work. But running away from any conversation is a message that someone is afraid of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28977	Replica, Denis Bećirović. Did I see this right, Denise?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28978	My colleague Kalabić and I have had a series of discussions and controversy over some open issues over the past and, among other things, about what happened in the 1990s, especially in the early 1990s. But I am glad that in the third year of office, Mr Kalabić publicly admitted that Borisav Jović had led a harmful policy, which I have claimed so far. And where he found the parallel between that attitude and this, that's another question now. Mr. Kalabić says he wants to examine what it is that has been transferred from entity to state level and what the effects are. It is the legitimate right to ask you for it, I have not said anything other than that it is perfectly legitimate for me and for some other MPs to consider the effect of the fact that certain responsibilities and effects have been transferred from the BiH state in 1995 to the entity level. So that is an entirely even proposal that we can talk about and then come to certain conclusions. My whole story was based on a member and the BiH Constitution, which I don't have to quote, I believe you know him.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28979	We're going back to the registered debaters. Mr. Branko Dokić. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28980	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, if we are discussing something, then we need to talk to arguments and talk about the agenda point. What our colleague Bećirović quoted from Kominika, I don't know who PIC really has anything to do with the agenda. This does not raise the issue of abolishing the delegated competences, but is about issues of efficiency of the delegated competences. I finished high school in Zenica and in the context of the circumstances of the Serbian-Croatian language teacher, at the time in Zenica, we called that language, which we all spoke, Ankica Bećirović, by chance is called a colleague Denis, to anyone who in this written task from the Serbian-Croatian language confused the subject or missed the topic gave the unit. We don't have the right to judge anyone here, but this really deserves a clean unit. This isn't why I called. This was on the way. What I mean is, I really don't see any reason why this house wouldn't discuss the effects, see if it was useful or not useful. If it's useful, it's also a recommendation for some other jurisdiction. If we see that it's more useful for everyone, then it could be a recommendation. If it turns out it wasn't useful, then let it be a warning. I want to remind you, and don't name now what MPs are here, when in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia debated this issue, that then you said it wasn't a place to discuss it there, it's a place to discuss here, all together, not to evaluate only one side of the effects, but to evaluate all of them. So why would it be taboo topic and why would it even be an empty discussion? I'm not going to say that's the most difficult question, but as far as I understand it, the pronoun doesn't insist on the next session, but says here's the initiative we're going to include when we prepare the material and the College is agreed, even on the name... they don't ask a question. But the bottom line is, once again, I'm saying that this house is discussing the effects of the delegated powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28981	Replica, Denis Bećirović. Mr. Lijanović, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28982	Mr. Dokić, as an experienced MP, should have realized by now that it is entirely irrelevant that he would have given me one or that I would have given him one for his actions. It is important to assess the citizens who choose us or do not choose us in this house and they will give their assessment of how who works and what it stands for and what it proposes in the BiH Parliament. Mr. Dokić, I have stated very precisely, unlike you, what has been concluded by the Komunike, or what has been concluded in the Communication of the Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council. These people out there know what it's all about, and what you're talking about right now, it's one story for little kids. We have been listening all day, not only trying to discuss the effects of the transferred powers, but people have openly said they want to abolish both the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office and other BiH institutions. Therefore, these MPs who have spoken of it in the best possible way today have denied you, and I have not quoted anything but what really stands and what is the assessment of the Peace Implementation Council's Governance Board. That you have a problem with the Peace Implementation Council's grades, that's your problem, not mine. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28983	Now we have three lines, right? We can make a deal like that, and we can go in a row. Dear Ambassador Branko Dokić has a replica of Mr Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28984	It's really inappropriate from a young colleague, and I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28985	Thank you. The next one for the replica is Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go, with the possibility that new replicas may not be caused.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28986	Well, they have other options, I'll take advantage of those I have. So, no friend of mine, Milica, she spoke today. But I admire that Mr. and colleague Denis Bećirović who is very and, indeed, this is objectively my one rational opinion, a very smart and active politician. It's not a boast before the elections, because if we're both missing each other, neither you nor I will, because the people have no opinion about you or me... don't be in illusions, but good. So, there's no fellow Milica, but really, you've given her enormous importance, if... yes, and I'd like to see... honestly that she can abolish the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, so then her capacities are greater than the dictators in, I don't know, some countries down there that have neither democracy nor anything. So you're alluding it wrong, so you're alluding it wrong. But here's what, we need people to really question these agencies sometime. There's a lot of reasons, I'd say I ask them like this -- how come a single agency should approve itself of 200 thousand marks to buy three cars? And they're only asking for pay cuts from parliamentarians. So let's just say that when that debate comes up, I ask them -- how come the director of the agency's right to keep himself unlimited for the phone, someone pays him, pays the people? So I have to ask countless of these various agencies to see how they just work, but as soon as we ask that question, you immediately think that we have the capacity, that we will bring them all back to RS, and many of course are counter-constitutionally transferred, it is not possible. Don't look like that right now. For example, I would have to ask the director of the Veterinary Agency or food control: why do our trucks stand for two months and release Croatian or Serbian in two hours? Now, that's the debate we're asking to see what efficiency is and what they're doing, what they're contributing to this country. As I've now asked a question about this seminar of these ambassadors, and I wasn't even down at that rally, the journalists met me, I was on the other one, but they saw me, passed by and said hello. And I told everyone I would suggest that the presidency assign him an order that brought a single investor into this country and made economic contacts. And that's the debate on these responsibilities: do we have to have an embassy in one country, and in another where we may not need it more! These are all things that this Parliament must discuss and we must analyse. What you're afraid of, really, is what we're going to pass on and return, so it's not possible, people. You have to accept that to discuss everything. Here, first subject to be me, let's say. 86 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28987	Thank you. Dear colleague, Professor Ajanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28988	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we should actually start with the Constitution. The constitution lists BiH's competences and says the entity's agreement to transfer certain competences to the state and the matter becomes BiH's constitutional matter, and that's the end of the story. Now, with regard to the work, efficiency and reasons of ineffectiveness of certain institutions in BiH, this should be discussed and analysed in any case. But if we go to the whole work of BiH institutions, then first we need to start with Parliament and ask why Parliament is inefficient in its work. So it would be objective to show certain things, because if it's about some agencies, it's a big question. You take, the agency forms, I don't know, together or whatever you want at the state level as a body, and... in the budget don't predict the funds. Here's what we did last year. We built a drug agency, and they're struggling because they don't have the resources. Because... budgets aren't meant for that work. Therefore, there are many reasons, but that means it should be analysed within all the institutions that have actually become the constitutional category of this country, and more, that means, if we agree on some things and transfer them to BiH, we can't speak unilaterally now, we have to return those institutions. Well, that's bullshit, it's known, because the Constitution says clearly that, apart from those eight or nine, I can't say strictly now, BiH's competencies, it says that entities can agree to transfer other powers, and they've already done so.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28989	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28990	Just for a little while, Mr. Chairman, there's almost no need. So here's the problem between what's written and what's being said today as an explanation. And that's why the Constitutional Commission didn't accept this. Because if you address something with the Information on the effects of the normative, regulatory and institutional benefits of legal solutions that have been transferred to the level of BiH entities, at the level of BiH institutions, you are actually questioning the justification of the transfer of those powers, which is of course a completely unacceptable thing. And then, in an explanation, they focus these discussions on the work of institutions. So it's not a problem to discuss the work of institutions, we need to discuss the work of institutions, see what they lack, what support they need to do in order to do their job as successfully as possible, and that's something else entirely. And I'd like to see here the head of the Council of Ministers and the Ministerial Minister for every BiH-level institution to ask what he's done over the past four years when he took over that institution to make 87 of them like this today or what he didn't do, and he should have done it. And I don't run away from that kind of discussion, we need that kind of discussion. And as far as this cave is concerned, no doubt, these are the powers that have been transferred to the state, and we're all here again, we're all in charge of these powers, none of whom is taking anything, because we're all in charge of it. And as far as I'm concerned, my relationship with that principle, he's not bailing, I'm going to fight my whole life to avoid being the one who pitted, pitted. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28991	And here, we still have Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28992	Thank you, Chairman. I had the wrong quote and one replica. And I have a business right to another replica and, look, I'm glad it's in the end, just for a little while. Professor Dokić, who is probably a professor outside the State Parliament, as there are several of us, is here an MP who, among other things, explained how someone would get a unit on a missed topic, so here I would just like to remind myself that I have just pointed out the discrepancies of the name of this initiative launched by the SNSD and the arguments. As professor, Professor Dokić should know that RIA methodology cannot be applied to this as this initiative reads. And he'd get a unit in that sense. And secondly, Slavko, we're not afraid, but here's the reason why we're as scared as you think. Maybe because they're scared of short legs.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28993	I'm finishing my school year and this evaluation. We cross and conclude, of course, point 13, i.e. 14. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. A statement on MP Mirko Okolić's initiative to discuss the House of Dot session: "A consideration of the citizens' group's initiative on the founding of BiH's judicial authorities on the processing of war crimes at the time of the tragic war conflict on BiH territory" I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šefik Džaferović applied for the debate. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28995	I just want to warn the House, it also stands in my exceptional and opinion of Dr Genjac,... with an exceptional opinion and particularly expressed in the report of the Constitutional Commission after the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission that this is not a topic which (I will now use this term, so we have the terms we need, can, may), therefore, this is not the subject that Parliament is allowed to discuss. So, I'm going to use the most difficult form of these words, because this is the thing that is in the exclusive competence of the BiH judicial authorities. If we mistake the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities and the legislative institutions, then we'll have total chaos in the legal system. It is further a matter on which the BiH Constitutional Court has taken its stand and there is a Constitutional Court ruling on the issue of the application of Criminal Law in war crimes cases. It is about the timing of the Kiwi Law and it is about the questions on which the answers are given to the institutions of this country and I just want to warn you that this is a topic which is not a topic for Parliament but for other institutions and to call on Parliament not to fall into this kind of trap. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28996	We're moving on to further-reported debaters. Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28997	Thank you, Chairman. So be careful whether it's a topic or not, I'd like to say that the moment we put that item in the agenda and discuss it, and here I have no objection to having a discussion to the conclusion so it's not a topic and that no controversy, no conclusions, are further being conducted in that debate, and that through the debate it's the subject of Parliament. It is obvious that the problem exists and cannot be said that it may not be the subject of this Parliament, because a certain number of citizens treated on this basis, means for crimes in the past war, and express their dissatisfaction, or dissatisfaction that no one can fully understand them, because the legislation does not apply the same to members of all peoples. Here two nations are isolated from the third, etc. This can be true, and it does not have to be true, and we will determine the moment when we discuss it, that is, when the committee responsible calls for some debate in its rules of procedure for all relevant and relevant factors to discuss. And if they say that's the case, I accept it, but condemning this point to ruin before all of it is declared, without any obligation and without any pressure on the judiciary, it's absurd to me. If this is all true, then I see no reason why anyone is afraid this is going to Parliament's agenda. If it's the opposite, then I see a reason to be afraid, and try to make an obstruction so this doesn't go on the agenda. As for me personally, any such initiative that he suggested, and there were such initiatives where we supported it to come to the agenda, and during the debate on the agenda, we said what we thought, or we denied it if we needed to deny it. I think this is a good thing to stand at the end of this, put on the agenda, that the committee in charge prepares it, analyzes it, or conducts a certain discussion with the expert in this area and this Parliament to propose a solution on how to get out of this, that is, a proposal for a solution whether something needs to be changed or not. Because it's impossible for someone who says that it's more unfavourable to him than any other thing to get an answer from the one who imposes it on him, no, no, no, it's more favourable to you than I tell you, no matter what you say is more favourable to you. So he has no right to say or to express his opinion that it is more unfavorable for him than it is on the basis of which it is now applied when it comes to processing or already finished processing. I don't think there's really any fear of any kind of pressure here, and there's no fear of clearing up about this once and putting an a, if all this is misspelled, if this initiative doesn't make any sense at all. And if it makes sense to see, people, who can fix it and who can bring it into such a state that it doesn't, to say, justice and injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28998	Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u28999	So, just for a little while, Mr. Chairman. I have no intention of arguing with anyone, I just want to warn Parliament and speak only as a lawyer now, so as a lawyer I speak. The answers to all these questions are given. They were given by the Constitutional Court, given by the one who needs to answer you. Parliament and his commission were not invited to give these answers. And there's no problem because the problem is solved by the Constitutional Court's decision. There are dissatisfaction with how the Constitutional Court has settled. He can't because some of them are unhappy that we are now opening a problem where we don't have to open it, because it would be the same as if the Traffic and Communications Commission were to call on the man who caused the car accident and tried him for a car accident and sentence him to jail. That, therefore, is proposed, so it is the same, and I only want to warn Parliament of that, please, because I am obliged to do so, and I will not answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29000	Here's Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29001	Obviously from the past topic and this topic that we can't really discuss, and that's the essence of these discussions. I would like to say that the Transport Commission also gave an interpretation, so she said that Mr. Čustović could stay in place by getting involved in what is the Constitutional Commission's job, which is interpretation. So with our commissions, you know, they can do anything and everything, so I just set an example of what only one commission you mentioned was doing. On the other hand, in 2007, people urged Strazbur to do exactly what the BiH Constitutional Court did. So it's not over. This will come to us and we will discuss it as we discussed and we will discuss the case against BiH (people who believe their rights are at stake because they could not run for BiH's top positions, and this is a matter of changing the BiH Constitution). So we're going to discuss this issue, whether it's going to be now, today, tomorrow or in a year, we're proposing that we do it now and prevent the possibility of suing the court in Strasbourg. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29002	Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29003	Here, on the discussion of Mr. Okolić in which he said that war criminals convicted therefore feel wrong because there is no national parity. There are not enough Bošnjak who are tried and who are there to support the punishment for it. So here, Mr. Okolić, is the fact that the Bošnjak, most of all in the BiH Army, have not committed the crimes they experienced in four years of the war in an hour in Srebrenica. In one hour more Bošnjak were killed in Srebrenica than they fought back in the BiH Army for four years of war, you know. That's right. And then that's how it's obvious through the trial. It can't be any different. And you can't make that parity violent, it's for nothing. The court, with 20-30 per cent of Bosniak judges, remains Srbin and Hrvat, international judges and prosecutors. And he'll come to you with this fact that I've just presented, because that's how she is. For the Bošnjak have not made the Srebrenica, nor the Keraterm, you understand, neither the port of Brcko, nor the slaughter in Kozarec, that I may not count any further. They just didn't do it. And you can't force that parity. And so will the Hague tribunal. And that conclusion will be reached to you by the UN, Mr. mazovjetski and so on. That's right. Why is that? I'm proud of that fact that it is. Let them do scientific works, PhDs – politicians, sociologists, historians, etc. But you can't make parity here, it's for nothing. And they don't, and they don't have to be angry with people who have been mass crimes because now they're going to jail mass. They deserve to go to jail even more, and they should.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29004	Replica, Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29005	Well, look, Mr. Izetbegović didn't understand me or he didn't want to understand me. I didn't make at all, and I wanted to parity the number of people tried for crimes committed in the past war. And right away, I'm clear to everyone: anyone who committed a crime of any kind, especially in the war, shall answer for him. And I wasn't talking about the figures of Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak who are either being processed or who will be processed, but I was talking about the application of laws and laws to those people's judgments. That's what I'm talking about. So I'm not talking about a linear number at all, it doesn't matter, let there be a thousand Srbin, three Bošnjak, and I don't know how many Hrvat, it's not a topic or it's controversial. But it is disputed that this thousand Bošnjak are determined by a member of the law... for the same act against Srbin or Hrvat who are being processed or who are being processed. Furthermore, I agree that the crimes were different. It cannot possibly be the same crimes in BiH during the war. But I don't agree with you that only Srbin did it. You listed the crimes committed by Srbin, and you did not list the crimes committed by Bošnjak. Did the Bošnjak commit crimes, or Srbin against Srbin. So I didn't want to open that point at all, nor was that my goal, but here I'm just saying, applying the law to each other isn't the same thing. It is not a member of 181 and 182 which applies to two peoples, and 73, 74 and 75 are the same as that applicable to one nation. That's what I was talking about, and I wasn't talking about the number. And I said, once again, and I'm undermining, 91 anyone who's guilty should be processed and everyone who needs to process it from me will have the support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29006	Replica, Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29007	Well, you didn't talk about numbers, but it is the people you represent, whose right you defend here. They say the Srbin were told a total of 1.118 years in prison, Hrvat 146, and Musliman 41 years in prison. And it is an injustice for which they will strike hunger or boycott the BiH Court or others to decide measures etc. to correct that injustice. They're talking about those numbers.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29008	Let's get back to the press releases. Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29009	The Honorable Chairman, before these people sent the letter that came, and it is good that all MPs came, I, of course, visited them in the capacity of politicians at their invitation, and I just took advantage of the Catholic holiday that people there had Catholic faith – and Srbin if I didn't visit, it doesn't matter – congratulations, with the best intention and a very good thing to do to have a conversation with a friar who visited them there, who is obliged and able and authorized, and allowed him to tell me what kind of troubles I didn't know, to admit. And with a trace of these events, I just want to remind you today. At one of the previous sessions, I asked the Parliament's question precisely on this topic on which Mr. Okolić launched the initiative, and asked the Ministry of Justice, thanking Mr. Minister for having received an answer here, and it was a retroactive application of the law to certain committed crimes at a certain time. So I asked, and I remember correctly, whether BiH was the only country in the world that retroactively applied the laws to committed crimes, and got an answer from the ministry. In part, he was pleased, in part, I did not, and then renewed, so our professional service, which I also thank, and the Secretary of the House, passed the same question to the Constitutional Court, because I also asked them, knowing that they could come into this position, and we would, believe me, be even worse. And you saw on page 1, people don't say, or avoid, or deny being tried, or defend themselves in advance, so they say we're not guilty, we didn't do anything. Anyway, he says, they all wrote unanimously: we're ready to go to the institutions, but we have the same treatment. So it's about the treatment and application of legislation in the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office here in Sarajevo and the Court of BiH and that of the Municipal Court, neither do I, any municipality in BiH. So, that unequivocally applied legislation, not as the Ministry of Justice replied to me, and there was uncertainty, that it was a discretionary right of someone. It may be the discretionary right of a judge who imposes a sentence, so he is left there with the possibility of a criminal act and says it is punishable from four to ten years and that he is adamantly devoting nine. Some of them are going to hit three, because maybe less can, they've made a deal about how it's already going according to our new laws. 92 So what's the point? People didn't say they wouldn't go to court. In that letter you received, and I say, I was the only one who visited them, they only ask that all laws that are related to wartime apply uniformly and apply to all people in this country and to all judicial institutions, regardless of what level, whether they are municipal, cantonal, neither I, county, entity and court of BiH. That's what this is about. That's why the Assembly and someone, here's the Constitutional Court who didn't give a decadent answer, and they're calling for something, that's what used to be. So someone has to answer whether it is possible in this country to apply the legislation and criminal law that has been passed, I say afterwards, after these events at the Court of Justice of BiH, and that the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and the Court here in Sarajevo are subject to laws that were in force during the crime. That's what it's all about, people. Someone's got to clear that up. So, everyone's happy, which is really nebulous now when I say happy, but unfortunately, if the criminal was lucky enough to be arrested by someone from Canton of Sarajevo, because he'll be tried by the laws that were in force, but if he gets caught, by Bog, by the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia, right now they're taking him over from the Court of BiH and they're applying his 2000 criminal law, I don't know that I'm not beating up, two, three, four years for an act of '92. A year. I really want to be clear and decadent to the end. I'm not defending anyone who committed a war crime. And Mr. Izetbegović, at least I told you both privately and in the sessions and as a man I respect, you know I don't like biddings and I even said, the first Srbin on television to watch -- here, most of all, the Bošnjak died. If you haven't followed, let me remind you, some others have listened to that. But Srbin were killed, Hrvat were killed, others were killed. That's not asking for balance, I said in the previous discussion. Well, Mr. Izetbegović, I'm not making a parallel with this or that, but the mother from Prijedor who lost three sons, the situation of the Srpkinja woman, here you have representatives who lost all over the family, so... the tragedies are identical, I'm putting them in the same position of the accident. Now that someone else is looking for the possibility of now accusing us of looking for a balance so that we can compare, say, crimes here and there. Do you know what is the greatest crime for me as an individual, I do not personally address you, what I have done, unfortunately, individuals from your people, but not you, not Mr. Belkić, not Mr. Professor Suljkanović who didn't even know me. Someone did this to me, Mr. Izetbegović, so I can't stand on my feet. Someone's got my kidney. Someone broke six ribs. Someone held me back for 44 months, and the war lasted 42. But this is not my confession here to confess. I'm a victim too, but at least I'm talking about myself. But I beg you, as a man I respect, do not seek Mr. Okolić, here I speak for him, that balance, nor are we looking for a comparison now, and we will now say, here is the fault of all the other Srbin, they are not. Did you ever hear us say that? You've heard from us fair and square to say who committed crimes on behalf of the Serb people, no one should have, in the name of Bog, been allowed to answer. But it's also our right to advocate who committed a crime against my people, hope for me to fight to answer. And that will lead us to reconciliation, that will lead us to understanding, that will bring this country, and no declaration of PIC, no CEC or, I don't know, whatever you want, the abbreviations, call, will unite us. This will unite us when we understand each other. So please, these people were just asking for clarification of the law. They didn't ask to be released there today by that prison warden or can't. They may threaten me not to know what, but they demand that the laws be harmonised at BiH level, which, Minister, is logical. Here's how I'm going to ask you not to go out for a pay phone, what would any man normally advocate: it's not possible that the canton is governed by the laws of one, and in the Court of BiH the other? That's what this is about. That was the point when I asked that 93 question, when I got those answers, when people are complaining next. And in order not to further discuss this, I'm always at least famous for calling for honesty here, if we're honest, and we should be. And a very good teacher just gave me a digression. Professor, I'm not afraid, I'm proud to be sitting in line with you. I'm proud. Of course, I'd love to see you more, but I'm not a member of your party. It's something else. I don't want to go private. Because I appreciate you being the person who contributes to this country moving forward. And I believe I'm fighting just like you on this side. Now I don't know if these in the middle are all helping us, and those in front of me or those behind me, you know. We're not afraid, we don't need to, and when we say we're afraid, it's not fear we're afraid, it's nobody's talking about fear, it's irrational, what kind of fear we've had, but it's afraid of it, whether we're going to cheat on you or you're cheating on us, so nobody's naive, you know. But give what is rational and best for this country. That's why Mr. Živković was right. Take this, let's say, an example if you want, whatever it is you want, let's put this on the agenda sometime and analyze it. So we say, "This is a good thing that we have passed on, so let's fill it with more time to strengthen it; this is a failure; let's make something new, so not everyone who comes from abroad knows less than we do ten times, and everyone lectures me that they are something as smart as I came down from a tree yesterday. We know everything more than they do. _________(?) They're experts. Which experts? If they thought well of us, they wouldn't be messing around here, they'd be letting us work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29011	I'm closing the hearing. I'm out of press releases. We're going to point 16. Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 41a) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures ("the Official Messenger of BiH", No. 37/09/09 – Proposal for a Joint College of both homes So today we realize the obligation arising from this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law, so we set up an Interim Commission which will later implement the selection procedure for the independent commission provided for by this law. We have held some kind of consultation, agreement at the Extended College and we propose to the House that Sead Jamakosmanović, Slavko Matić and Savo Erić be elected in front of our home in the Interim Commission. 94 Any other suggestions? There isn't. Finalising debate on point 16. So we're left with point 17. Ad.17. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in order to try to reach agreement... on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29014	We don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29015	So, here, let me just have two or three notes. So the next session is planned for 16. We have a statement, of course, at five o'clock. Here, the suggestion is that we plead at five o'clock, if that's all right with you. We've got 15 minutes, I think so. So, I'll see you here at 5:00. So the next session is 16. With today's session, I conclude my presidency eight months. I thank you for your cooperation, I thank the service, I thank Branka and I want successful work on this. We're left with a vote. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] Please, take your seats to proceed with the plea. Please take your seats to begin the vote. Mr. Matić, please, we're waiting for you. So we're going to vote procedure. Point 1. Adoption of the minutes of the 58th session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 votes "yes" (25 Federation, 10 RS), two "against", no "remained", a sufficient entity majority. The minutes of the 58th session were adopted. 95 Let's go to point 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity of BiH (second reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 "for" (24 Federation, 10 RS), one "against", two "maintained", we have both the general and entity majority. And I agree that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Immunity Act in the second reading. Let's go to point 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH – Proposers: MPs Sefer Halilović, Vinko Zorić, Mirko Okolić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Denis Bećirović, Velimir Jukić and Adem Huskić (second reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 35 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 11 RS), without the vote "against", two "remained", we have a general and entity majority. I agree that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in the Second Reading. Let's go to point 5. Proposal for a law on free zones in BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 votes "yes" (23 Federation, nine RS), with no "no" votes, five "abstained". I find that this law has been given to the general and entity majority and has been adopted in the first reading. In addition to the law, the Party for BiH MPs' club proposed conclusions. So let me remind you, '1st. In the follow-up procedure, provide the opinion of the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation; 2. Ensure the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration; 3. Recommend to include the Finance and Budget Commission as inadmissible in the follow-up procedure." I hope you got it, but for the record and the stenograms, I read it. ... The party insists because these opinions are very old, the law came in the 7th month, these are opinions of eight or nine months old. We do not know which version of the law and text are given opinions, because there were several versions and we insist that we receive up-to-date opinions. Please, I suggest we make a statement in the package on these three conclusions, they're very simple, they're understandable. Do you agree? So please prepare to vote. Vote now! 96 36 votes "yes" (24 Federation, 12 RS), without the vote "against", one "sustained". I find that the proposed conclusions have been reached by the general and entity majority and adopted. We're going to point six. Proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and co-operation with the International Criminal Court (first reading). Please prepare for the vote, we vote on the law in the first reading. Vote now! 36 votes "yes" (25 Federation, 11 RS), with no "no", one "abstained". I find that the proposal for a law on the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and co-operation with the International Criminal Court was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point 7. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 17 votes "yes" (16 Federation, one RS), six "against", 14 "abstained", we do not have an entity majority. So, expected, we'll agree later, within three days. Let's move on. Moving to point 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecution of BiH (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 votes "yes" (17 Federation, one RS), six "against", 13 "remained", and we also do not have an entity majority from RS. Agreeing within three days. Let's move on, point nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 24 votes "yes" (12 Federation, 12 RS) without a vote "against, 12 "abstained". I find that this law has been given both the general and the entity majority, and was adopted in the first reading. Let's go to point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH – Proposer: MP Adem Huskić (first reading). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 36 votes "yes" (25 Federation, 11 RS), without the vote "against", one "sustained". I find that this law has been given to the general and entity majority, and has been adopted in the first reading. 97 Let's go to point 11. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Receipts in the BiH Institutions (second reading). It's a proposal from the Council of Ministers. As you've seen from the report, we have not reached agreement. We vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! There'll be a listing for everyone, no problem. 30 votes "for" (19 Federation, 11 RS), without the vote "against", seven "abstained". I'm realizing that we're...
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29017	They turned down the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29018	They refused the law. Wait, how?
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29019	This is the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29020	We don't have 10 votes "against", the law is passed, everything is fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29021	Yes, I'm sorry, I wasn't looking... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2009-09-02-0.u29022	It's all right, then, and it's smooth. No, no, it's okay. Well, I was surprised what this is. So, 30 votes "yes" (Federation 19, RS 11), with no "no", seven "abstained". There are no two-thirds of the vote "against" of the law from no entity, the law was passed. No one's against it, here's what we're gonna figure out. Let's go, then, to point 12. We are also voting in the second round: the Commission report from the College on the effort to reach agreement on the request of BiH MPs to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Receipts in BiH institutions under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Also, we haven't reached an agreement. We vote here in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! So it's a request for procedure. E, here is already red: 16 votes "for" (15 Federation, one RS), 12 "against", nine "abstained". We have 11 votes "against", so two-thirds of the entity. And we move on to a statement on the procedure under Article 126, so to speak. 98 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! We have two-thirds of the vote "against", meaning 15 votes "for", 10 votes "against", nine "abstained", one-third of the vote "against" from the RS entity. The law has no consent. So, in the second round of voting. So we voted on a shortened procedure. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 16 votes "for", 11 "against", 10 "abstained" – 11 "against" from RS, so two-thirds of the law goes into regular procedure. Moving to point 13. Appointment of members of the BiH Regulatory Agency (the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH). For members of the Board of Regulatory Agency are proposed: Boškvić Slobodan, Topić Tanja, Đidić Miroslav, Medić Angela, Hadžiahmetović Mahir, Halilović Mehmed and Šehić Vehid. We therefore declare ourselves on the proposal of the members of the Regulatory Agency Council. Prepare to vote. Vote now! I hope the Commission's report helps, so it's not binding. 14 votes “for, ” 15“ against. ” So, I figure it wasn't, like, almost, I thought, just saying a little bit, so almost. Okay. So, I find that we have not adopted and appointed the Board of Regulators, 14 were votes "for", 15 "against", seven "abstained". Let's go to point 14. A statement on the initiative of the SNSD Club MPs regarding the discussion at the House's session Information on the effects (normal, regulatory and institutional benefits) of legal solutions which have transferred competences from entities to the level of joint bodies in BiH. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Now it's going to be a business intervention, I haven't read it. I'm sorry, I skipped one word, drago, but. 14 votes "for", 17 "against", four "abstained". I find that there is no support for this initiative, there is no general majority. Let's go make a statement about 15. A statement on MP Mirko Okolić's initiative regarding the discussion at the House of Dot session: "A consideration of the citizens' group's initiative on the founding of the conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial authorities regarding the processing of war crimes at the time of the tragic war conflict on BiH territory". So, get ready to vote on this initiative. Vote now! I'm sorry, I was wrong. So I ask you to repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. 99 Vote now! 17 votes "for"(six Federations, 11 RS), 16 "against", four "abstained". So we don't have the entity majority of the Federation, so the second round, there's no consent. We vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 votes "yes", 16 "against", three "abstained" – "for" from Federation seven, 15, there are no two-thirds of the votes "against", there is no 19, so this initiative has passed. So let's go to point 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 41a) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (the Official Journal of BiH), No. 37/09/09 – Proposal for a Joint College of both homes. So it is about the election of Sead Jamakosmanović, Slavko Matić and Sava Erić... to the Interim Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 33 votes "yes" (21 Federation, 12 RS), one "against", three "maintained". I agree that, with the general and entity majority, we chose Sead Jamakosmanović, Slavko Matić and Sava Erić in the Interim Commission. So we're left with point 17. Having three members from the Commission's House of Representatives in order to achieve agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Act. We proposed Sadik Bahtić, Martin Raguž and Željko Kuzmanović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 31 votes "for" (20 Federation, 11 RS), one "against", three "maintained". I agree that we chose Sadik Bahtić, Martin Raguž and Željko Kuzmanović for the alignment. So, I thank you again. The šesnaesti is the next session, to be chaired by Mr. Živković. Thank you. The seat's finished at 5:17.
